The present application is directed to methods of producing white or colourless
keratin products. The claims define colourless hydrogel compositions comprising
keratin proteins which do not require additional biomaterials to maintain structure.
Methods of production include obtaining a keratin protein source, subjecting the
keratin protein source to bleaching agents and oxidising agents and then extracting
keratose or kerateine from the source.

WO 2014/074591                                                                PCT/US2013/068724
                             WHITE KERATIN COMPOSITIONS
                                 FIELD OFTEJNVENTION
   1F   This invention relates to conpositionis of white keratin. protein-based biomateis and
methods of mainn thereon
                            BACKGROUND> OF THE NVENTION
[0f2]   Keratins are a family of proteins found in the hair, skin, and other issues of
vertebrates    Hair is a unique source of bunian keratins because it is one of the few human
tissues that are readily available and inexpensive,      Although other sources of keratins are
accept feedstocks for the prenI ietion feg                ,     thorns, hooves, beaks, feathers
                                                              fr;
scales and the like      human hair is preferred because of its blocampatiby in human
rnedica applicatons,
[003] Keratins can be extracted from haman har fibers by oxidation or reductousing
miethods that have been widely published in the at. If one;employs a reductive treatment, the
resulting keratins are referred to as kerateines, If an oxidative treaten  t 4, used, the resulting
keratins are referred to as keratoses. These methods typically emoy a two-step process
whereby the crosslinked structure of keratins is broken down by either oxdtnu         or red uction.
in these reactions, the disulfide bonds in cystine amino acid residue are cleaved rendering
the keratis soluble without appreciable disruption of amide bonds. Many of the ratdns can
remain tra pped within the cu ces protective structure, so a second-step using a denaturing
      on      typically employed to effect efficient extraction of the xortcal proteins
(alternatiVely, in the case of oxidation reactions, these steps can be coiabinedThi st'ep has
ahso been widely publshed in the art as solutions such as urea, transition metal hydroxides,
srfacnt     so1Autions, and combinations thereof have been employe.            Common methods
employ the use of aqueous solutions of trisowdroxymethyi) aminomethane in concentrations
bertween D and LM, and urea solutions between 0, and IOM,
[004]   When oxidation is selected as the extraction method of choice, strog oxidants are
used to cleave the cystine amino acid and solubilize the keratin proteins, A pref-rred oxidant
is peracetic acid. Penetic ai &CECOOOH) hydrolyzes into acetic acid (CHCOOH) and
hdroen peroxide           0t    it also undergoes ho.molysis to produce peroxy& (CH3COO';
CH3COOO~), hydrogen (H ), and hydroxyl (0") radicals. Hydroxyl radicals are very strong
oxidizing agents due to their high standard reduction potential (2310 mn V). When reacted with
1H0 proteins decompose into fragnents wih carbonyl groups (C-Z)                in the presence of

WO 2014/074591                                                                 PCT/US2013/068724
 oxygen (Qt) and a small fraction forms protein aggregates via cross-linking, Both of these
 degraded and cross inked forms are observed in keratose samples, Aside from oxidation of
cystine, peraceti    acid (most likely through the action of hO1 and H2Oh) also reacts and
modifies other amino acids of the protein chain. The fee thiols (-SH) of cystines are
conveyed to sulfenic acid, (SOH)- which are further oxidized into sulinic (SOdH)                and
 suilfonic acid derivatives.
 [(ow5    The abjlity to form a polymerized hydrogel is an important feature in biomaterals
 used as scaffolds for cels, agents tbr dmg delivery' or constructs to promote cell infltration
and tissue remodeling        H ydrafion of iyophilized keratose materials generally yields the
 formation of an elastic scid-ike hydrogel at high solute concentrations (200 mg/h in PBS
or sterile HE). Rheological properties of these ge        as well as their chemistries indicate that
the primary mechanism of gelation is through polymer chain entanglement, Oxidation of free
thiols eliminates the ability of oxidized keratins to reassemble via. covalent disulfide bonding,
Instead, other gelaion determinant factors may include electrostatic and hydrophobic
interacton. Keratin muithmers may form a larger network through electrostatic attraction as
suggested in the assembly of intermediate filament molecules in which the head (positive)
and the tail (negative) domains of dimers potentially associate to torm a retramer. The
negativeiyacharged suifonic acid groups can also interact with the basic amino acid residues
such as lysine, arginine, and histidine that escaped oxidation, Additionally, the coil regions of
keratins that are rih in hydrophobic sequees ,may aggregate together to increase the
polymer molecular weight and promote gelation
[006] fair bleaching
V(007]   Compounds liberating active oxygen, or oxidizhng agents, nave long been utilized in
bleaching hair, The main examples of such oxidizing agents are               ydrogen peroxide or
percarbamide, alkali metal perborate such as sodium perborate, melamine perhydrate, or
alkali metal percarbonates, optionally with alkali metal persulte addition. However, this
oxidavive treatment of the hair not only bleaches the hair pigment, but also is iniurious to the
fibrous material of the hair. Evidence of this damage can be fifund in the numerous physical
and chemical ateratiorns in the hair, of which the most conspicuous are impairmnent of texture
and shine of the hair, increased brittleness. especially breaking of the hair ends, reduction in
resistance to splitting and increased alkali solubility of the hair.
    I]   PreviosLy described coinpositions of keratose and kerateine compositions have been
reported, However, the dried extracts of keratose and karate ine are genernIlly brown and do
not appeal to manufacturers of products meant for use by the ordinary consumer. The brown
                                                 2

WO 2014/074591                                                               PCT/US2013/068724
 Color is.otIen associated with the notion that the product is dirty or not pure. To Combat this
 assumption, manufacturers ofen need to add colorants or other additives to change or
 augment the color of products made with extracted keratose or kerateine, Accordingly, there
 is a great need to porepar compositions of keratose and kerateine that are whtr     cloless
 but also retain the physcOcheiuCal properies that make kernatose and kerateine suitable
 miateris for consumer products.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [009]1 Disclosed herein are compositions ot white or Colorless keratinthased hiomateriais
 and methods of making and using suCh keratin       sed biomaterials fi various purposes,
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 [00101 Fgure I depicts the coior of white keratose versus standard keratose. Presented in A
 ia     same of kerarose that was purified from bkeached human hair (white keratose)
Presented in B is a sample of keratin purified from non-bleached human hair standardd
keratose). Sample A exhibits a white color while Sample B exhibits a brown color. Other
than the bleaching of hair prior to purification of Sample A, both samples were subiected to
similar methods of keratose extraction with slight variations.,
  0011" Fire 2 dpict the gel foringprpertes of samples of white kerarose and standard
keratose. Presented in A is a sample of a 5% protein solution of white keratose which foms
a hydrogel as exhibited by the bead present when the sample is spotted onto the paper.
Presented in B is a sample of a 10% protein solution of white keratose which forms a
hydrogel as exhibited by the bead present when the sample is sp'otted onto the paper.
Presented in C is a sample of a 15% protein solution of white keratose which          .torms   a
hydrogel as exhibited by the bend present when the sample is spotted onto the paper.
[00121 Figure 3 depicts the linear viscoelastic region comparison of white keratose and
standard keratose samples,      Presented in the graph are the results of the comparison of
standard keratose (U) and white keratose (         , As the stress is increased at a constant
trequency of 1Hlz. both samples demonstrated stable storage moduli, Additionally, both
samples exhibited a crtical drop in moduli at similar strains. However, the white keratose
exhibited a lower modulus than the standard keratose sample at all strains tested below the
critic al drop strain.
[0031 Figure 4 represents the results from a Cole-Cole comparison of white and standard
keratose. Presented in the graph are the results of the comparison of standard keratose (R
                                                3

WO 2014/074591                                                              PCT/US2013/068724
 and white keratose ( ).        The white keratose sawple exhibited lower viscous and elastic
 modui versus the standard keratose.        These results suggest that white keratose hair has
 greater viscoelastic properties than the standard keratose.
 [0014} Figure 5 represents the comparison of the viscoelastic properties of keratose extracted
 frotm bleached or nonlbeached hair. Presented in the graph are the mapping of viscoelastic
 properies of standard keratose (M) and white keratose (+), Increasing phase angle defines a
 more eastic sample, while increasing complex modulus means that the, sample is becoming
 more viscus, Both keraiose samples exhibited stable viscosities.          However, the white
 keratose was more viscous than standard keratose.
 [00151 Figure 6 represents an SDS-PAGE analysis of white and standard keratose. Various
concentrations of white keratose (lanes 3,4, and 5) and standard keratose (lanes 7.8 and 9)
 were loadeod onto an SDS-Pa'ge get at 25pglane (lnes 3 nand 6', 5e plane (lanes 4 and 7)
and 100 kg/lane (anes 5 and 8).         As depicted, the white and standard keratose samples
exhibited similar staining pattems when subjected to SDS~PkAE analysis.
 [0016] Figure 7 represents a Size Exclusion Chromatography (SEC) analysis or white and
standard keratose, Presented in A is the tracing of a sample of white keratose     The keratose
sample in A demonstrates a single peak on SEC analysis. Presented in B is the tracing of a
sample of standard keratose, The keratose sample in B demonstrates a single pecak on SEC
analysis. Both samples exhibit sinnlar profiles when subjected to SEC analysis.
                                   DETAILED SCRIPT ION
Tennitnology
[0017]"Keratin       protein source" as used herein includes proteinaceoius sources of keratin
proteins imluding hut not limited to human or animal wool, fur horns, hooves, beaks.
feathers soaks, and the like,
(0018~"Keratin proten(sY as used herein collectively refers to keratin in keratin protein
sources, including but not limited to naturally occurring keratin, reduced keratin, and/or
oxidized keratin, or S-sultonated keratin. This term also refers to the extracted keratin
derivatives that are produced by oxidative and/or reductive treatment of keratin, including but
not limited to keratose, alphaeratose. gamma-keratose. kerateine            aipha-erateine, or
  garmma-keratecino.
Keratin protein sogrge
 '00191 Keratins are a family of proteins found in the hair, skin, and other tissues of
vertebrates, Hair is a common source of human keratins because it is one of the few human
                                                 4

WO 2014/074591                                                                PCT/US2013/068724
   materials that are ready available and inexpensive. Other sources of keratins are acceptable
 ftedstocks for the present invent,       (e ., wool, far, hors. hooves, beaks, feathers, scales,
 and the tike). Human hair is often used with human subjects because of its biocompatibility.
 Accordingly, in. somn odiments, human hair is the keratin protein soure The human hi
 can be end-cut, as one would typically find in a barber shop or salon
 Hair bleachian techniques
 [020), Compounds liberauing ativ- oxygen or oxdizing agents, have long been utilized in
 bleaching hair. The main examples of such oxidizing agents are hydrogen peroxide or
 pe~rcarbuaide. alkali metal perforate, such as sodium perborate. melamine perhydrate, or
 aIkali metal percarbonates, optionally with alkali metal persulfiate addition, Accordingly, in
 some embodiments, the bleaching comnpound is hydrgen peroxide,
 [0021J The degree of bleaching is related to the concentration of bieaching agent used.        r
 example, a hydrogen peroxide solution ranging from about 0,2% to about 10% may be used
 to bleach the keratin protein source. The degree of beaching is related to the time exposed to
the bleaching agent. For example, the keratin protein source may be exposed to a hjeaching
agent anywhere ffrom 2 min to 10 hours,
Keratin proteins
 [0022] Soluble kerains can be extactd from human hair fibers by oxidation or reduction
using meahods known in the art. These methods typically employ a two-step process whereby
  te crossfinked structure of keratins is broken down by either oxidation or reduction. In these
reactions, the disuilide bonds in cystine amino acid residues are cleaved, rendering the
keratins soluble. The cuticle is essentially unaffected by this treatment, so the majority of the
keratins remin trapped within the cuticle s protective structure        In order to extract these
keratin, a second step usig a denaturing souion is employd. Afternatively, in the case of
reduction reactions, these steps can be combined, Denaur ing solutions known in the art
include urea, transition metal hydroxides, surfactant solutions., and combinations thereof,
Common methods use aqueous solutions of tris base (2Amino-2}hydroxymethyl>
propanediofi in concentrations between 0,       and 1M0    , and urea solutions between 0.1 and
 10M, for oxidatio and reduction reactions, respectively.
[0023] If one employs an oxidative treatment, the resulting keratins are referred to as
"keratoses." If a reductive treatment is used         the resulting keratins are retired to as
"kerateines:"
[0024] Crude (unfractionated      extracts of keratins. regardless of redox state, can be further
refined into matrix Keratin Associated Proteins ("KAP") and gamma, alpha, and/or charged
                                                 5

WO 2014/074591                                                                PCT/US2013/068724
  (acidic or basic fractions by a variwty of methods such as iscectric precipitation, dialysis, or
  high peformance liquid            thmatography (HPLC), as desred. In a cruee extract, the alpha
  faction begins to prcipitate below pH 6 and is essentiafly completely precipitated by p114,2
  10025] In some embodiments, KAP co-precipitate with the alpha traction, therby prolcing
 an alphaKAP mixture,
  [00261 High moleular weight keratins, or "alpha ke atps(lpha helical) are thought to
 originate from the microfibrillar regions of the hair fincie, and typically range in molecnar
 weight from about 4085 kicDahons (kDa.               Low molecular weight keratins, or 'gamma
 keratins< or keratin-associated proteins globall        are thought to originate fom the matrix
 regio's   of t«,he hair f-cle, land typically range-, in molecular              from abot 3-30
 kiloDaltons for KAP and 1045 kiloDaltons for gamma keratins
 [0027] In some embodiments, the keratin preparations (particularly alpha-keratose or alpha
 keraieine) have average monomeric molecular weights of fron about 45 to about 70 klDsa
 Gamnma-keratoses and Gamma-kerareines have average molecular weights between 10 and 25
 kDa and form complexes with alpha keratins. The alpha keratins extrwted and describe
 herein exist as obligate heterodimers that are compiexed alpha keratin monomers with higher
 average molecular weights, eg, up to 100 or 200 or 300 or 400 or 50 or 600 or 700 or 800
 or 900 or 1000 kDa, These combinations when complexed (e g alpha keratose gamma
 keratose,   alpha kerat-ine,      amma       kerateine or combinations thereof)      are termed
 "mtetakeratins".
 [00281 Even though apha and gamma keratins possess unique properties, the properties of
 subfamilies of both alpha and gamma keratins can only be revealed through more
sophisticated means cf purification and separation such as provided herein. Additional
properties that are beneficial emerge and can be optimized upon further separation and
puriication of crude keratin extracts.
Kra eProduction
[00291 One method for the production of keratoses is by oxidation of keratin with hydrogen
peroxide, peracetic acid, or perfOrm ic acid. In a speciic embodiment, the oxidant is peracetc
acid. Generally, a solution of peracetic acid is used at a concentration range of about 1% to
about 10% A specific conceitraton used can be a 2% solution of peracetic acid, nin          some
embodiments, the oxidant concentratons range from a ratio of about 5:1 to about 50,1 weight
to weight to the keratin protein source to be extracted. A specific embodiment uses a weight
to weight ratio of 30;i of a 2% perancetic acid solution. 'Those skilled in the ar will recognize
that sliAht modifications to the concentration can be made to affect varying degrees of
                                                    6

 WO 2014/074591                                                                   PCT/US2013/068724
oxdation, with coolant aherations in reaction time temperature, and liquid to solid ratio.
Pertrmic acid may ofTr the advantage of minimal                 peptide bond    leavage compared to
per-aceti aid. However, peracetic a            w
                                              .d
                                              esthe     advantage of      zost
                                                                            and a       b       in some
embodimets the oxidation temperat ure is between 0 and                    0) Ceisius, I a specific
enbodinment the oxidation temperature is 37*,          In somie emibodimnts the oxidation time is
beween (5 and 24 hours.. In a specific embodimet, the oxidaton time is 12 hours. in soe
emNbodments, mechanical mixing is used to            x     miz xi&tio etic'ency, Additonal yied
can be achieved with subsequent extractions with dilute solutions of oxidant, or water. Are
oxidation, the keratin pirtin source can be rnsed free of resiual oxidant using purified
water. In some embodinients, the oxidized keratin                 source is washed with water until
residua oxidant is removed.b In someo emodimtsect           the washingrl step is performed until the
washed keratin protein source does not test positive tor oxidant,
{0030] The keratoses may be extracted from the oxidized keratin protein. source using an
aqueous solution of a denatiring agent. Protein denaturants are well known                      the ar
including but not      cited to, urea, transition metal hydroxids (e r sodiu           and potassium
hydroxide k.ammoni um hy'droxide. and trshdoyehlaioehn                              (Tis, also known
as Trima@ base), n some embodinents, Iris is used at a ratio of about 5;1 to about 50;
weight of protein source, to a Tris solution of a concentration of about 0,01 to IN.                In a
specific embodiment, the ratio is 25:L         na another specific embdent,  nw      Tris is used at a
concentration of 00nm.,       Those skiled in the art wi recognize hat slight modifications to
the concentration can be made to effect varying degrees of extraction,              with concomitant
alterations in reaction time, temperature, and liquid to solid ratio. In some e>mbodments, the
extracton temperature is between 0* and 100' C, In a specific embodiment. the extraction
temperature is 37 C, In some embodimnerts, the extraction time is between 0,5 and 24 hours,
In a specific en-bodiment, the extraction time is about 2 hours, Addional yield can he
achieved with subsequent extractions with diluie solutions of Tris or purified water              Often,
the extraction is performed with mechanical agitation in a mixing tank to ensure a more
efficient yIld.
Ke,rateine r-ottuorton
[003 1] Similar to the methods described above for extraction and purification of keratoses,
kerareines can he produced by reduction of a keratin protein source with thioglycoric acid or
beta-mercatthani           Specificay, ~ t i9oglyxscolie acid (TGCA)      is ofen used,       i    some
embodiments, TGA is aded to the keratin protein source at a ratio of about5; to about 50;,1.
In a specific embodiment, TGA is added at a ratio of 25:1, The TGA is added at a solution

WO 2014/074591                                                               PCT/US2013/068724
 ranging in concentrations from about 0 1 to about I(IM. in a species embodiment the TGA
 is added in sohuon at a concentration of M,5M         During extraction mechanical agtai:oni
 used to maxim ize extraction etficicncy.
 [00321 The solution containing reductret      and extracted kerateine proteins (Soluble keratin
 protein soutItion) is collected and stored by straining the keratin pesource through. a 400
 micron nesh and storing the solution at 4' C. A base is then added to the drained keratin
 protein source in a ratio of about 10A to about 50:.       in a specific embodiment; the base is
 added to the drained keratin protein source at a ratio of 25:1. In some embodiments the base
 is Tris general used at a concentration of about 100 mM, The keratin protein source in the
 solution with base is mixed with agitation of about 2 hours at 37 C The solution containing
 the base and extracted keratin proteins (soluble keratin protein solution) is then filtered
through a 400mm mesh screen then added to the first extracted solution and stored.
  .0033] Those skied in the art 'will reogne thaslight modificaows            tthe concentration
can be made to effect varying degree of reduction, with concomtant ahterations in pH,
reaction time, temperature, and liquid to solid ratio. In some embodiments, the reduction is
performed at a temperature between 0 and 100' C In a specific embodiment, the temperature
is 37C In some. e.mbodiments the reduction time is between 0.5 and 24 hours, ina speci fc
embodiment, the reduction is performed for S hours. Unlike the previously described
oxidation reaction, reduction is carried out at basic pH. Keratins are highly soluble in a
reduction media and are expected to be extracted The reduction solution may therefore be
combined with the subsequent extraction solutions and processed accordingly. Additional
yield can be achieved with subsequent extractions with dilute solutions of Tris or purified
water.       r         tons cared out with mechanical agitation in a nixing tank to increase the
efficiency of the reduction of the keratin proteins.
[0034 Residual reductant and denaturing agents can be removed from solution by dialysis.
Typical dialysis conditions are I to 2% solution of kerateines dialyzed against purified water
Those skilled in the art will recognize that other methods exist for the removal of ow
molecular weight contaminants in addition to dialysis (e.g. microfiitration, chromatography.
and the like). Once dissolved, the kerateines are stable in solution without the denaturing
agent tor tinite periods Therefore, the denaturing agent can be removed without the resultant
precipitation of kerateines. Regardless of the fractionationipurification process, the resulting
kerateines can be concentrated and lyophilized, similar to keratoses.
[0035] A soluble keramin protein solution is produced by the erection of kertose ador
kenrteine by either oxidative means for keratose. or by reductive means br kerateine
                                                 8

 WO 2014/074591                                                               PCT/US2013/068724
I-ig lseddtgmrai
  [f036] In order to remove manv of tihekratin associated proteins and otner prteonis
extracted through eiher oxidative or reductive processes listed above, a               igh speed
centrifugation step is used, Current methods known in the art generally use a low speed
centrifugation (around 4j)0 rpn to clear parlate matter. However, this speed does not
crat enough frce to remove many of the beta keratin protein contaminan t present in then
extrcted protein solutiort       Thus, in some embodimets, high speed centrifugation is
employed.     Speeds in excess of about 5,000 rpm to abot 30,000 rpmmcan be used.            In a
specific embodiment, the extracted protein solution is spurt at about 20,000 rpm to produce a
clarified protein solution of solubilized keratin proteins. Another specific embodiment, the
high speed cntrifgation step is performed at about 4' C,
[00371 A clarified protein solution is produced by the high speed cenrifugaton and fitraion
of the soluble kerati protein s-olution.
Diatvsis
[0038] in many instances during protein purification,ddysis is used to separae or even to
concentrate certain protein species present in th        sample.,   Accordingy here, in many
embodiments, the clarifiedd protein solution is snige    d to a dialyss step to fwcionae certain
protein specees.    I somre embodinments. a 100 KDa molecular w1igt ctoffmembrane is
employed in the purification of apha4eratose or adpha-kerateine,        r,      ebodients, a 5
kDa molecular weight cutoff membrane is employed to purfy garnma-keranose or gamma
kerateinA common matri for the dialysis mrembranes is regenerated collose, however,
many other meihrane preparations suitable for protein purification may he used.
[0039] In many instances, prsure is applied to aid in the dialysis process        if the pressure
applied is too low the resultant solutions contain greater protein fiagments and peptides
Conversely,   if the pressure
            embodiments,  the isbtoo(high,
                               d iay       the result
                                                  ' is protein complex degradation       Thus, in
some em  cbodiments        he dialyss    is performed     under    conditions that ,maintain a
transnembrane pressure from about 30 to about 70 psi. in some embodimnts the
transmembrane pressure is about 30 to about 40 psi. in others it Is about 60 to about 70 psi,
Further, it is important to minimize the heat buikup developed by the shear stress of
pressurized dialysis. Thtusin som e enmbodiments, the dialysis Is carried out at a temperature
from about 4C to about 20 C In a specific embodiment, the dialysis is canied out at about
                                                 9

WO 2014/074591                                                                  PCT/US2013/068724
 [00401 Additionally, as the solution is dialyzed, the conductivity is adIusted.            In some
 embodiments, the conducivity is adjusted down to aNout or below 0.6           IS,in some instances;
 the conductivit is adjusted with water.
 [00-41 Storage of proteins for any length of time can pose stability p             s Since proteins
 arc generally more stable at colder temperatures, maintenance at low temperatures even for
 short duration is recommended        Typically, proteins can be freze-'dried (yophilized) to
 achieve storage conditions while maintaining protein stability.
 {0042] In some embodiments, lyophilization is used to produce a protein cake of purifed
protein.   The Jyophiization is used to stabilize the extracted keratin proteins,          Methods
 known in the art such as shell freezing followed by vacuum or bulk freezing and applying
high heat tend .o degrade proteins, Accordingly, in some emabdients a keratin protein
cake. comprising keratose alpha or gamma and/or kerateine alpha or gamma is produced by a
 Ivophilizaion of a clarified keratin protein solution, optionaltly afler dialysis.
 [0041 fin some embodiments, the clarifed protein solution postidialysis is bulk frozen at
about -4W C. and then a vacuum is applied until the containment containing the solution
reaches about 250 Torr, In some embodiments, heat is then applied in a step wise Nshion,
swinging the material to about 0 C, then to about 25* C, then to about 37 C, whie
maintaining 250 Torr pressure In sone enboditnents, the lyophilization process occurs over
a 24 hour period
[0044] Precise grinding of the lyophilized material aids in the homogeneity of reconstitution
and protein stability. Previous methods involve crude grinding methods, including grindi
or chopping of the material in a aIoratory blender.              In the present invention some
ermbodiments em ploy a commercial grinding apparatus to machine the material to a
homogenous particle size. In some embodiments, a phamnaceutical mill is employed, In
other embodiments, the patticle size is about 1000 microns or less in diameter,
[0045] It is also innportant to remove the static charge from the ground materials make it
easier to work with,      Accordingly, in sone enmbodiments, the ground material has been
deionizcd,
flvrogel .pepgaration
[00461 Hydrogels were prepared for analysis by carefullyweighing the appropriate keratin
iyophibred   powder or powders' The powders were diluted in eitler sterile phosphober
                                                10

WO 2014/074591                                                                  PCT/US2013/068724
 saline or sterile water to generate the described percent mass to volume ratio These solutions
 were placed in a    370 C incubator fbr 30-90 min before analysis,
 [0047] In somek> emodients tth hydroelfcoprises less than 20% protein i a weight to
 volume ratio, in other mbodiments the hydroges comprise less than 19% protein, less than
 18%. less than 17%, less than             less than 1%,'
                                                        I6%mless than 14% les than 13%, less than
 12%, less than 11%            t aess      than than 9%, less than 8% loss than 7%. less than 6%
 hess than 5%      ess than 4'   protein. or less than 3% in a weight to volume   tio.
 [0048] in other embodimentis the hydrogel conprises about 2%, abot 3% about 4%, about
 5%, about 6%, about 7,         about 8%. about 9%, abom 10%, about I1%, about 12%, about
 13%. about 14%. about 15% about 16%. about 17%, about 18%, or about 19% protein in a
 weight to volume ratio, in other     enbodiments; the ypses                  2%, 3%, 4%, 5%. 6%,
 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13% 14%                                   %
                                                   I5%, 16% 17% 18      , or 1% protein in a weight
to volume rafio,
 [0049] n some embodiments, the hydrogeli may comprise 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 99% or
more keratoses          T Cteratos       may' be alphakeratose or gammalkeratose, or some
comnation thereof i In sonme embodiments, the keratose in the hydroel comprises 50%
 55%, 60%. 65%, 70%, 75% 80% 85%, 90%, 95% 99% or more alpha- keratose, in other
embodinents, the hydrogel com rises 50% 5%                 60%, 65% , 70%, 7.5; 80% 85%. 90%,
        9       or m~ore gamnma-keraos-,
              99%                                    In alternate      bodimts, the hydrog        s
substantialy free of gamma-keratose. In some etbodiments the hydrogen is substantially
free of kerat e ine. In other embodiments, keratose-based hydrogels are substantially free of
disufide bonds,
[0050] In som ebodiments, the hydrog                 may comprise 80%. 85%. 90%, 95%, 99% or
more keratn            The kerateine may be alpha-kerateine or gamma-erateine. or some
combiation theremif In some embodiments, the kerateine in the hydrogel comprises 50%,
55%, 60%, 6%          7%    75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 9% or more alpha~ kerateine. In other
embodimems, the hydrogel comnprises 50%%,                  60%, 65%, 70% 75% 80%, 85% 90%,
95%, 99% or more gamna                  temne. In alternative embodiments, the hydrogel is
substantially free of gammnakeratcine, in other embodiments, the hydrogel is substantially
free of alpha or gamma keratose,
[0051] In yet other embodiments, the hydrogels described herein present similar gelation and
.stabiity properties of gels          higher         engage promin concentration than have been
previously reportedI        In some embodiments, composites of the invention comprise
                                                     ilI

WO 2014/074591                                                                 PCT/US2013/068724
hydrogels of less than 20% protein that exhib        similar gelation and/r stability properties
thani hydroges reported in the art tht iomprnie 20%or iore protein. In other embodiments,
compositions of the invention comprise hydrogels of iess than 20% protein that exhibit
           Station ad/or stabilit properties than hydrogek reported in the art that comprise
20% or more protein
[00521 In other embodiments, methods of the inventio conmprse making hydrogels of less
than 20% protein. Preparing a hydrogel is described above by rmay comprise the following
steps: a) providing keratose, kerateine. or a combination thereof, at a concentration of less
than 20% weight to volume in an aqueous medium; h mixing said keratose;, kerateine, or a
combination thereof in said aqueous medium; and c) allowing the hydrogel to form.
Sometimes the keratose kerateine, or a combination thereof has previously been lyophiiized,
Also, the keratose, kerateine or a combination thereof is provided as a ground protein
powder
10053] in yet other embodiments, methods of the invention comprise making hydrogeIs of
less than 20% protein with slurries of keratose, kerateine or a mixture thereof that have not
been subjected to tyophilirann           For example, prior to yophiization, methods ot the
invention may inchde forming a hydro'gei with a slurty, material retained within the dialysis
membrane, material recovered from low-speed centrifugation, or material recovered from a.
fi' ltrton step,
[0054] Also, the hydrogels described herein do not require additional biomaterials or added
crossiinkers to create or .maintain structure      Thus, the compositions presented herein arc
substantially free of added biomaterials or crosslinkers             Such biomateriais and or
crosslinkers inlude, uNit  are not limited to: albumin, (hydroxyethyl)starch poyaspartamide
poly(vinyl alcohol)     hyaluronic     A     aginate, chitosan             e    atin; fibrin. silk
poly(ethylene glycol) (aka PDE), poly(actic acid) (aka PLA)p               a        -          aid)
(aka    PLGA)     poly(glycolic   acid) (aka PGA)        poly(dioxanone).poly(aprolacetone)
poly(PCPP-SA anhydride), poly(2~hydroxythyl methacrylate) (ak                 pHEMA,       detmran,
dextran ol us glycidyimethacrylate (DM"NA), codetndilolIponaivehnlm
(DOPE) and other catatonic           ipids farming nanoparticles,     calcium    sulphates    (hone
powders/pastes),    giutaraldehyde,     Iethy[&(3-dimethylaminopropyi)        carbodiimidc)     (aka
EDC), methylenebisacrylamide, hexaethylenediisocyamae, 1,4-bisfacryloybpiperazine,                4
cyelohexanedimiethanol     divinyl ether, 1,4-phenylenediacryloyi      chdorde, L6-hexanediol
diacrylate; N-i hydroxy2,2-dirnethoxvethyw)acryanmide,          di(ethylene glycol) diacrylate,
diethyiene       gyo)dimethecryae             ethyene    glycol   diacryiate,    ethylene    glycol

WO 2014/074591                                                             PCT/US2013/068724
 dimethacrylate. divinlenzne,         genipin or other Commflon biomateriala or crosslinking
 agents or agents that are used to bolster structure known in the art. Additional hydrogel
 forming compositions are described in US, Parent No. 5,854,382.
                                 SPECIFIC EAJMBOMMENTS
 [0055] In particular, the compossion disclosed herein Wil comprise keratose kerateine or a
 combination thereof wtterein said composition is white. The composition may be
 substantially free of gamnmankeratose or gammawkerateine. When sohhilized in a sotverthe
composition may form a colortess solution. The composition may torm a hydrogel at a
protein concentration of 15%t or less, or 10% or less, Said hydrogen may be colorIss The
hydrogel ay be formed between about 25* C and about 370 C The hydrogel may be stable
at about 25* C to about 370 C. The hydrogel may comprise at least 90% or more keratose.
Such a hydrogel may besubstaniall free of kerateine, and may be substantially free of
disulfide bonds. Alternatively, the hydrogen may comprise at least 90% or more kerateine,
Such a bydroel nmay be substamtialy fee of keratose.
[0056} in particular, the composition disclosed herein will compise keratose, keratene or a
combination thereof, wherein said composition is white, The composition may be
substantially free of gamma-keratose or gamma-erateine, When solubiized in a solvent, the
composition may form a colorless solution. The comosition may form a hydrogen at a
protein concentration of 5% or less, or I 0% or less. Said hydrogei may be colorless. The
hydrogen may be formed between about 25' C and about 370 C, The hydrogen omy be stable
at about 25* C to about 37 C. The hydrogel may comprise at least 90% or more keratose
Such a hydrogel may be substamtially mee ofkenatene, and may be substantially free of
disulfide bonds . .Altermatively. the hydrogel may comprise at least 90% or more kerateine,
Such a hydrogel may be substantially free of keratose
[005 7] Also disclosed herein is a method of making a composition comprising keratose
kerateinieor a combination thereof said method comprising:
            a, bleaching a keratin protein source; and
            b. exrcin       eatose. keateine. or at combination thereof wherein said resultant
                 conposition is white.
[0058] The composition formed by this method may resul in a hydrogel at a protein
concentration of less than 15%. The keratin source for thte method may be hair, in pairticudar
humman hair.
                                               .13

WO 2014/074591                                                              PCT/US2013/068724
 [00591 The method may further comprise mechanical agitation of the keratin protein source.
The method may also comprise a high speed centriugration step, and/or a dialysis step, and/or
a lyophiliTation s      The composition produced by the method may be in powder form,
 [0060] Ti                   med b this method may rult in a hydrogen at a protein
concentration of less than 15%, The keratin source fbr the method may be hair, in part icular
human hair. The method may fuirlher comprise mechanical agitaion of the keratin protein
source, The method may also compose a high speed centrifuigation step, and/or adialysis
stenp au/or a lyophilizaon step, The composition produced by the method may he in
powder form.
                                            EXAMPLES
Example I - Preparation of White Keratose
[006 I]' Human hair is washed, dried, and cut into 03 - 0 in pieces, 48oz (3x16oa buckets)
 o,f C  la Basic White Extra Strength PowderLighten         was adddt    a lga pat 96oz of
Salon Care 20-Volume C'lear Developer was added to the powder, and the mixture was
stirred with a plastic paddle until all the powder lightener was dissolved and a paste was
formed, A 500g bag of hair clippings was manually sprinkled ito the lightener and
developer paste while mixing to ensure even coverage, Clunps were manually broken up if
found, The mixture was then inspected to verify that all hair was Qoated and that no clumps
of hair remained The mixture was moved to a fume hood for a 40 minute processing t,
Alter 40 minutes. the mixture was removed from the hood, and water was added to the pail to
stop the bleaching nation and to begin the rinse cycle. The clippings, bleaching mixture.
and added water were poured ftom the pail onto a filter screen to allow all hair to be well
rinsed using continuous water flow. To ensure complete removal of the bleach solution, pH
and conductivity of the rinse water was monitored. Washes continued until the rise water
pH and condiuctiiy reached specifications for purified water,
[0062 A c.ld solution of a 2% PAA solution was added to hair in a mixing tank for 12 hours
at 37C followed by a wash in 100mM Tris base. The solution was then cenrnifuged filtered,
and diayzed in a custom dialysis System against ai0kDa molecular weight utoffo cellulose
membrane and neutralized to pH 7A After dialysis, the soluto.ns were lyophilized, ground
 nto a powder, and processed for terminal sterilization via gamma radiation.
[0063] For o'mprion, ra            was extated in a similar ashon autlidabove              ith
the bleaching treatment      The final compositions are representedd in Figure 1L       Panel A
                                                14

WO 2014/074591                                                               PCT/US2013/068724
represents the white keratose composition. extracted -ron the bleached hair, For comparison.
Panel B represents a standard keatose o position ex\tted without the bleaching
treatment    The white keratose composition does not have the same brownish color as the
standard keratose composition in B that has been extracted by a method excluding a bleach
step Other than the lack of color, the white keratose composition exhibits similar properties
to the standard keratose composition in B such as granularity,
Example 2 Preparation of White Kerateine
[0064] Similar to the process in Example I, the extraction of white kerateine involves the
initial bleaching step to the hair, H    a hair is washed, dried,and cut into 0    -51 in pieces,
48goz (16z      buckets) of Clairol Basic White Extr   Strength Powder Lighener wa added to
a IOgal pa.i   96oz of Salon Care 2'0-Volume Cear Developer was added to the powder, and
the mixture was stirred with a plastic paddle until all the powder lightener was dissolved and
a paste was forced. A 500g bag of hair cippings was manually sprinkled into the lightener
and developer paste while mixing to ensure even coverage         Clumps were manually broken
up if found. The mixture was then inspected to verify that all hair was coated and that no
dumps of hair remained. The mixture was moved to a fume hood for a 40 minute processing
time, After 40 minutesthe mixture was removed fom the hood, and water was added to the
pail to stop the bleaching reaction and to begin the rinse cycle. The clippings bleaching
mixture.and added water were poured fron the pail onto a illter screen to allow all hair to he
well rinsed using a omntiuous water flow,         To ensure complete removal of the bleach
solution, p1H and conductivit' of the rinse water was measured. Washes continued until the
rinse water pH1 and conductiety reached spOecifications for purified water
[0065] A cold sohition of a 0.M thioglycolicacid (TGA) and saturated NaOH was added to
hair in a mixing tank for 8 hours at 37"C foikowed by two washes in 100mM Tris base and
water., A second cycle of TGA/NaOH, base and water washes was carried out. The solution
was ten centritfged, fired, and dialyzed in a custom dialysis system against. a 100kDa
molecular weight cutoff poiyethersl fone membrane. After dialysis, the solutions were
lyophilized, ground into a powder, and sent. out for terminal sterilization via gamma
[0066} Exampie 3: Gel Forming properties for white keratose compositions
[0067] In this example, samples of the white keratose compositions from Example I were
solubilized and examined for gekforminag properties. White keratose solutions were made at
various concentrations.    5%, 10%, and 15% solutions of white keratose diluted, in PBS or

WO 2014/074591                                                             PCT/US2013/068724
sterile water were nmade and incubated at 37C ovemight shaking at 200 rpm i an incubator.
Samples fro each dilution were then tken and placed in syrHiges. To test the ability to
torm a gel, satpies were extruded fromin     each syrnge onto a piece of paper. if the paper
appears wet and/or no bead of gel forms, the sample is characterized as not farming a get
However, if the Paper appears dry surrounding the sample and/or a helad of gel forms, the
sample is characterized as fbormings a gel,    Preseted in Figure 2 are the results fromnhs
analysis. Preseined in A is a sanple of a 5% protein so'utio  .of white keatose which "orms a
hydrogen as exhibitd by the bead present when the sanipe isspted onto                     paper,
Presented in B is a sample of a 10% protein soluton of white keratose which forms a
hydrogen. as exhibited by the head present when the sample is spotted onto the paper
Presented in C is a sample of a 15% protein solution of white keratose which fors a
hydrogei as exhibited by the head present when the sample is spotted onto the paper, These
results demonstrate that white keratse compositions at dilutions of 1          10% and 5% are
capable of firing a gel.
Example 4: Comparison of rheologicd propertes of whhte keratose and standard keratose
compositions
[0068] Materials and Methods.
[0069] White and standard keratose compositions were prepare by the following: keratose
alpha and keratose gana powders were mixed at a 95t5 ratio eog 0.95 g alpha with 0,05e
gamma), and then resuspended in DPBS at a w/v % of 15%, Samples were incubated in a
conical tube at 37 degrees C with or without shaking at 150-200 rpm for a minimum of 16
hours. Foow             nation ges were placed into the cup of Boehlin CS 10 rheometer.
(00701 Results:
[0071] Presented in Figure I are the results from a sweep shear analysis of the two keratose
compositions. A sweep of shears (amplitude sweep) was performed with a minimumn         shear
stress of 0.7015 Pa and maximum shear stress of 1000 Pa. The resulting storage modulus
was graphed on the y-axisvs. the strain applied. The storage modulus represents stored
energy in the material, which is capable of changing in response to mechanical pressure. i e.
            The graph shows that the elasticity measured for white keratose is higher than the
standard keratose sample, This graph also confirms that the samples are comparable in this
measurement because the linear region of elasticity encompasses the same strains bewen
0.00149 (1.49 .3)   and 0,52 119 (5,2 12) Pa,
                                               1.6

WO 2014/074591                                                                  PCT/US2013/068724
[0072J Prnesented in Figure 4 are,the reut tma Cole-Coe plot for the two keratoseo
compositions. A Coe:-Col Plot demonstrating the solid (elastic) vs, iquid (liscou5s)
  harac          of the   aterial following a frequency sweep is performed on the material, The
whteikeratose sample shows higher elastic modulus at comparable viscosities suggesting the
white keratose como sition has higher eTsticity The overall viscous modulus measurements
are also higher for the white keratose sample. Thus, the white keratose sample has both
increased viscosity and increased elasticity than the standard keratose sample.
[ 073 Presented in Figur 5 are tt result from a .frequency swep analysis of the two
keratose compositons, Frequency sweep was performed from 0. 1 iz to 5 Hz to determine
   vis'emstic   capping phave angn vs. cojm'plx modulus. For eachft phase measurement, the
white keratose sample shows both a higher phase angle (defines increasing elasticiy) and a
higher complex modulus, which signifies both viscous and elastic paneters. Thus, this is
another representation of the whi tekeratose sample        increased viscosity and increased
elastiycompa red with the standard keratose sample
[0 0 7 4 " Example 7: SDS Page comparison of white keratose and standard keratose.
compositions
[0075] The white keratose composition ftrom Example ' was analyzed by SDS-PAGE
chromatography against a standard keratose composition eri ved from unbic ached hair for
comparison. The results of the SDS-PACE analysis are presented in Figure 6, White
keratose (lates 34, and 5) and standard keratose (haes 7,8 and 9) were loaded onto an SDS
Page gel at 25 pg/lane (lanes 3 and 6), 50 pglane (lanes 4 and 7) and 100 pg/lane (lanes 5
and 8). A molecular weight ladder was run in lane 2 for comparison.          As depicted the white
keratose samples and standard keratose samples exhibied similar CoonassieBlue stains
patterns. This result suggests that the      leaching process do'e not after the protein component
makeup in keratose extracted from bleached hair compared keratose extracted fronm
unbleached hair,
[0076) Example 8: SEC analysis of white keratose and standard keraise compositions
[0077] in this Example. samples of white keratose and standard keratose were subjected to
Size Exclusion Chromatography analysis. Samples of both compositions were placed over a
Waters highperformance liquid chromatography (HJPLC) unit equipped with a size exclusion
silica column to evalate the size distribution of proteins that were obtained fronm the
extraction, process described in Example I.- Briefly, IOrmg of keratose powder was
resuspended in 10ld of PBS, vartexed, and put in an incubated shaker at 37C, A fter 20 min1
                                                   17

WO 2014/074591                                                                 PCT/US2013/068724
the sohtion was mixed with a pipete and placed into the sample vial, The HPLC system was
eqilibrated with PBS at (.4 mi/min for 30 minutes prior to testing. Sl of the sample
schtionm was injected and rinsed through the cohnn at 035ml/min. The sample             sorbance
was   measuretwd over 30 mlainutes at 254rnm, Figure 7 represens the resultant Size Exclusion
                          analyis of ketiOS extrate
                   Choa.py(SEC)                            from beached and noe             hair,
Presented in A is the tracing of a white keratose sample. The keratose sample in A
demonstrates a single peak on SEC analysis. Presented in B is the tracig of a standard
keratose sample, The keratose sample in B demonstrates a single peak on SEC analysis,
Both samples exhibit simiar profiles when subjected to SEC analysis, These results
demonstrate tha thek hieaching.proce            soesNnot change or adter the protein component
size of white keratose i. comparison to standard keratose extracted fom anbeached hair
                                                 i8

                                              CLAIMS
 1. A hydrogel composition comprising:
        keratin protein at a concentration of 20% protein in a weight to volume ratio,
                wherein the hydrogel does not require biomaterials or crosslinkers to create or
                    maintain structure
                wherein the keratin protein comprises keratose, kerateine, or a combination
                    thereof
                wherein the hydrogel is colorless.
2. The hydrogel composition of claim 1, wherein said keratin protein is substantially free of
gamma-keratose or gamma-kerateine.
3.   The hydrogel composition of claim 1, wherein the keratin protein concentration is 15% or
less.
4. The hydrogel composition of claim 3, wherein the keratin protein concentration is 10% or less.
5. The hydrogel composition of claim 1, wherein said hydrogel is stable at about 25'C to about
370 C.
6. The hydrogel composition of claim 1, wherein said keratin protein comprises at least 90% or
more keratose.
7. The hydrogel composition of claim 6, wherein said hydrogel is substantially free of kerateine.
8. The hydrogel composition of claim 6, wherein said hydrogel is substantially free of disulfide
bonds.
9. The hydrogel composition of claim 4, wherein said keratin protein comprises at least 90% or
more kerateine.
 10. The hydrogel composition of claim 9, wherein said hydrogel is substantially free of keratose.
                                                 19

11. The hydrogel composition of claim 1, wherein the keratin protein is prepared according to a
method comprising:
        a. bleaching a keratin protein source with a bleaching agent to produce a bleached
             keratin protein source;
        b. treating the bleached keratin protein source with an oxidizing agent to produce
             keratose or with a reducing agent to produce kerateine,
           wherein the steps of (a) bleaching and (b) treating are separate steps; and
        c. extracting keratose, kerateine or a combination thereof from the treated bleached
             keratin protein source of (b) to thereby produce a solution of soluble extracted
             keratose, kerateine, or combination thereof.
12. A method of making the hydrogel of claim 1, comprising:
        providing a keratin composition, wherein the keratin composition comprises keratose,
             kerateine or a combination thereof, and an aqueous medium;
        mixing the keratin composition in the aqueous medium; and
        allowing the hydrogel to form.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the keratin protein is prepared according to a method
comprising:
           a. bleaching a keratin protein source with a bleaching agent to produce a bleached
keratin protein source;
           b. treating the bleached keratin protein source with an oxidizing agent to produce
keratose or with a reducing agent to produce kerateine,
           wherein the steps of (a) bleaching and (b) treating are separate steps; and
           c. extracting keratose, kerateine or a combination thereof from the treated bleached
keratin protein source of (b) to thereby produce a solution of soluble extracted keratose,
kerateine, or combination thereof.
                                                  20

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013341282, is current as of 2018-06-07 21:00 AEST

