ABSTRACT
Disclosed is a multi-needle module used for a sewing machine, capable of being attached and
installed on an existing sewing machine, and capable of conveniently refitting an existing
sewing machine into a multi-needle sewing machine. The multi-needle module is not limited to
a twin-needle structure and can be equipped with three needles, four needles or even more
needles according to needs, solving the problem of a single-needle sewing machine and a
twin-needle sewing machine having insufficient varieties of upper thread colour when sewing a
pattern and thus requiring manual exchange of threads. The multi-needle module guides each
needle (4) by means of a first horizontal guide groove (11) and a second horizontal guide
groove (12), and feeds a specific needle into a snap-groove (5a) of a needle driving block (5)
by means of a driving mechanism, and has the advantages of a simple structure and
automated control.

               METHOD FOR ENZYMATIC TREATMENT OF TISSUE PRODUCTS
 [0000]        The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
No. 2014315111, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[0001]         This application is a continuation-in-part under 35 U.S.C. § 120 of U.S.
Application Number 14/019,274, which was filed on September 5, 2013, and which is
herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0002]         The present disclosure relates to tissue matrices, and more particularly, to
methods for controlling the mechanical and/or biological properties of tissue matrices by
treating the matrices with proteolytic enzymes.
[0003]         Various tissue-derived products are used to regenerate, repair, or otherwise
treat diseased or damaged tissues and organs. Such products can include intact tissue
grafts and/or acellular or reconstituted acellular tissues (e.g., acellular tissue matrices
from skin, intestine, or other tissues, with or without cell seeding). Such products
generally have mechanical properties determined by the tissue source (i.e., tissue type
and animal from which it originated) and the processing parameters used to produce the
tissue products. Since tissue products are often used for surgical applications and/or
tissue replacement or augmentation, the mechanical properties of the tissue products are
important. For example, surgeons generally prefer tissues that feel like natural tissues
and/or are easy to handle during surgical procedures. Some tissue products, however,
are undesirably stiff and/or have an unnatural feel. Accordingly, methods for treating
tissue products to produce more desirable mechanical properties are provided.
[0004]         In addition, when implanted in the body, tissue products derived
from exogenous materials (e.g., tissues from other animals or patients, as well as
processed tissues of any type), may elicit an inflammatory or immune response in the
recipient. In some cases, an excessive immune response may be detrimental,
causing the implant to form undesirable scar tissue, or preventing suitable

regeneration of tissue at the site of implantation. Accordingly, methods for treating
tissue products to reduce or control the immune response of the tissue products
upon implantation are provided.
                                        SUMMARY
[0005]            According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen-containing tissue
matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions
sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix.
[0006]             In another embodiment, a method for treating a tissue matrix is
provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen-containing acellular tissue
matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions
sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix and to increase
the porosity of the tissue matrix.
[0007]             In some embodiments, an acellular tissue matrix is provided. The
matrix can be prepared by a process comprising selecting an acellular tissue matrix
and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions sufficient
to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix.
[0008]            According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can include selecting at least one collagen
containing tissue matrix; contacting the at least one collagen-containing tissue matrix
with a proteolytic enzyme; and performing an assay to determine if contacting the at
least one collagen-containing tissue matrix with the at least one proteolytic enzyme
has altered the at least one collagen-containing tissue matrix to reduce a human
immune response to the tissue matrix when the tissue matrix is implanted in a
human body.
                                              2

[0009]            According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a dermal tissue matrix; and
contacting the dermal tissue matrix with alcalase under conditions including an
incubation time in a solution having an alcalase activity selected to produce a
desired increase in a pliability of the tissue matrix as measured by a drape test
without producing significant collagen degradation.
[0010]            According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a dermal tissue matrix; and
contacting the dermal tissue matrix with alcalase; and treating the tissue matrix with
radiation, wherein the alcalase is provided under conditions selected to produce a
desired tissue matrix pliability after treatment with radiation.
                         DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]            Figures 1A-1 D show acellular tissue matrices after treatment with
enzymes using methods described in Example 1, as well as untreated controls.
[0012]            Figure 2 is a box plot of tensile strength testing data for treated and
control samples, according to the methods of Example 1.
[0013]            Figure 3 is a box plot of suture strength testing data for treated and
control samples, according to the methods of Example 1.
[0014]            Figure 4 is a box plot of tear strength testing data for treated and
control samples, according to the methods of Example 1.
[0015]            Figure 5 is a box plot of elasticity testing data for treated and control
samples, according to the methods of Example 1.
[0016]            Figure 6 is a box plot of creep resistance testing data for treated
and control samples, according to the methods of Example 1.
                                              3

[0017]             Figure 7 illustrates DSC thermograms for untreated tissues and
tissues treated using bromelain and alcalase, according to Example 2.2.
[0018]             Figures 8A-8B illustrate expression patterns of activation markers
CD1 4 (A) and CD1 63 (B) in monocytes co-cultured with various tissues, using the
monocyte activation assay described in Example 2.4.
[0019]             Figures 9A-F are hematoxylin & eosin (H&E) sections of untreated
pADM (9A-9C) and enzyme treated pADM (9D-9F) after explant, as described in
Example 2.5.
[0020]             Figures 1OA-D are H&E sections of untreated pADM (9A-9B) and
enzyme treated pADM (9C-9D) explants, as describe in Example 2.5.
[0021]             Figure 11 is a bar graph showing drape test results for tissue
matrices after treatment with alcalase using methods described in Example 3, as
well as untreated controls.
[0022]             Figure 12 is a line graph showing collagenase digestion assay
results for tissue matrices after treatment with alcalase using methods described in
Example 3, as well as untreated controls.
[0023]             Figure 13 illustrates DSC results, including denaturation onset
temperature for untreated tissues and tissues treated using alcalase according to
Example 3.
[0024]             Figure 14 is an interval plot of maximum load/unit width for tissue
matrices after treatment with alcalase using methods described in Example 3, as
well as untreated controls.
[0025]             Figure 15 is an interval plot of elasticity for tissue matrices after
treatment with alcalase using methods described in Example 3, as well as untreated
controls.
                                             4

              DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0026]             Reference will now be made in detail to certain exemplary
embodiments according to the present disclosure, certain examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference
numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.
[0027]             In this application, the use of the singular includes the plural unless
specifically stated otherwise. In this application, the use of "or" means "and/or"
unless stated otherwise. Furthermore, the use of the term "including", as well as
other forms, such as "includes" and "included", is not limiting. Any range described
herein will be understood to include the endpoints and all values between the
endpoints.
[0028]             The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes
only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described. All
documents, or portions of documents, cited in this application, including but not
limited to patents, patent applications, articles, books, and treatises, are hereby
expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety for any purpose.
[0029]             As used herein "tissue product" will refer to any human or animal
tissue that contains extracellular matrix proteins. "Tissue products" can include
acellular or partially decellularized tissue matrices, decellularized tissue matrices that
have been repopulated with exogenous cells, and/or cellular tissues.
[0030]             As used herein, "tissue matrix" refers to the extracellular matrix,
including collagen for a given tissue, wherein the matrix retains the interconnected
structural collagen matrix characteristics of the native extracellular matrix from the
tissue from which it is derived. "Acellular tissue matrix" refers to a "tissue matrix" from
which the native tissue cells have been removed.
                                              5

[0031]              Various human and animal tissues can be used to produce
products for treating patients. For example, various tissue products for regeneration,
repair, augmentation, reinforcement, and/or treatment of human tissues that have
been damaged or lost due to various diseases and/or structural damage (e.g., from
trauma, surgery, atrophy, and/or long-term wear and degeneration) have been
produced. Such products can include, for example, acellular tissue matrices, tissue
allografts or xenografts, and/or reconstituted tissues (i.e., at least partially
decellularized tissues that have been seeded with cells to produce viable materials).
[0032]              For surgical applications, it is often desirable to produce tissue
products that have certain mechanical properties. For example, the tissue product,
which may include a sheet of material, should possess sufficient strength to
withstand the demands of an intended use. Certain tissue products may be used to
repair defects (e.g., hernias), to support surrounding tissues or implants (e.g., for
breast augmentation and/or reconstruction), or to replace damaged or lost tissue
(e.g., after trauma or surgical resection). Whatever the particular use, the tissue
product should have sufficient strength, elasticity, and/or other mechanical properties
to function until tissue regeneration and/or repair occurs.
[0033]              In addition, tissue products should have a desirable feel. For
example, surgeons generally prefer materials that have a natural tissue-like feel
(e.g., are sufficiently soft, pliable, and/or elastic). Further, after implantation, it is
desirable for tissue products to feel natural. For example, tissues used for breast
augmentation should not be excessively stiff so that upon implantation they produce
a naturally feeling breast.
[0034]              Some tissue products, however, can be excessively stiff for some
applications. For example, some surgeons note that porcine-derived dermal
                                               6

materials such as STRATTICETM are less pliable than human dermal products such
as ALLODERM@. Processes for improving the feel of such products, however,
should not adversely affect the biological and/or mechanical properties of the
products. Specifically, processing of the products to improve the feel of the products
should not produce an undesirable decrease in other mechanical properties such as
tensile strength, and should not alter the protein matrix in such a way that the
material does not support tissue regeneration and/or repair.
[0035]             The present disclosure provides methods for treating tissues to
control the feel of tissue products produced from the tissues. The disclosure also
provides tissue products produced using the methods of treatment. In addition, the
present disclosure provides methods of treating tissues to control the porosity of
tissue products produced from the tissues. In some cases, controlling the porosity
can improve cellular infiltration and tissue regeneration and/or repair.
[0036]             In addition, the present disclosure provides methods for controlling
or reducing an immune response to tissue matrices when implanted in a body. The
immune response can be measured using a number of immunoassays, including
monocyte activation assays, phagocytosis assays, and/or oxidative burst assays.
The immunogenicity may also be controlled while treating the tissue to improve the
feel of the tissue, to control mechanical properties of the tissue (including any
mechanical property listed herein), and/or to control porosity of the tissue. After
treatment of the tissue matrices, the matrices may be subjected to an assay to
determine if the immunogenicity of the tissue has been altered in a desirable way.
[0037]             According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a dermal tissue matrix; and
contacting the dermal tissue matrix with alcalase under conditions including an
                                             7

incubation time in a solution having an alcalase activity selected to produce a
desired increase in a pliability of the tissue matrix as measured by a drape test
without producing significant collagen degradation.
[0038]             In certain embodiments, the enzymatic treatment conditions are
selected to provide a desired reduction in a drape value. As used herein, the "drape
test" involves placing (draping) a sample of tissue matrix with a known circular area
on top of a circular pedestal having a known diameter. The projected area of the
dermal matrix after it drapes over the pedestal is divided by the original area of the
tissue matrix circle to determine the drape value. Note that the area of the pedestal
is subtracted from the original area of the disk and the draped area prior to dividing
these two areas to determine drape. A lower value of drape means a softer (more
drapable) material.
[0039]             In certain embodiments, the enzyme is alcalase and the treatment
conditions are selected to produce a reduction in the drape value using a 60mm
diameter tissue matrix sample and a 19mm pedestal of between 10-90%, between
20-80%, between 30-70%, between 40-60%, or about 50% (e.g., 45-55%), or at
least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60% or at least 70%. Further, in some
embodiments, the conditions are selected to produce a drape value for a dermal
acellular tissue of between 0.2-0.4, or between 0.25-0.35, or less than 0.4, less than
0.35, less than 0.3, or less than 0.2.
[0040]            A variety of factors may affect the final drape value. For example,
factors that may be varied to control the effect on tissue pliability can include, for
example, temperature, pH, solution or buffer used, enzyme concentration, specific
type of alcalase used, amount of solution compared to amount of tissue, and/or
presence of inhibitors of enzymes in the solution.
                                              8

[0041]              As discussed in more detail below, alcalase has been found to have
a number of benefits in treatment of dermal tissue matrices. For example, at
relatively low incubation times and enzymatic activities, alcalase has been shown to
provide a substantial increase in tissue pliability and improvement in tissue matrix
drape tests (i.e., provides more drape capability) without causing unacceptable
alterations in collagen structure or deterioration in other tissue properties such as
tensile strength, elasticity, tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance, burst
strength, thermal transition temperature, collagenase susceptibility or combinations
thereof.
[0042]              As discussed in detail in Example 3, treatment with alcalase
followed by irradiation (e.g., as a terminal sterilization step) has been found to have
variable effects on tissue mechanical properties based on variations in enzyme
processing conditions. For example, with relatively low enzyme concentrations and
treatment times, followed by irradiation, the resulting tissue in an initial increase in
tissue pliability, which peaks at a certain point, as shown, for example, in Figure 11.
With further alcalase treatment (e.g., for longer treatment times or with higher
enzymatic activity), subsequent irradiation causes a loss of pliability. Accordingly, in
some embodiments, the methods can comprise selecting a dermal tissue matrix; and
contacting the dermal tissue matrix with alcalase; and treating the tissue matrix with
radiation, wherein the alcalase is provided under conditions selected to produce a
desired tissue matrix pliability after treatment with radiation.
[0043]              In order to maintain stability of the implanted extracellular matrix in
vivo, it is desirable to maintain the collagen stability during processing. Collagen
denaturation onset temperature by DSC and weight loss during treatment with
collagenase enzyme are indicators of collagen stability. As used herein,
                                              9

"unacceptable degradation in tissue collagen structure" means a change in DSC
collagen denaturation onset temperature of greater than 1 C, greater than 20C,
greater than 30C, or greater than 40C, or greater than 50C.
[0044]            Various alacase activities and treatment times may be used. For
example, alcalase may be provided in a solution with an activity of 1x 10-6 Anson
units per mL to 0.015 Anson units per mL, an activity of 1x 0-6 units to 1.5x1 03
Anson units per mL, or an activity of about 2x1 05 Anson units per mL to about 4x1 05
Anson units per mL. In addition, treatment times may vary between about 4 hours
and 5 days.
[0045]             In one embodiment, a method for treating a tissue matrix is
provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen-containing tissue matrix
and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions sufficient
to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix. In another embodiment, a
method for treating a tissue matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a
collagen-containing acellular tissue matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a
proteolytic enzyme under conditions sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability
in the tissue matrix and to increase the porosity of the tissue matrix. Figs. 1A-1 D
show acellular tissue matrices (STRATTICETM) after treatment with enzymes using
methods of the present disclosure, as well as untreated controls. As shown, the
treated samples are significantly more pliable that the untreated samples.
[0046]            According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can include selecting at least one collagen
containing tissue matrix; contacting the at least one collagen-containing tissue matrix
with a proteolytic enzyme; and performing an assay to determine if contacting the at
least one collagen-containing tissue matrix with the at least one proteolytic enzyme
                                              10

has altered the at least one collagen-containing tissue matrix to reduce a human
immune response to the tissue matrix when the tissue matrix is implanted in a
human body.
[0047]            In various embodiments, treatment of tissue matrices with
proteolytic enzymes provides improved mechanical properties without causing
degradation in one or more biological properties. For example, treatment of tissue
matrices can produce desired stiffness, feel, tactile properties, and/or desired
porosity without causing increased inflammation or scar formation and/or without
causing a reduction in the tissue matrices' ability to promote cell ingrowth and
regeneration.
[0048]            The tissue matrices can be selected to provide a variety of different
biological and mechanical properties. For example, an acellular tissue matrix or other
tissue product can be selected to allow tissue in-growth and remodeling to assist in
regeneration of tissue normally found at the site where the matrix is implanted. For
example, an acellular tissue matrix, when implanted on or into fascia, may be
selected to allow regeneration of the fascia without excessive fibrosis or scar
formation. In certain embodiments, the tissue product can be formed from
ALLODERM@ or STRATTICE T M , which are human and porcine acellular dermal
matrices respectively. Alternatively, other suitable acellular tissue matrices can be
used, as described further below. The tissues can be selected from a variety of
tissue sources including skin (dermis or whole skin), fascia, pericardial tissue, dura,
umbilical cord tissue, placental tissue, cardiac valve tissue, ligament tissue, adipose
tissue, tendon tissue, arterial tissue, venous tissue, neural connective tissue, urinary
bladder tissue, ureter tissue, and intestinal tissue. The methods described herein can
be used to process any collagenous tissue type, and for any tissue matrix product.
                                            11

For example, a number of biological scaffold materials are described by Badylak et
al., and the methods of the present disclosure can be used to treat those or other
tissue products known in the art. Badylak et al., "Extracellular Matrix as a Biological
Scaffold Material: Structure and Function," Acta Biomaterialia (2008),
doi:10.101 6/j.actbio.2008.09.01 3.
[0049]            In some cases, the tissue product can be provided as a
decellularized tissue matrix. Suitable acellular tissue matrices are described further
below. In other cases, the method can further include processing intact tissue to
remove cells or other materials. The tissues can be completely or partially
decellularized to yield acellular tissue matrices or extracellular tissue materials to be
used for patients. For example, various tissues, such as skin, intestine, bone,
cartilage, adipose tissue, nerve tissue (e.g., nerve fibers or dura), tendons,
ligaments, or other tissues can be completely or partially decellularized to produce
tissue products useful for patients. In some cases, these decellularized products can
be used without addition of exogenous cellular materials (e.g., stem cells). In certain
cases, these decellularized products can be seeded with cells from autologous
sources or other sources to facilitate treatment. Suitable processes for producing
acellular tissue matrices are described below.
[0050]            A number of different enzymes can be used to treat the tissue
matrices. For example, suitable enzymes can include sulfhydryl proteases such as
bromelain. In addition, they can include bromelain, papain, ficin, actinidin, alcalase,
trypsin or combinations thereof. The enzymes can be purchased commercially or
extracted from fruit sources. For example, one source of bromelain is MCCORMICK
MEAT TENDERIZER@, but the enzymes can also be extracted from pineapple
and/or purchased in a medical-grade formulation.
                                            12

[0051]               The enzymes can be contacted with the tissues to increase the
pliability of the tissue without causing undesirable degradation in other mechanical
and/or biological properties. For example, when a batch of materials are produced
with or without the enzyme treatments discussed herein, the enzyme treatments will
not produce an undesirable change in at least one of tensile strength, tear strength,
suture strength, creep resistance, elasticity, collagenase susceptibility, burst
strength, thermal transition temperature, or combinations thereof. In some cases, an
undesirable change is a statistically significant reduction in any one of tensile
strength, tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance, glycosaminoglycan
content, lectin content, burst strength, an increase in collagenase susceptibility or a
change (upward or downward) in thermal transition temperature (as measured using
differential scanning calorimetry).
[0052]               As noted above, in some embodiments, the tissues are treated with
an enzyme to increase the porosity of the tissue. In various embodiments, increasing
the porosity of the tissue is performed to increase the number and/or size of
channels, which can improve the rate of cellular infiltration and tissue regeneration.
[0053]               In some cases, the enzymes are selected such that they cause site
specific cleavage of proteins within the tissues. For example, it has been found that
treatment of porcine dermal materials with bromelain does not cause further
alterations in the matrix structure after a certain amount of treatment. Therefore,
treatment of dermis with bromelain does not cause further change in the matrix with
prolonged exposure or after extended periods of time.
[0054]               In addition, the enzyme can be applied to the tissues in a variety of
suitable solutions. For example, bromelain has been found to be effective when
                                              13

applied to tissues in normal saline, but other suitable buffers (e.g., PBS) can be
used.
[0055]            As noted above, after treatment with an enzyme, an assay may be
performed to determine if contacting the at least one collagen-containing tissue
matrix with the at least one proteolytic enzyme has altered the at least one collagen
containing tissue matrix to reduce a human immune response to the tissue matrix
when the tissue matrix is implanted in a human body. A number of suitable assays
may be performed. For example, suitable assays can include monocyte activation
assays, phagocytosis assays, and oxidative burst assays.
[0056]            In some embodiments, the assay may be performed on a segment
or portion of the processed tissue, and other portions of the tissue may be used in
subsequent medical or surgical procedures. In other embodiments, the assay may
be performed on one or more samples from a batch of multiple samples, and
samples not subjected to the assay may be subsequently selected for use in treating
a patient.
[0057]            In certain embodiments, the enzyme treatment is selected to
remove collagen or other proteins in the material that have a thermal transition
temperature that will permit denaturation at body temperature. For example, in some
embodiments, dermal acellular tissues are selected, and the enzymatic treatment is
selected to remove a thermal peak, as measured using DSC, between about 30
degrees and 40 degrees Celsius. This small ECM peak is expected to denature
spontaneously at the human body temperature and may contribute to the different
inflammatory reactions that occur after implantation.
                                            14

Acellular Tissue Matrices
[0058]             The term "acellular tissue matrix," as used herein, refers generally
to any tissue matrix that is substantially free of cells and/or cellular components.
Skin, parts of skin (e.g., dermis), and other tissues such as blood vessels, heart
valves, fascia, cartilage, adipose tissue, bone, and nerve connective tissue may be
used to create acellular matrices within the scope of the present disclosure. Acellular
tissue matrices can be tested or evaluated to determine if they are substantially free
of cell and/or cellular components in a number of ways. For example, processed
tissues can be inspected with light microscopy to determine if cells (live or dead)
and/or cellular components remain. In addition, certain assays can be used to
identify the presence of cells or cellular components. For example, DNA or other
nucleic acid assays can be used to quantify remaining nuclear materials within the
tissue matrices. Generally, the absence of remaining DNA or other nucleic acids will
be indicative of complete decellularization (i.e., removal of cells and/or cellular
components). Finally, other assays that identify cell-specific components (e.g.,
surface antigens) can be used to determine if the tissue matrices are acellular. Skin,
parts of skin (e.g., dermis), and other tissues such as blood vessels, heart valves,
fascia, cartilage, bone, and nerve connective tissue may be used to create acellular
matrices within the scope of the present disclosure.
[0059]             In general, the steps involved in the production of an acellular tissue
matrix include harvesting the tissue from a donor (e.g., a human cadaver or animal
source) and cell removal under conditions that preserve biological and structural
function. In certain embodiments, the process includes chemical treatment to
stabilize the tissue and avoid biochemical and structural degradation together with or
before cell removal. In various embodiments, the stabilizing solution arrests and
                                             15

prevents osmotic, hypoxic, autolytic, and proteolytic degradation, protects against
microbial contamination, and reduces mechanical damage that can occur with
tissues that contain, for example, smooth muscle components (e.g., blood vessels).
The stabilizing solution may contain an appropriate buffer, one or more antioxidants,
one or more oncotic agents, one or more antibiotics, one or more protease inhibitors,
and/or one or more smooth muscle relaxants.
[0060]               The tissue is then placed in a decellularization solution to remove
viable cells (e.g., epithelial cells, endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and
fibroblasts) from the structural matrix without damaging the biological and structural
integrity of the collagen matrix. The decellularization solution may contain an
appropriate buffer, salt, an antibiotic, one or more detergents, one or more agents to
prevent cross-linking, one or more protease inhibitors, and/or one or more enzymes.
In some embodiments, the tissue is incubated in the decellularization solution
overnight at   3 7 2C with gentle shaking at 90 rpm. In certain embodiments, additional
detergents may be used to remove fat from the tissue sample..
[0061]               After the decellularization process, the tissue sample is washed
thoroughly. In some exemplary embodiments, e.g., when xenogenic material is used,
the decellularized tissue is then treated with a deoxyribonuclease (DNase) solution. .
Any suitable buffer can be used as long as the buffer provides suitable DNase
activity.
[0062]               While an acellular tissue matrix may be made from one or more
individuals of the same species as the recipient of the acellular tissue matrix graft,
this is not necessarily the case. Thus, for example, an acellular tissue matrix may be
made from porcine tissue and implanted in a human patient. Species that can serve
as recipients of acellular tissue matrix and donors of tissues or organs for the
                                               16

production of the acellular tissue matrix include, without limitation, mammals, such
as humans, nonhuman primates (e.g., monkeys, baboons, or chimpanzees), pigs,
cows, horses, goats, sheep, dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, gerbils, hamsters, rats,
or mice.
[0063]             Elimination of the a-gal epitopes from the collagen-containing
material may diminish the immune response against the collagen-containing
material. The a-gal epitope is expressed in non-primate mammals and in New World
monkeys (monkeys of South America) as well as on macromolecules such as
proteoglycans of the extracellular components. U. Galili et al., J. Biol. Chem. 263:
17755 (1988). This epitope is absent in Old World primates (monkeys of Asia and
Africa and apes) and humans, however. Id. Anti-gal antibodies are produced in
humans and primates as a result of an immune response to a-gal epitope
carbohydrate structures on gastrointestinal bacteria. U. Galili et al., Infect. Immun.
56: 1730 (1988); R. M. Hamadeh et al., J. Clin. Invest. 89: 1223 (1992).
[0064]             Since non-primate mammals (e.g., pigs) produce a-gal epitopes,
xenotransplantation of collagen-containing material from these mammals into
primates often results in rejection because of primate anti-Gal antibody binding to
these epitopes on the collagen-containing material. U. Galili et al., Immunology
Today 14: 480 (1993); M. Sandrin et al., Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 11391
(1993); H. Good et al., Transplant. Proc. 24: 559 (1992); B. H. Collins et al., J.
Immunol. 154: 5500 (1995). Furthermore, xenotransplantation results in major
activation of the immune system to produce increased amounts of high affinity anti
gal antibodies. Accordingly, in some embodiments, when animals that produce a-gal
epitopes are used as the tissue source, the substantial elimination of a-gal epitopes
from cells and from extracellular components of the collagen-containing material,
                                             17

and the prevention of re-expression of cellular a-gal epitopes can diminish the
immune response against the collagen-containing material associated with anti-gal
antibody binding to a-gal epitopes.
[0065]             To remove a-gal epitopes, the tissue sample may be subjected to
one or more enzymatic treatments to remove certain immunogenic antigens, if
present in the sample. In some embodiments, the tissue sample may be treated with
an a-galactosidase enzyme to eliminate a-gal epitopes if present in the tissue. In
some embodiments, the tissue sample is treated with a-galactosidase at a
concentration of 300 U/L prepared in 100 mM phosphate buffer at pH 6.0. In other
embodiments, the concentration of a-galactosidase is increased to 400 U/L for
adequate removal of the a-gal epitopes from the harvested tissue. Any suitable
enzyme concentration and buffer can be used as long as it is sufficient removal of
antigens is achieved.
[0066]             Alternatively, rather than treating the tissue with enzymes, animals
that have been genetically modified to lack one or more antigenic epitopes may be
selected as the tissue source. For example, animals (e.g., pigs) that have been
genetically engineered to lack the terminal a-galactose moiety can be selected as
the tissue source. For descriptions of appropriate animals see co-pending U.S.
Application Serial No. 10/896,594 and U.S. Patent No. 6,166,288, the disclosures of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. In addition, certain
exemplary methods of processing tissues to produce acellular matrices with or
without reduced amounts of or lacking alpha-1,3-galactose moieties are described in
Xu, Hui. et al., "A Porcine-Derived Acellular Dermal Scaffold that Supports Soft
Tissue Regeneration: Removal of Terminal Galactose-a-(1,3)-Galactose and
                                             18

Retention of Matrix Structure," Tissue Engineering, Vol. 15, 1-13 (2009), which is
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0067]              After the acellular tissue matrix is formed, histocompatible, viable
cells may optionally be seeded in the acellular tissue matrix to produce a graft that
may be further remodeled by the host. In some embodiments, histocompatible viable
cells may be added to the matrices by standard in vitro cell co-culturing techniques
prior to transplantation, or by in vivo repopulation following transplantation. In vivo
repopulation can be by the recipient's own cells migrating into the acellular tissue
matrix or by infusing or injecting cells obtained from the recipient or histocompatible
cells from another donor into the acellular tissue matrix in situ. Various cell types can
be used, including embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells (e.g. mesenchymal stem
cells), and/or neuronal cells. In various embodiments, the cells can be directly
applied to the inner portion of the acellular tissue matrix just before or after
implantation. In certain embodiments, the cells can be placed within the acellular
tissue matrix to be implanted, and cultured prior to implantation.
Example 1: Treatment of Tissue Matrices to Increase Pliability
[0068]              The following example illustrates a process for treating materials
comprising porcine dermal acellular tissue matrices with bromelain to increase the
pliability of the material. As discussed below, the treatment did not cause an
undesirable change in various mechanical properties. In addition, the treatment
increases the porosity of the material, which may improve the rate of cellular
infiltration and tissue regeneration.
[0069]              For this experiment, STRATTICETM cellular tissue matrices, as
obtained from LIFECELL CORPORATION (Branchburg, NJ) were used.
STRATTICE T M is available in a pliable form and a more firm version. Both types
                                               19

were used for this experiment. The samples used for testing were cut into quarters,
and three quarters were treated. Untreated samples (1 quarter) were used as
controls. The controls were refrigerated during treatment. STRATTICETM is
packaged in a solution, and therefore, does not require rehydration. The treated
samples were placed in 0.5 liters of cold tap water containing 55g of MCCORMICK
MEAT TENDERIZER.
[0070]             Figures 1A-1 D show acellular tissue matrices after treatment with
enzymes using methods of the present disclosure, as well as untreated controls.
Figures 2-6 are box plots of tensile strengths, suture strengths, tear strengths,
elasticity, and creep resistance for each treated and control samples. The treated
samples had a noticeably increased pliability compared to controls, but did not have
significant reduction in other mechanical properties. In addition, no significant
change in thermal transition temperature or collagenase susceptibility was found.
Overall paired T-Test showed no statistical difference between control and treatment
groups.
Example 2: Treatment of Tissue Matrices to Modulate Immune Response Upon
Implantation
1. Preparation of Porcine Acellular Dermal Matrix (pADM)
[0071]             Porcine skin was collected from an abattoir the epidermis and
subcutaneous fat were physically removed. The remaining dermal tissue was de
contaminated at 37C in PBS containing antibiotics for 24 hours.
[0072]             Following de-contamination, the tissue was processed under
aseptic conditions. The dermal tissue was decellularized for 24 hours with detergents
to remove viable cells, washed with saline, and treated with DNAse/a-galactosidase
or another 24 hours. Cellular debris and residual chemicals were removed by
                                           20

washing in PBS. The resulting porcine acellular dermal matrix (pADM) was stored at
ambient temperature until use.
2. Preparation of Enzyme-Treated pADM
[0073]             pADM was treated with one of two protease enzymes (alcalase or
bromelain) overnight at 37C. Bromelain, at a concentration of 100 units/liter, was
used to treat pADM either before the decellularization or after the DNAse/aL
galactosidase step. Alcalase was used at a concentration of 0.003 Anson units/mL to
treat pADM before the decellularization step.
3. Differential Scanning Calorimetry of Treated Samples
[0074]             The effect of bromelain enzyme treatment on porcine tissue ECM
was evaluated using differential scanning calorimetric (DSC) analysis. Tissue
samples were hermetically sealed and scanned at 30C/min from 20C to 1200C. DSC
thermograms for untreated tissues and tissues treated using the enzymes (bromelain
and alcalase) according to Example 2.2 are shown in Fig. 7. The thermograms
demonstrated a few alterations in the tissue ECM after enzyme treatment. First, in
contrast to decellularized, untreated control tissue, the enzyme-treated ECM did not
show the small peak (~2%) between 300C and 400C. This small ECM peak is
expected to denature spontaneously at the human body temperature and may
contribute to different inflammatory responses elicited by untreated and enzyme
treated pADM. Second, the two major ECM peaks above 550C were depressed
slightly by 0.90C on average,. Third, the overall ECM denaturation enthalpy was
increased by ~7.5% on average after enzyme treatment.
4. In Vitro Monocyte Activation
[0075]             Monocytes are white blood cells that form part of the innate immune
system. In response to inflammatory agents, they are rapidly activated and initiate an
                                           21

inflammatory response. To predict human inflammatory responses to enzyme
treated and untreated tissues, monocytes were isolated from human peripheral blood
and incubated with the tissues overnight. Following incubation, cells were washed
and stained with antibodies against two surface markers used to monitor activation,
CD14 and CD1 63.
[0076]            Upon activation, monocytes decrease expression of both CD14 and
CD1 63 on their surfaces. This expression pattern was confirmed using
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a known activator of monocytes. Figs. 8A-8B illustrate
expression patterns of activation markers CD14 (A) and CD163 (B) in monocytes co
cultured with various tissues. The expression levels of CD1 4 and CD1 63 in un
induced monocytes (black) serve as baseline negative controls. For comparison, the
expression patterns of these markers in un-induced monocytes served as negative
controls. Enzyme-treated pADM induced a much lower level of activation than
untreated pADM, as evidenced by the expression pattern of both markers. In fact,
the pattern and level of CD14 expression in monocytes exposed to enzyme-treated
pADM are very similar to those of un-induced monocytes. Monocytes exposed to
enzyme-treated pADM had slightly decrease expression of CD1 63 but to a much
lesser extent than monocytes exposed to either untreated pADM or LPS.
                  The results indicate that enzyme-treated pADM induces minimal
inflammatory responses in human monocytes. Upon monocyte activation,
expressions of both CD1 4 and CD1 63 decrease. This pattern is confirmed by cells
co-cultured with a known monocyte activator, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Untreated
pADM (red) show lower expressions of CD1 4 and CD1 63 compared to enzyme
treated pADM (green), indicating enzyme treatment decreases monocyte activation.
                                            22

Thus, enzyme-treated pADM elicit less of an inflammatory response in human
monocytes.
5. In vivo performance of pADM and enzyme-treated pADM
[0077]            To assess the in vivo performance of pADM and enzyme-treated
pADM, 1cm x 1cm pieces of pADM and enzyme treated pADM were implanted in
subcutaneous tissue of immune competent rats. At two and four weeks after
implantation, the tissues were explanted and processed for histological evaluation of
inflammation, cellular repopulation, and revascularization.
[0078]            Figs. 9A-F are hematoxylin & eosin (H&E) sections of untreated
pADM (9A-9C) and enzyme treated pADM (9D-9F) after explant, as described in
above. Figs. 1OA-D are H&E section of untreated pADM (9A-9B) and enzyme treated
pADM (C-D) explants, as described above. Enzyme treated pADM induced minimal
to no inflammation, while untreated pADM induced moderate to high inflammatory
responses characterized by the presence of abundant of immune cells. Furthermore,
enzyme- treated pADM explants exhibited enhanced cellular repopulation and
revascularization compared to untreated pADM. In the untreated pADM, fibroblast
like cells and vascular structures were present mainly on the periphery of the tissue.
In contrast, those same cells and vascular structures were observed throughout the
enzyme treated pADM, including in the middle of the tissue.
6. Collagenase Digestion Assays
[0079]            Different aliquots of freeze-dried pADMs and enzyme-treated (using
bromelain, trypsin, and alcalase) pADMs were weighed and digested with
collagenase Type I for varying lengths of time. At each time point, some aliquots of
digested samples were separated from the collagenase I solution by centrifugation
and washed with water to remove residual collagenase I solution. All aliquots were
                                            23

again freeze dried and weighed. The percentage of matrix remaining at each time
point was calculated by taking the ratio of the dry weight of the digested sample to
the dry weight of the initial sample.
[0080]             Enzyme treatment did not negatively impact the susceptibility of
pADMs to collagenase digestion. Both pADMs and enzyme treated pADMs were
digested by collagenase Type I to the same degree and at the same rate.
Accordingly, the methods of the present disclosure have been found to provide
improved immunological properties upon implantation without causing a degradation
in collagenase susceptibility.
Example 3: Treatment of Tissues with Controlled Alcalase Activity
[0081]             Porcine dermis was treated with alcalase having varying activity
from 3 x 10-5 to 0.015 Anson units/mL in an approximately neutral pH aqueous
solution for 16 hours. The porcine dermis was subsequently decellularized,
disinfected, and sterilized with electron beam to prepare a sterile acellular dermal
matrix. Various tests were performed to study the effect of alcalase on various
mechanical, structural, and biological properties.
[0082]             Figure 11 is a bar graph showing drape test results for tissue
matrices after treatment with alcalase using methods described in Example 3, as
well as untreated controls. The drape test involved placing a 60mm diameter circle of
dermal matrix on top of a 19mm diameter pedestal. The projected area of the dermal
matrix after it drapes over the pedestal was divided by the original area of the 60mm
diameter circle to determine the drape value. Note that the area of the pedestal is
subtracted from the original area of the disk and the draped area prior to dividing
these two areas to determine drape. A lower value of drape means a softer (more
drapable) material. The data shows that drape decreases significantly (the material
                                            24

softens) for the lowest enzyme concentration of 3 x 10 5 Anson units/mL. Above 3 x
10 5 Anson units/mL, at the selected treatment time, temperature, and pH, the drape
value increases and appears to plateau above 1.5 x 10 3 Anson units/mL.
[0083]              Figure 13 is a line graph showing collagenase digestion assay
results for tissue matrices after treatment with alcalase using methods described in
Example 3, as well as untreated controls. The data show similar digestion profile to
the control (non-enzyme treated matrix) for the lower concentrations of alcalase with
increasing rate of degradation for the matrices exposed to higher concentrations of
alcalase.
[0084]              Figure 14 illustrates DSC results, namely denaturation onset for
untreated tissues and tissues treated using alcalase, according to Example 3. Similar
to collagen stability measured using collagenase susceptibility testing (Figure 13),
the lower denaturation onset with increasing alcalase concentrations indicates
decreasing collagen stability as a function of alcalase treatment concentration.
[0085]              Figure 15 is an interval plot of maximum load/unit width for tissue
matrices after treatment with alcalase using methods described in Example 3, as
well as untreated controls. This data was generated by tensile testing approximately
1 cm wide strips of the materials to failure while measuring force. Testing was
performed using and INSTRON mechanical test system. The data show similar
strength for all treatments.
[0086]              Figure 16 is an interval plot of elasticity for tissue matrices after
treatment with alcalase using methods described in Example 3, as well as untreated
controls. Elasticity is a measure of stiffness of the material at higher loads in the
linear portion of the displacement-force curve. Elasticity is in contrast to the drape
                                              25

measurement, which reflects stiffness at very low loads (the force of gravity on the
tissue). No significant changes in elasticity were seen between treatment groups.
[0087]            The test shows that alcalase treatment effectively increases
pliability of pADM with initial treatment, with subsequent increase in pliability with
continued treatment. Further, low levels of alcalase exposure do not adversely affect
maximum load, collagenase susceptibility, and elasticity.
                                             26

                                 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.     A method for treating a tissue matrix, comprising:
        selecting a tissue matrix; and
        contacting the tissue matrix with alcalase under conditions including an
incubation time in a solution having an alcalase activity selected to produce a
desired increase in a pliability measured by a drape test of the tissue matrix without
producing significant collagen degradation.
        2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with the
proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not produce an undesirable change in at
least one of tensile strength, tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance, burst
strength, thermal transition temperature, collagenase susceptibility or combinations
thereof.
        3.     The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the conditions are selected
to provide a substantially maximum increase in tissue pliability.
        4.     The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the tissue matrix is a non
primate tissue matrix.
        5.     The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the tissue matrix is a porcine
tissue matrix.
        6.     The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted
with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not produce an undesirable
change in elasticity.
        7.     The method of any of claims 1-6, further including treating the tissue
matrix to removal at least some of the cells and cellular components from the tissue
matrix.
                                            27

        8.     The method of claim 7, including removal of all the cells and cellular
components from the tissue matrix.
        9.     The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the tissue matrix is an
acellular tissue matrix.
        10.    The method of any of claims 1-9, wherein the tissue matrix comprises a
dermal tissue matrix.
        11.    The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein contacting the tissue matrix
with alcalase includes contacting the tissue matrix with a solution having alcalase
with an activity of 1x 10-6 units to 0.015 Anson units/mL.
        12.    The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein contacting the tissue matrix
with alcalase includes contacting the tissue matrix with a solution having alcalase
with an activity of 1x 10-6 units to 1.5x1 03 Anson units/mL..
        13.    The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein contacting the tissue matrix
with alcalase includes contacting the tissue matrix with a solution having alcalase
with an activity of about 2x1 05 units to about 4x1 05 Anson units/mL.
        14.    The method of any of claims 1-13, further comprising packaging the
tissue matrix.
        15.    The method of any of claims 1-14, further comprising sterilizing the
tissue matrix.
        16.    The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the tissue matrix is
contacted with alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of
or at least 30%.
        17.    The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the tissue matrix is
contacted with alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of
or at least 40%.
                                              28

        18.     The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the tissue matrix is
contacted with alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of
or at least 50%.
        19.     The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the tissue matrix is
contacted with alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of
or at least 60%.
        20.     The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the tissue matrix is
contacted with alcalase under conditions to produce a drape value of 0.2-0.4.
        21.     The method of any of claims 1-20, wherein the drape test comprises
placing a tissue matrix of a known circular area on top of a circular pedestal having a
known diameter and dividing the projected area of the tissue matrix after it drapes
over the pedestal by the original area of the tissue matrix circle to determine the
drape value.
        22.     An acellular tissue matrix made by the method of any one of claims 1
21.
        23.     A tissue matrix, comprising:
        a porcine acellular tissue matrix having a drape value of less than 0.4.
        24.     The tissue matrix of claim 23, wherein the drape value is less than
0.35.
        25.     The tissue matrix of any of claims 23-24, wherein the drape test
comprises placing a tissue matrix of a known circular area on top of a circular
pedestal having a known diameter and dividing the projected area of the tissue
matrix after it drapes over the pedestal by the original area of the tissue matrix circle
to determine the drape value.
                                             29

        26.     A method for treating a tissue matrix, comprising:
        selecting a dermal tissue matrix; and
        contacting the dermal tissue matrix with alcalase; and
        treating the tissue matrix with radiation, wherein the alcalase is provided
under conditions selected to produce a desired tissue matrix pliability after treatment
with radiation.
        27.     The method of claim 26, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with the
proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not produce an undesirable change in at
least one of tensile strength, tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance, burst
strength, thermal transition temperature, collagenase susceptibility or combinations
thereof.
        28.     The method of any of claims 26-27, wherein the conditions are
selected to provide a substantially maximum increase in tissue pliability.
        29.     The method of any of claims 26-28, wherein the tissue matrix is a non
primate matrix.
        30.     The method of any of claims 26-28, wherein the tissue matrix is a
porcine tissue matrix.
        31.     The method of any of claims 26-30, further including treating the tissue
matrix to removal at least some of the cells and cellular components from the tissue
matrix.
        32.     The method of claim 31, including removal of all the cells and cellular
components from the tissue matrix.
        33.     The method of any of claims 26-32, wherein the tissue matrix is an
acellular tissue matrix.
                                             30

        34.    The method of any of claims 26-33, wherein the tissue pliability is
measured using a drape test that comprises placing a tissue matrix of a known
circular area on top of a circular pedestal having a known diameter and dividing the
projected area of the tissue matrix after it drapes over the pedestal by the original
area of the tissue matrix circle to determine the drape value.
        35.    The method of claim 34, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with
alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of or at least
30%.
        36.    The method of claim 34, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with
alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of or at least
40%.
        37.    The method of claim 34, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with
alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of or at least
50%.
        38.    The method of claim 34, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with
alcalase under conditions to produce reductions in the drape value of or at least
60%.
        39.    The method of claim 34, wherein the tissue matrix is contacted with
alcalase under conditions to produce a drape value of 0.2-0.4.
        40.    The method of any of claims 26-39, wherein the tissue matrix
comprises a dermal tissue matrix.
        41.    The method of any of claims 26-39, wherein the radiation comprises E
beam radiation.
        42. The method of any of claims 26-39, wherein the radiation comprises
gamma radiation.
                                             31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
