Now on the motor market, all the vehicles can be divided into three
categories:
1. Engine cars
2. Electric cars
3. Hybrid cars
The vehicles set up by this invention; it can be seen as a fourth type of car.
It is very unique, different motor vehicle driving principle from other
categories cars on the market. Its most significant features are simple
technology, easy to manufacture, low cost. The maintenance is also much
easier. I believe there will be some competitiveness in market.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

In order to reduce emissions and protect the environment, electric cars
came into being. Electric vehicles are driven by electricity, it can achieve
zero emissions in theory, but the disadvantage is the low mileage, long time
charging, the bulky heavy weight battery, so that the promotion of electric
vehicles is limited. Therefore, hybrid vehicles come into being (like Toyota
Pruis). Hybrid vehicle is a solution to the problem of electric vehicles.
However, there are some disadvantages of the hybrid vehicle, such as
higher technical difficulty, complex structure and high production cost. This
invention introduces a simple low-cost hybrid vehicle, which has the low
technical threshold, simple structure, and low cost advantages, just make
up for the shortcomings of the hybrid vehicles.
Features:
The three-phase alternator is driven by an internal combustion engine, then
alternator directly drives a three-phase AC motor (this motor is a pole
variable AC motor). The block diagram is as follows:
          Internal combustion engine --> Alternator --> AC motor
The structure is simplified a lot due to remove the bulky size and weight of
the battery. This invention greatest feature is the use of changes in engine
speed so that the alternator emits different frequencies current to replace
the usual battery DC-AC inverter to achieve the motor Speed. The
alternator emits sine-wave AC electricity that is better than non-sinusoidal
AC electricity emitted by the DC-AC inverter. As we know, the induction
motor speed is determined by the power frequency. The alternator
frequency depends on the engine speed. The foot throttle can control
engine speed, so as to drive the alternator to send out different frequency
AC to make the motor get different speed. It can meet the different speed
requirements of the vehicle running on road. That is consistent with the
traditional car driving habits, the more accelerator pedal, the more motor
speed, and the other way around.

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

Let us compare it with traditional cars
1. Compare with the hybrid car:
The technical threshold is low, the structure is simple, and the cost is low.
In the solution, the alternator directly drive motor is more efficient than the
battery driven motor. The DC output from the battery is converted into a
non-sinusoidal AC by the inverter. This will produce higher harmonics,
resulting in motor more temperature and reduce efficiency. The program is
that alternator issue frequency-variable sine-wave AC, there is no higher
harmonics cause induction motor copper consumption, help to reduce
temperature and improve the motor efficiency. The program can also be
equipped with the battery like normal hybrid car, such as in the case of red
light stopping, as the engine has been running, but the vehicle has stopped
moving, this time the alternator can send the electricity to charge battery
for saving energy. The diagram as shown below:
     Engine--Alternator-> Batteryb DC-AC Inverter4AC motor
                    I
The battery with this solution is just an auxiliary function. Under normal
driving conditions, the alternator directly drives the motor because the
sinusoidal AC power must be better than the non-sinusoidal AC output of
the battery inverter, only when the traffic is jam and the speed is slow in
the case of frequent stopping. When the battery is fully charged, the engine
can be turned off and the vehicle is driven by battery, so as to achieve the
energy-saving emission reduction effect. When the traffic smooth, motor
immediately restore the alternator directly driving, the motor then obtain
high power output. Therefore, the car adopting this scheme does not need
a large capacity battery like a hybrid car, because the battery temporarily
substitutes the alternator for low power output only when the vehicle runs
slowly. It can still achieve the effect of weight loss and cost reduction.
2. Compare with the common engine car:
The program can be coupled with a variable-pole AC motor, you can save
the gearbox, because at low speeds, the internal combustion engine output

torque is not enough, easy to turn off when the load is heavy. When the car
is low speed running, the gearbox can let engine at high speed to achieve
low-speed output, so the traditional car gearbox is essential. But the motor
output torque depends on the load, the load increases, the speed will
reduce the output torque also increases. This motor features make it does
not require gearbox, the motor pole-variable is similar to the gearbox shift.
In addition, the output of the engine with only one alternator, the load is
relatively stable, compared with the average car engine, this program
engine does not need too strict and high technology processing
requirements, the manufacturing process is relatively simple end easy, with
a alternator and motor instead of the gearbox, and you can also save that
charger (that is, for the lead-acid battery charging), if using two small
motors directly drive the two rear wheels, also can save the differential and
cardan shaft when compared with rear-wheel drive traditional cars.
3. Compare with the electric car:
The invention has the advantages of low cost, high efficiency and long
mileage. The invention saves the large capacity battery and reduces the
cost. In addition, the invention drives the motor by the sine-wave
alternating current with higher efficiency than the non-sinusoidal
alternating current by the battery DC-AC inverter. The advantage is obvious.

