                                             ABSTRACT
   An apparatus for filling the basket (20) of a portafilter (21) of an espresso machine with a
   predetermined dose of coffee grounds and for pressing it within the portafilter comprises a
 5 frame (51) having a front wall (15), a support device (24) for supporting the portafilter (21),
   which projects out of said front wall (15), and upon which the portafilter (21) is placed, a first
   emplacement (A), configured on said support, in which said portafilter (21) is placed for
   filling a predetermined dose of coffee grounds in its basket (20), a conduit (16) with its
   opening (23) facing said first emplacement (A) configured on the support, a dispenser device
 0 (19) for dispensing coffee grounds and cause a predetermined dose of coffee grounds to reach
   the basket (20) of the portafilter, through said conduit (16), a second emplacement (B),
   configured on said support (24), in which said portafilter (21) is positioned with the basket
   (20) filled with the predetermined dose of coffee grounds, upon displacement thereof from
   said first emplacement (A), a pressing device (12) for pressing the coffee grounds,
 5 mechanical means (13, 14, 48) for supporting said pressing device in cantilever fashion from
   said frame (15), in a vertically aligned position above said second emplacement (B) as well as
   motor means (52, 54, 55) for moving it toward and away from the dose of coffee grounds
   contained in the basket (20) of the portafilter.
   Figure 1
20

               1/9
                               10
                                9
                                8
        141
                                    6
17                                  13
                                     7
 15                                   12
                         -   -       24
   16                                26
                                  B
                                30
                        28 27
      2  A  323 3225 31
             Fig. 1

                                                    1
   Title: "Apparatus for pressing a dose of coffee within the portafilter"
   This application claims priority from Italian Application No. 10<removed-apn>741 filed on 2
   December 2016, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by this
 5 reference.
                                            DESCRIPTION
       The present invention relates to an apparatus for filling the basket of a portafilter of an
   espresso machine with a predetermined dose of coffee grounds and for pressing it within the
   portafilter
 0 As is known in espresso preparation, in addition to the particle size of the coffee grounds, the
   pressing degree of the coffee powder constituting the dose in the portafilter, and the
   uniformity with which pressing is distributed throughout the area defined by the basket of the
   portafilter, have a key role for obtaining a quality beverage.
   Thus, if coffee grounds are not pressed with an adequate degree of compression and with an
 5 uniform distribution throughout the dose, there is the risk that, when pressurized hot water is
   introduced into the portafilter for forming the beverage, then it may find preferred passages
   and flow through the dose of coffee grounds with an inadequate flow rate for proper
   extraction of coffee flavors from the overall amount of coffee that forms the dose, thereby
   providing a beverage of unsatisfactory quality.
20 Therefore, when the dose of coffee grounds is introduced into the basket of the portafilter, it
   should be compressed to a given degree of compression.
   In practice optimum flavor extraction effectiveness and hence optimum beverage quality may
   be achieved by applying a force of 15 to 25 Kgf on the surface of the dose of coffee grounds
   in the basket of a portafilter.
25 Assuming that the surface area to be pressed in a portafilter is about 24 cm 2 , the compression

                                                  2
                                                                      22
   pressure on the coffee grounds ranges on average from 0.6 Kgf/cm to 1.05 Kgf/cm2 .
   In the most typical prior art applications, pressure is manually applied to the dose of coffee
   powder by the operator of the coffee machine, the so-called "barista", using a pestle
   composed of a disk having a diameter substantially equal to that of the opening of the basket
 5 of the portafilter, and a handle thereon which is designed to be held to exert the compression
   force.
   With this manual technology, the degree of compression applied to the dose of coffee grounds
   may change from time to time, and consistent optimum results can only rely on the skills of
   the operator.
 0 The barista may simply inadvertently lay the pestle on the coffee grounds in a position in
   which it is not parallel to the bottom of the basket of the portafilter for compression to be
   distributed unevenly throughout the dose.
   In an attempt to maximize consistent and uniform distribution of the degree of compression
   received by the dose of coffee grounds in the basket of the portafilter, and in order that the
 5 operator may avoid the continuous physical exercise associated with manual compression of
   the dose, which is particularly hard with peak customer flows, the prior art also suggests
   mechanical compression devices.
    One example of a mechanical compression device which uses the elastic energy released by a
   spring on a pestle member, and loaded as the device is moved toward the dose of coffee
20 grounds, is disclosed in WO 2014/203073 Al.
   Further examples of mechanical devices for compressing the dose of coffee grounds in a
   portafilter are disclosed in DE 10 2014 019778 and NL 2007126.
   In accordance with these prior art examples, the compression force exerted by a pestle on the
   dose of coffee grounds is generated by a hydraulic cylinder structure connected to the shaft of
25 the pestle and by means of a rack-and-pinion mechanism respectively.

                                                    3
   The prior art has also suggested examples of equipment which, in addition to compressing the
   dose of coffee grounds within the basket of the portafilter, also fill the dose of coffee grounds
   beforehand without having to move the portafilter from the apparatus that dispenses the dose
   with a given particle size and in a given amount, and place it in a different apparatus in which
 5 compression is carried out.
   Exemplary embodiments of this technique are disclosed in WO 2012/045112 Al and EP 1
   126 774 Al.
   In accordance with the technology as disclosed in the above-mentioned prior art documents, it
   shall be noted that the pestle for exerting compression on the dose of coffee grounds is in the
 0 form of a helical element located at the end of a rotary shaft.
   This helical element is within the basket of the portafilter when the latter is placed on the
   apparatus with said shaft having the helical element perpendicular above the emplacement of
   the portafilter, even before being filled with the dose of coffee grounds.
   Therefore, the flow of coffee grounds can only reach the basket of the portafilter once it has
 5 passed the helical elements of the pestle, with the latter later exerting its compression by
   being rotated by a motor connected to its support shaft.
   Therefore, although this prior art uses a single apparatus to fill the basket of the portafilter
   with a dose of coffee grounds and also compressing said dose, while maintaining the position
   of the portafilter unchanged during both operations, the prior art is found in practice to cause
20 the drawback that the amount of the dose of coffee grounds is changed at every dispensing
   event to the basket of the portafilter and compression thereon also changes from the proper
   nominal value that this dose has when it is dispensed by the grinder-doser and is sent to the
   basket of the portafilter.
   This is because part of the coffee flow is lost on the surfaces of the helical element of the
25 pestle and sticks therewith and does not contribute to form the amount designed to be

                                                     4
   compressed.
   Since espresso preparation doses are just a few grams, even the loss of very small and also
   uncontrollable amounts causes dispensing of beverages having an unsatisfactory, inconsistent
   taste.
 5 The object of the present invention is to obviate the drawbacks of the above-mentioned prior
   art by providing an apparatus that can fill the basket of a portafilter for espresso coffee
   machines with a predetermined dose of coffee grounds and also compresses the filled dose, in
   the same apparatus, without the risk of losing even the smallest amount of coffee powder that
   forms the dose, while maintaining a consistent quality of the beverage being dispensed.
 0 This and other objects, as better explained hereafter, are fulfilled by an apparatus for filling
   the basket of a portafilter of an espresso machine with a predetermined dose of coffee
   grounds and for pressing it within the portafilter, which is characterized by claim 1 below.
   The invention will be now described in greater detail with reference to certain embodiments
   thereof, given by way of illustration and without limitation, and shown in the annexed
 5 drawings, in which:
   - Figure 1 shows an overall perspective view of the apparatus of the invention in a first
   embodiment thereof without the portafilter on the support;
   - Figure 2 shows a partial vertically sectional view of the apparatus of Figure 1 with a
   portafilter on the support device in the filling station for a dose of coffee grounds;
20 - Figure 3 shows a schematic perspective view of the portafilter supporting device with the
   first emplacement and the second emplacement configured in aligned relationship on the
   same horizontal plane;
   - Figure 4 shows a schematic perspective view of the pressing device for pressing the dose of
   coffee grounds and the associated motor means for moving the device toward and away from
25 the dose of coffee grounds;

                                                     5
   - Figure 5 shows a schematic perspective front view of the pressing device of figure 4 located
   in in vertical aligned relationship below said second emplacement of the portafilter;
   - Figure 6 shows a longitudinal sectional view of the pressing device for pressing the coffee
   dose;
 5 - Figure 7 shows a perspective view of a construction member that is part of the enclosure of
   the pressing device;
   - Figure 8 shows a partial front view of the apparatus of the invention with the portafilter
   supporting device formed according to a second embodiment and with a portafilter located in
   the filling station for a dose of coffee grounds;
 0 - Figure 9 shows a partial perspective view of the apparatus of the invention with the
   portafilter supporting device formed according to the second embodiment and with a
   portafilter located in the compression station for the dose of coffee grounds;
   - Figure 10 is a vertically sectional schematic view of the apparatus of Figure 9.
   Referring to the above figures and particularly to Figure 1, the apparatus of the invention has
 5 been designated by numeral 1 as a whole.
   It comprises a base 2, with conventional height-adjustable support feet 3. The outer structure
   of the apparatus comprises the sides 4 and 5 as well as the front panel 6, with an opening 7
   formed therein for access to the operating parts of the apparatus as described in greater detail
   below.
20 The top is closed by a cover 8, which has a container 9 with its own lid, mounted thereupon,
   as is known in the art.
   Such container 9 is designed to contain roasted coffee beans and to carry out the task of a
   hopper to provide the beams to be ground, upon request by the electronic operating system of
   the apparatus, into an underlying coffee grinding and dosing device which, for the purposes
25 of the present invention, shall be deemed to be of fully conventional type.

                                                   6
   In a correspondingly conventional manner, a control panel 11, e.g. of electronic type, is
   placed on the front wall 6, for actuating and adjusting the various functions of the apparatus.
   Namely, the panel 11 may comprise a CPU control unit, which is conventional and is not
   shown herein.
 5  Also particularly referring to Figure 1, a device 12 for pressing the dose of coffee grounds is
   shown at the opening 7 of the front panel 6, and is mounted to the end 13 of an arm 14 which
   extends in cantilever fashion from the front wall 15 of the inner frame of the apparatus 1.
   At such opening 7 a vertical conduit 16 is also shown, which is supported by the front wall 15
   by stems 17.
 0 Also referring to Figure 2, such conduit 16 is connected to a chute 18 through which a
   predetermined dose of coffee grounds falls by gravity into the basket 20 of a portafilter 21
   from a conventional vibrating grinding-dosing device 19, which is equipped with a
   conventional operating handle 22 located at the discharge opening 23 of the conduit 16.
    Referring now to both Figure 1 and Figure 2, at the opening 7, the apparatus of the invention
 5 comprises a support, generally referenced 24 in Figure 1 which, according to a first
   embodiment, comprises the walls 25 and 26 arranged in side-by-side spaced relationship,
   with a gap 27 formed therebetween.
   A plate 28 is placed at the base of the apparatus for collecting the coffee that may regularly
   fall into the portafilter 21.
20 A fork element, attached to a support 29 which is in turn connected to the wall 15 of the
   frame by a screw 29a, has tines 30 and 31.
   Said tines 30 and 31 of the fork element, as shown in Figure 3, support the walls 25 and 26 of
   the support 24 respectively, in height-adjustable fashion, using slots and fastening screws,
   such as those referenced 32 and 33 in Figures 1, 2 and 3.
25 Therefore, the support 24 may be adjusted in its vertical position relative to the wall 15 of the

                                                     7
   frame.
   It is also configured with a first emplacement A for the portafilter 21 in which, as shown in
   figure 2, the corresponding basket 20 is located at the discharge opening 23 of the conduit 16
   and is ready to receive a predetermined dose of coffee grounds.
 5 The same support 24 is also configured to define a second emplacement B for the portafilter
   21, as shown in figure 1, so that it will be located at the device 12 for compressing the dose of
   coffee grounds received in the basket 20 when the portafilter was in the first emplacement A
   below the conduit 16.
   The displacement of the portafilter 21 from first emplacement A, where filling of the dose of
 0 coffee grounds takes place, to the second emplacement B where compression of such dose is
   carried out, is performed manually by the operator, i.e. the barista, by simply having the
   portafilter 21 slide on the support 24 between the first and the second emplacements, which
   are configured in aligned relationship to each other on one horizontal plane extending in the
   direction perpendicular to the wall 15 of the frame.
 5 For easier positioning of the portafilter 21, the emplacements A and B can be preferably
   identified by mechanical abutments, such as bosses formed on the surface of the support 24
   upon which the portafilter 21 is caused to slide, such abutments not being shown in the
   drawings as they are not conventional.
   Referring to figures 4, 5, 6 and 7, the pressing device 12, which is mounted to the end 13 of
20 the arm 14, comprises a pestle 34 with a corresponding shaft 35.
   The latter vertically extends in a cylindrical enclosure 36 having a slit 37 formed in its wall,
   with at least one section extending with a helical cam profile 38. A roller 39 is slidingly
   engaged in said slit 37 with the function of a cam follower, as further discussed below.
   The shaft 35 comprises a disk 40, which is rigidly joined thereto and is designed to axially
25 abut the facing end of the enclosure 36, during compression of the dose of coffee grounds in

                                                    8
   the portafilter, as further explained below.
   Particularly referring to Figure 6, the pressing device 12 also comprises a spring 41, which is
   mounted coaxial with the section 35a of the shaft 35 located within the enclosure 36 and
   extending between the bottom wall 42 of the cylindrical enclosure 36 and an annular
 5 abutment member 43 that is fitted on the section 35a of the shaft 35.
   The end portion 35b of the shaft 35 is attached by an axial screw 44, with an interposed
   washer 45, to the cylindrical body 46 that is part of the end 13 of the arm 14 having the
   pressing device 12 attached thereto.
   The aforementioned cylindrical body 46 has the roller 39 that acts as a cam follower in the
 0 helical slit 37 of the cylindrical enclosure mounted thereto, transverse to its vertical axis.
   As shown in Figure 6, front bearings 47 are placed between the annular abutment member 43
   and the cylindrical body 46, allowing the shaft 35 and its pestle 34 to perform an angular
   movement about their longitudinal axis.
   Such angular movement occurs as a result of the axial displacement imparted to the pestle 34
 5 during pressing, when it contacts the surface the dose of coffee grounds with which the basket
   20 of the portafilter 21 has been filled, as a result of the engagement of the roller 39 with the
   helical profile 38 of the window 37 on the cylindrical enclosure 36.
   Particularly referring to Figures 4 and 5 it shall be noted that the arm 14 having the pressing
   device 12 connected at its end 13 is carried by a horizontal bar 48, which is mounted to a
20 support frame 49, 50 that can be displaced vertically relative to a base 51 that is part of the
   inner frame of the apparatus.
   The movement of the bar 48 that causes the pressing device 12 to move toward and away
   from the dose of coffee grounds in the basket 20 of the portafilter, thereby allowing pressing
   to occur, is obtained by means of a rack 52 carried by a vertical column 53 placed on the
25 base 51, and a pinion 54 that engages with the rack 52, and is driven by an electric motor 55,

                                                  9
   the latter being mounted to a frame 56 rigidly coupled to the frame 50.
   A rod 57 that is rigidly joined to the bar 48 and able to slide within a hole 58 formed in the
   plate 59 rigidly coupled to the frame 50, helps to maintain a horizontal orientation of the bar
   48 as it moves vertically.
 5 Referring to Figures 8, 9 and 10, a second embodiment of the support 24 will be now
   described, in which said first and second emplacements A and B for positioning the portafilter
   21 are configured on respective horizontal planes which are in superimposed and vertically
   spaced relationship to each other.
   According to this embodiment, the support 24 comprises the side walls 60 and 61, attached in
 0 cantilevered fashion to the wall 15 of the inner frame of the apparatus, and a fork element 62
   with tines 63 and 64.
   The fork element 62 is also attached in cantilevered fashion to the wall 15 of the inner frame
   of the apparatus by means of screws 65 for vertical position adjustment, such that the right
   position under the opening 23 of the conduit 16 can be found for proper positioning of the
 5 portafilter 21.
   Therefore, the tines 63 and 64 define the emplacement A for filling the basket 20 of the
   portafilter 21 with the dose of coffee grounds, the portafilter being placed for this purpose on
   the tines 63 and 64 as shown in figure 8.
   The second emplacement, namely the emplacement B where the dose of coffee grounds is
20 pressed, according to the second embodiment of the support 24, is configured by the guides
   66 and 67 formed on the facing inner sides of the walls 60 and 61 at the top sides of such
   walls 60 and 61.
   The portafilter 21 is manually positioned in 66 and 67 and the dose of coffee grounds is later
   pressed by moving the pressing device 12 toward and away from it.
25 Therefore, according to the above discussed embodiment, said second emplacement B is

                                                     10
   configured on a horizontal plane other than that designed for the emplacement A for filling
   the basket 20 of the portafilter 21, which is vertically displaced relative to it.
   In both embodiments of the support 24, the emplacements A and B that have been configured
   thereon are intended to be equipped with sensors SA and SB that detect both the presence of
 5 the portafilter in the given position, and its proper orientation in space.
   Preferably but without limitation these sensors are placed on the vertical wall 15 of the inner
   frame of the apparatus 1.
   In addition, these sensors may incorporate the functionality of reading certain codes on the
   portafilter, allowing them to derive the commands to be given to the members for dispensing
 0 the doses of coffee grounds and of determining the pressing operation in the emplacement B
   and stopping it, as soon as the target compression value has been reached, e.g. by reading and
   decoding an energy absorption signal by the members for moving the compression device 12
   relative to the dose of coffee grounds.
   The operation of the apparatus, in both the first and second embodiments of the portafilter
 5 support, is self-evident from the above description thereof.
   In both embodiments, once the portafilter 21 has been placed in the first emplacement A, the
   sensor of this emplacement, as mentioned above, indicates the presence of the portafilter and
   instructs to fill the predetermined target dose of coffee grounds by acting upon the designated
   actuator means via a conventional CPU.
20 Once dose filling has been terminated, the portafilter is moved by the operator, i.e the barista,
   from the emplacement A to the emplacement B, where the corresponding sensor detects its
   presence and determines that the device 12 has moved against the dose of coffee grounds in
   the basket 20 of the portafilter 21.
   As the pestle 34 contacts the free surface of the dose of coffee grounds and is still lowered
25 due to the rotation of the pinion 54 on the rack 52, the coffee powder is axially compressed

                                                    11
   and the pestle is rotated about the axis of its shaft 35 as the cam connection between the roller
   39 carried by the cylindrical body 46 and the helical profile 38 in the enclosure 36, also
   causes an angular displacement of the pestle preferably, but without limitation, through 45'.
   The compression of the dose of coffee grounds ends when the CPU of the apparatus detects a
 5 given current absorption by the motor members for actuating the pressing device 12, such
   absorption corresponding to the achievement of a given force, e.g. 20 Kgf, applied by the
   pressing device 12 to the surface of the dose of coffee within the filter holder.
   Obviously, the CPU of the apparatus can store various current absorption values
   corresponding to as many pressing values achieved in the dose of coffee depending on the
 0 type of coffee that has been used, on the favorite recipe by the operator, i.e the barista, or on
   the type of portafilter.
   As the compression operation has been terminated, the portafilter is ready to be attached to
   the dispenser unit of an espresso machine, which is designed to deliver the beverage.
   Therefore , the apparatus of the invention fulfills both purposes of filling the basket of the
 5 portafilter with a predetermined dose of coffee grounds whose quantitative value can be
   effectively consistent and of carrying out a predetermined pressing operation, in a single
   apparatus.
   The invention is susceptible of variant embodiments, which may be other than those
   expressly mentioned in the foregoing description, without departure from the scope of the
20 following claims.

                                               12
                                          CLAIMS
   1) An apparatus for filling the basket (20) of a portafilter (21) of an espresso machine
      with a predetermined dose of coffee grounds and for pressing it within the portafilter,
      characterized in that it comprises a frame (51) having a front wall (15), a support
 5    device (24) for supporting the portafilter (21), which projects out of said wall (15),
      and upon which the portafilter (21) is placed, a first emplacement (A), configured on
      said support, in which said portafilter (21) is placed for filling a predetermined dose of
      coffee grounds in its basket (20), a conduit (16) with its opening (23) facing said first
      emplacement (A) configured on the support, a dispenser device (19) for dispensing
 0    coffee grounds and cause a predetermined dose of coffee grounds to reach the basket
      (20) of the portafilter, through said conduit (16), a second emplacement (B),
      configured on said support (24), in which said portafilter (21) is positioned with the
      basket (20) filled with the predetermined dose of coffee grounds, upon displacement
      thereof from said first emplacement (A), a pressing device (12) for pressing the coffee
 5    grounds, mechanical means (13,        14, 48) for supporting said pressing device in
      cantilever fashion from said frame (15), in a vertically aligned position above said
      second emplacement (B) as well as motor means (52, 54, 55) for moving it toward and
      away from the dose of coffee grounds contained in the basket (20) of the portafilter.
   2) An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said first (A) and second (B)
20    emplacements for positioning the portafilter (21) on the support (24) are configured in
      aligned relationship on a common horizontal plane and can be identified by
      abutments, said alignment extending perpendicular to said front wall (15) of the
      frame.
   3) An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said first (A) and second (B)
25    emplacements for positioning the portafilter (21) on the support are configured on

                                               13
      respective horizontal planes located one above the other and at a vertical distance
      from each other.
   4)  An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that said front wall
      (15) of said frame comprises at least one sensor (SA) suitable for detecting the
 5    presence and/or the type of said portafilter (21) when the latter is in said first
      emplacement (A) of the support (24).
   5) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said front wall
      (15) of said frame also comprises a sensor (SB) suitable for detecting the presence of
      said portafilter (21) when the latter is in said second emplacement (A) of the support
 0    (24).
   6) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that said frame
      comprises a monitoring and control panel (11) connected to said sensors (SA, SB), to
      the dispenser device (19) for dispensing coffee grounds, as well as motor means (55)
      for driving said pressing device (12).
 5 7) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that said support
      device (24) for supporting the portafilter (21) comprises mechanical means (32, 33,
      65) for adjusting its position on said front wall (15) of the frame from which it
      projects.
   8) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that said pressing
20    device (12) is supported in a vertically aligned position above said emplacement (B)
      of the portafilter (21) by a housing (36) supported in cantilever fashion by an arm (14,
      48) that juts out of said front wall (15) of the frame (51), said arm (14, 48) being
      supported by said frame (51) through a column (53) with a rack (52) and pinion (54),
      guide members (57, 58) being provided for mutual vertical rectilinear displacement of
25    said arm (14, 48) toward and away from said second emplacement (B) of the

                                                14
       portafilter (21).
   9) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that said pressing
       device (12) for pressing said predetermined dose of coffee grounds in the basket (20)
       of the portafilter (21) comprises a pressing member in the form of a pestle (34) whose
 5     stem (35) is slidingly mounted within said housing (36) supported in cantilever
       fashion by said arm (14, 48), said stem (35) being engaged with a cam mechanism
       (38, 39), against elastic means (41), said cam mechanism having a profile (38)
       comprising at least one helical portion which imparts an angular displacement to the
       pestle (34) in both directions, as a result of the axial displacement of the stem (35) and
 0     the enclosure (36), when said pressing device (12) is moved toward and away from
       the surface of the coffee grounds in the basket (20) of the portafilter (21) to cause
       pressing thereof.
   10) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 o 9, wherein said angular displacement of
       the pestle is a 450 displacement.
 5 11) An apparatus as claimed in any of claims I to 10, wherein compression of the dose of
       coffee grounds stops when a given electric current absorption value is reached by the
       motor members designed to operate said pressing device (12), said absorption being
       detected by the CPU of the apparatus.
   12) An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein said CPU includes a plurality of
20     electric current absorption threshold values stored therein, as determined by the
       members that are designed to operate said pressing device (12), each value of said
       plurality of values corresponding to respective pressing force values, ranging from 15
       Kgf to 25 Kgf, applied to the dose of coffee grounds in the portafilter.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
