                                              6
                                         ABSTRACT
The utility model discloses a dual-power ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent
community, comprising an elevator car, an air discharge box, a filter, an electric blower
and a wheeled blower, wherein the air discharge box is disposed in an interlayer of the
elevator car, the filter is disposed in the interlayer at the top of the inner wall, ventilation
pipes are connected with the filter, the electric blower and the wheeled blower are fixed
onto two sides of the top of the elevator car respectively, the ventilation pipes are connected
with the electric blower and the wheeled blower respectively via a same air guide pipe, a
support rod is installed on one side of the wheeled blower, a rubber wheel is installed on
the support rod, and the rubber wheel drives the wheeled blower via a conveyor belt. The
utility model is simple in structure and has a reasonable design; dual-power is provided
through a combined action of the electric blower and the wheeled blower so that enough
fresh air is provided to the elevator car; meanwhile, the smoke and other dirty gases in the
elevator can be discharged effectively while also having the effect of purifying the air, thus
effectively protecting the quality of the air breathed by people inside the elevator car.

             1/1
   12
13                 7
                     10
11    5
        3
                        1
              9
          Figure 1

                                                 1
        DUAL-POWER VENTILATED SMOKE-PROOF ELEVATOR CAR FOR
                                INTELLIGENT COMMUNITY
This application claims       the benefit   of priority to Chinese Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>03.7 titled "Dual-Power Ventilated Smoke-Proof Elevator Car for Intelligent
Community", filed with the Chinese State Intellectual Property Office on January 23, 2017, the
entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Technical Field
[01]     The utility model relates to the field of elevator, and in particular to a dual-power
ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent community.
Background
[02]     Currently, with social progress and the improvement of people's living standard,
community residents' requirements on inhabiting environment are also increased. Especially,
intelligent communities with higher degree of intelligentization that have arisen with the
process of urbanization have posed higher intelligentization and humanization design
requirements on the construction facilities therein. In particular, as the elevator industry
continues to evolve and safety awareness and overall quality are being improved, the
requirements on structural design and corresponding functions of the elevator car are becoming
higher and higher, and many elevator cars require that a fire door and fire and smoke prevention
devices be provided. However, such highly demanding elevators are mostly used in harsh
environments and cannot meet the humanization requirements of residents in intelligent
communities. For elevators in residential areas and commercial areas, there are various kinds
of passengers, and many low quality people may smoke inside the elevator, or there are too
many people in the elevator, or the elevator cannot be opened for a long time due to power
failure, thus resulting in poor air quality in the elevator and lack of oxygen, and leading to
difficulty in breathing of people. Although existing elevators all have an air-conditioning
structure, the structure is complicated in structure and has a high cost.

                                                  2
Summary
[03]     The object of the utility model is to provide a dual-power ventilated smoke-proof
elevator car for intelligent community so as to solve the problems mentioned in the above
background section.
[04]     To achieve the above object, the utility model provides the following technical solution:
[05]     A dual-power ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent community,
comprising an elevator car, an air discharge box, a filter, an electric blower and a wheeled
blower, wherein the elevator car comprises an inner wall and an outer wall, between which an
interlayer is formed, the air discharge box is disposed in the interlayer of the elevator car, the
filter is disposed in the interlayer at the top of the inner wall, ventilation pipes are connected
with the filter, the electric blower and the wheeled blower are fixed onto two sides of the top
of the elevator car respectively, the ventilation pipes are connected with the electric blower and
the wheeled blower respectively via a same air guide pipe, a support rod is installed on one
side of the wheeled blower, a rubber wheel is installed on the support rod, and the rubber wheel
drives the wheeled blower via a conveyor belt.
[06]     As a further solution of the utility model, there are three air discharge boxes, which are
disposed in three side interlayers of the elevator car respectively.
[07]     As a further solution of the utility model, the electric blower is a system-controlled
induction electric blower.
[08]     As compared with the prior art, the utility model has the following advantages: the
utility model is simple in structure and has a reasonable design; air is blown into the elevator
car at the same of passing through the electric blower and the wheeled blower, and then is
filtered so that enough fresh air is provided to the elevator car; meanwhile, the smoke and other
dirty gases in the elevator can be discharged effectively while also having the effect of
purifying the air, thus effectively protecting the quality of the air breathed by people inside the
elevator car. Through the above intelligentized design, the humanization requirements on the
elevator car are improved, and the requirements on the comfort of residents riding the elevator
in intelligent community are satisfied.
Brief Description of Drawings
[09]     Figure 1 is a schematic view of the structure of a dual-power ventilated smoke-proof
elevator car for intelligent community.

                                                   3
[010] In the figure: 1: elevator car; 2: inner wall; 3: air discharge box; 4: rubber wheel; 5: air
guide pipe; 6: filter; 7: ventilation pipe; 8: outer wall; 9: interlayer; 10: electric blower: 11:
support rod; 12: wheeled blower; 13: conveyor belt.
Detailed Description
[011]   The technical solutions of the embodiments of the utility model will be described
clearly and fully below with reference to the accompanying drawing of the embodiments of the
utility model. Obviously, the described embodiment is merely some but not all the
embodiments of the utility model. All the other embodiments obtained by those skilled in the
art based on the embodiment of the utility model without creative efforts shall fall within the
scope of protection of the utility model.
[012]   With reference to Figure 1, in the embodiment of the utility model, a dual-power
ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent community comprises an elevator car 1, air
discharge boxes 3, a filter 6, an electric blower 10 and a wheeled blower 12, wherein the
elevator car 1 comprises an inner wall 2 and an outer wall 8, between which an interlayer 9 is
formed, the air discharge boxes 3 are disposed in three side interlayers 9 of the elevator car I
respectively, the filter 6 is disposed in the interlayer 9 at the top of the inner wall 2, ventilation
pipes 7 are connected with the filter 6, the electric blower 10 and the wheeled blower 12 are
fixed onto two sides of the top of the elevator car 1 respectively, the ventilation pipes 7 are
connected with the electric blower 10 and the wheeled blower 12 respectively via a same air
guide pipe 5, the electric blower 10 is a system-controlled induction electric blower, a support
rod 11 is installed on one side of the wheeled blower 12, a rubber wheel 4 is installed on the
support rod 11, and the rubber wheel 4 drives the wheeled blower 12 via a conveyor belt 13.
[013] During the ascending or descending process of the elevator car 1, the elevator car 1 has
a certain velocity relative to the air, so the air is moving relative to the elevator car 1. The air
outside the elevator car 1 has a certain velocity, and the air pressure of the air is therefore
reduced; whereas the air pressure inside the elevator car I is relatively large, and the air in the
elevator car 1 is pushed out of the elevator car 1, so that the air or smoke in the elevator car 1
is discharged.
[014]   When the elevator car 1 is ascending or descending, friction occurs between the rubber
wheel 4 and a guide rail, the rubber wheel 4 rapidly rotates and drives the wheeled air blower
12 to operate, and the airflow generated by the electric blower 12 enters the elevator car 1 after
being filtered by the filter 6; when the elevator car 1 stops moving, the induction electric blower
10 operates automatically due to system control, and the airflow generated enters the elevator

                                                 4
car 1 after being filtered by the filter 6, thus achieving the purpose of filtering and smoke
prevention so as to ensure that the air inside the elevator car 1 is normal.
[015] It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the utility model is not limited to the
details of the foregoing exemplary embodiment, and the utility model may be embodied in
other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the utility
model. Therefore, the embodiment should be considered in all respects as illustrative rather
than limiting, and the scope of the utility model is defined by the appended claims rather than
the foregoing description. Therefore, all the changes that fall within the meaning and range of
the equivalents of the claims are intended to be included in the utility model. Any reference
sign in the claims should not be construed as limiting the claim involved.
[016] In addition, it should be understood that while the specification is described according
to the embodiment, not each embodiment includes only one independent technical solution.
Such description of the specification is merely for the sake of clarity, and those skilled in the
art should consider the specification as a whole. The teclmical solutions in individual
embodiments may also be combined appropriately so as to form other embodiments that can
be understood by those skilled in the art.

                                                  5
CLAIMS:
       1. A dual-power ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent community,
comprising an elevator car, an air discharge box, a filter, an electric blower and a wheeled
blower, wherein the elevator car comprises an inner wall and an outer wall, between which an
interlayer is formed, characterized in that,
       the air discharge box is disposed in the interlayer of the elevator car, the filter is disposed
in the interlayer at the top of the inner wall, ventilation pipes are connected with the filter, the
electric blower and the wheeled blower are fixed onto two sides of the top of the elevator car
respectively, the ventilation pipes are connected with the electric blower and the wheeled
blower respectively via a same air guide pipe, a support rod is installed on one side of the
wheeled blower, a rubber wheel is installed on the support rod, and the rubber wheel drives the
wheeled blower via a conveyor belt.
       2. The dual-power ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent community
according to claim 1, wherein there are three air discharge boxes, which are disposed in three
side interlayers of the elevator car respectively.
       3. The dual-power ventilated smoke-proof elevator car for intelligent community
according to claim 1, wherein the electric blower is a system-controlled induction electric
blower.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
