                                                ABSTRACT
    A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve
   configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to
   close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a
 5 test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon
   initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event,
   supply the close signal to the valve; a failed test module in communication with the test control
   module, comprising a liquid level sensor configured to supply a reset event signal to the test
   control module upon detection of a liquid level reaching a predetermined level in the pump
10 installation; a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module,
   configured to supply a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of current
   supplied to a motor of the pump installation; and, an indicator in electrical communication with
   the test control module, configured to indicate a successful test upon receipt by the test control
   module of the reset event signal from the current sensor.
15

   TEST AND MONITORING SYSTEM FOR A DUAL SUMP PUMP INSTALLATION
   INVENTOR: Eugene M. Cummings
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/908,881
 5 filed on Nov. 26, 2013, and is related to U.S. Design Patent Application No. 29/486,504, filed
   on March 31, 2014, and U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No. 14/281,525 filed on May
   19, 2014, and further incorporates by reference in their entireties the following seven
   contemporaneously filed applications: (1) U.S. application serial number 14/491,135, entitled
   "Test And Monitoring System For A Battery-Powered DC Sump Pump Installation;" (2) U.S.
 0 application seial number 14/491,207, entitled "Test And Monitoring System For A Sump Pump
   Installation Having A Self-Monitoring Valve Module For Admitting Water To The Sump Pit;"
   (3) U.S. application serial number 14/491,238, entitled "Test And Monitoring System For A
    Sump Pump Installation Having A Self-Monitoring Liquid Level Sensing Module;" (4) U.S.
    application serial number 14/491,263, entitled "Test And Monitoring System For A Sump Pump
15  Installation Having A Variable Test Cycle Time Out;" (5) U.S. application serial number
    14/491,294, entitled "Test And Monitoring System For A Sump Pump Installation Including
    Trend Analysis Of Pump Motor Performance;" (6) U.S. application serial number 14/491,349,
    entitled "Test And Monitoring System For A Sump Pump Installation Operable. From A Remote
    Location;" and (7) U.S. application serial number 14/491,377, entitled "Test And Monitoring
?0  System For A Sump Pump Installation Having A Self-Protecting Valve Assembly For Admitting
    Water To The Sump Container."
    This application is a divisional of AU 2014355056, the contents of which are incorporated by
    reference and the reader is directed to that earlier application for aspects described herein but not
    claimed.
25  BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
     [002] The present disclosure relates to an automated system for monitoring and testing sump
    pump installations of the type commonly used in residential and commercial building basements.
     In particular, the disclosure is directed to a monitoring system for a sump pump installation
     which regularly tests and monitors the installation and proactively provides confirmation of a
30   successful test and an alarm in the event of an unsuccessful test, and to improvements therein.
                                                       1

  [003] More specifically, sump pump installations are frequently provided in residential and
  commercial basements to remove ground water that accumulates around foundation footings and
  under the basement floor. To this end, a network of apertured drain tiles or flexible drain hoses is
  laid adjacent to the footings of the foundation walls on either the interior side or the exterior side
5 of the walls, or both. These drain tiles or hoses are appropriately routed and sloped to drain
  accumulated water into one or more sump liners, which typically have inlets connecting with the
  network of drain tiles/hoses and are set in the basement floor to form a sump pit having a bottom
  portion below that of the tiles/hoses. The most commonly used type of sump pumps are
  electrically-powered sump pumps designed to be at least partially submerged by water in the
o sump pit. At least one electrically-powered sump pump is typically positioned in the sump pit
  and, when powered, functions to discharge water from the pit through a discharge pipe to a
  dispersal location, such as a storm sewer or exterior dispersal field. The sump pump typically
  includes a float switch which causes it to operate when the level of ground water (or other liquid)
  in the sump pit has reached a predetermined trigger level, ordinarily set below the lowest inlet in
                                                    2

the liner wall. That float switch also typically terminates operation of the pump when the water
reaches a predetermined minimum level below the trigger level. A check valve prevents water
remaining in the discharge pipe from flowing back into the sump pit.
 [0041      Should the sump pump fail to operate for any reason, such as, for example, motor
failure, pump failure, or power failure, and should the drain network continue to flow ground
water into the sump pit, the pit will often eventually overflow from the top of the sump liner and
flood into the basement. This flooding may result in significant and often costly damage to items
stored in the basement, as well as to existing basement improvements such as finished walls and
furniture.
 [005]      Various monitoring systems have come into use for warning the home or business
owner of an impending overflow of the sump pit. Typically, these rely on a float switch or other
types of liquid level detectors to sense an abnormally high liquid level in the sump pit and to
cause an alarm to be sounded and/or a warning message to be sent to the owner. The drawback
of these systems is that they only function when the pump is already in a condition in which it is
no longer capable of preventing flooding, i.e. when the pump has failed and the pit is about to
overflow. This is frequently too late for corrective action to be taken.
 10061      Another type of monitoring system that has come into use provides an independent
liquid level sensing float switch, or other equivalent liquid level sensing device, in the pit which
functions to supply power to the pump when a predetermined trigger level is reached. The
current drawn by the motor and a fall in the liquid level in the pump is then utilized to confirm
operation of the pump. Unfortunately, an alarm is only sounded at a time when operation of the
pump is required to prevent flooding but the pump does not operate. This, again, may be too late
for any corrective action to be taken.
                                                  3

   [0071       Still other monitoring systems purport to reduce the likelihood of an overflow by
  providing a second back-up pump, typically set at a slightly higher level in the pit so as to
  operate only upon failure of the first pump, or an AC backup power source for the primary
  pump, such as a standby generator or a battery-powered inverter. Other systems provide a
  secondary DC battery-driven pump in the sump pit alongside the primary AC-driven pump.
 Another monitoring system, in addition to providing two pumps in the sump pit, causes the
 pumps to alternate in operation in response to incoming ground water thereby equalizing use
 between the pumps. While the provision of these systems may reduce the likelihood of a system
 failure, they do not proactively identify a pump failure prior to an impending flood event
 requiring immediately operation of the pump.
  [0081       In contrast, the test and monitoring system of the present disclosure along with the
 described improvements therefor periodically confirms the operability of a sump pump
 installation and alerts the owner of a malfunction prior to the sump installation being required to
 operate to discharge drain water. This protective testing gives the owner sufficient time to correct
the malfunction and thereby avoid what might otherwise be a serious basement flooding event.
In the event the test and monitoring system of the disclosure is utilized in a two pump
installation, both pumps are independently tested and monitored, and a failure of either pump, or
both pumps, results in an alarm being sounded and appropriate messages being sent to the owner
and/or the owners' designee(s) by communications channels such as, for example, the Internet,
cell phone data or land line telephone communication channels.
 [0091       Moreover, the regular and automatic testing provided by the test and monitoring
system of the present disclosure has the further benefit of periodically placing any sump pumps
in the monitored system in full operation to actually discharge water from the sump pit, thereby
                                                  4

 helping to prevent seals and bearings in the pump(s) and their motor(s) and associated check
 valve(s) from drying out or binding. Prior monitoring systems are reactive in that they act only in
 the event the monitored sump installation is actually called on to evacuate rising ground water,
 which may be only after extended periods of non-operation.
  10101      Accordingly, it is a general object of the present disclosure to provide an improved
 automatic test and monitoring system for a sump pump installation.
  [011]      It is a more specific object of the present disclosure to provide an automatic sump
 pump test and monitoring system which functions proactively to alert a user to a malfunctioning
 sump pump installation prior to the installation being required to prevent an impending overflow
 and flood condition,
 [0121       It is a still more specific object of the present disclosure to provide a sump pump test
and monitoring system which periodically tests the operation of a sump pump installation and
provides an alarm to the user in the event the installation fails to perform satisfactorily.
 [013]       It is yet another specific object of the disclosure to provide a sump pump test and
monitoring system which regularly admits liquid to the sump pump container of a sump pump
installation to force the sump pump of the installation through a test cycle whereby satisfactory
operation can be verified in advance of any actual need for the pump installation.
 [0141      It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide an improved
automatic test and monitoring system in accord with the above stated objects which is functional
with either or both AC-powered and battery-powered DC sump pumps.
[0151       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved
sump pump test and monitoring system a removable current sensing module for installation on a
                                                     5

  conductor supplying direct current to a DC motor to enable the testing and monitoring of a
 battery-powered sump pump without regard to the duration of current flow.
  [016]       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide a sump pump test
 and monitoring system which incorporates improvements in sensing, control and activation
 circuitry and systems therein to provide improved performance and reliability.
  [017]       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved
 sump pump test and monitoring system an electrically actuated valve module having an
 independently connected flow transducer which provides a fault signal in the event of the valve
 failing in either a closed or in an open condition.
  [018]       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved
 sump pump test and monitoring system a liquid level sensing module having dual independently
 connected float switches wherein the failure of either float switch results in a fault signal, and the
remaining float switch provides a liquid level alarm signal.
 [019]       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved
sump pump test and monitoring system a time out adjustment circuit for causing the time out of a
sump pump test cycle in response to variations in the flow rate of fresh water into the sump
container.
 [020]       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved
sump pump test and monitoring system a circuit for recording and tracking trends and deviations
in the run time and current consumption of a monitored sump pump to provide a warning signal
in advance of a malfunction.
 [021]       It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved
sump pump test and monitoring system a circuit enabling initiation of a sump pump test cycle in
                                                     6

 one or more designated installations from a remote location manually or automatically in advance
 of a weather event having a potential for flooding.
        [022] It is yet another specific object of the present disclosure to provide in an improved sump
pump test and monitoring system a valve safety circuit providing protection against unintended
 actuation of the fill valve module as a result of a failure of the microprocessor by requiring the
microprocessor to independently generate a unique command signal which is recognized by the
 safety circuit prior to activating the valve module.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
        [023] In accordance with a first aspect of the invention, not claimed herein, there is provided
an automated system for testing and monitoring a sump pump installation of the type having a
liquid container, a first electrically driven sump pump which, when actuated by a rising liquid level
in the container, pumps liquid from the container, and a second electrically driven sump pump
which, when actuated by rising liquid level in the container, pumps liquid from the container, the
test and monitoring system comprising: a liquid conduit including an electrically-actuated valve
which, in response to an applied actuation signal, admits fresh water into the container; a test
control module having a first test cycle which inhibits operation of the second pump and applies an
actuating signal to the valve to admit liquid into the container and, to test the first pump discharging
of liquid from the container, the test control module then supplies a valve control signal to stop the
admittance of liquid upon a first predetermined event terminating the first test cycle, and having a
second test cycle which inhibits operation of the first pump and applies an actuating signal to the
valve to admit liquid into the container until the second pump, if functional, pumps liquid from the
container; and, to test the second pump discharging of liquid from the container, the test control
module then supplies a valve control signal to stop the admittance of liquid upon a second
predetermined event terminating the second cycle; and wherein the test control module includes
first and second indicator circuits which indicate for each pump whether the respective first and
second pumps discharged from the container, a portion of the liquid.
       [023A] In accordance with a second aspect of the invention, not claimed herein, there is
provided an automated system for testing and monitoring a sump pump installation of the type
having a liquid container, a first motor driven pump and a second motor driven pump which,
following activation, operate until subsequently deactivated by a predetermined control effect to
pump
                                                      7

liquid from the container, and a pump switch circuit which selectively supplies current to the first
motor driven pump and the second motor driven pump upon sensing the liquid level in the container
having risen to a respective first or second predetermined level, the system comprising: a liquid
conduit connected to an external liquid source and including an electrically-actuated valve which
when open flows liquid from the external source into the container; a test control module which
when actuated: inhibits operation of the second motor driven pump, opens the electrically-actuated
valve to initiate a first test cycle during which liquid flows into the container to cause the liquid
level therein to rise to at least the first predetermined level, after which the first motor driven pump
is activated to pump liquid from the container and the test control module closes the valve to
terminate the flow of liquid into the container, the first motor driven pump continuing to operate
until occurrence of the predetermined control effect; inhibits operation of the first motor driven
pump, opens the electrically-actuated valve to initiate a second test cycle during which liquid flows
into the container to cause the liquid level therein to rise to at least the second predetermined level,
after which the second motor driven pump is activated to pump liquid from the container and the
test control module closes the valve to terminate the flow of liquid into the container, the second
motor driven pump continuing to operate until occurrence of the predetermined control effect; and
wherein the test control module further includes an indicator circuit which indicates a successful
first test upon deactivation of the first motor driven pump, and a successful second test upon
deactivation of the second motor driven pump.
       [023B] In accordance with a third aspect of the invention,           not claimed herein, there is
provided an automated system for testing and monitoring a sump pump installation of the type
having a liquid container, a first motor driven pump and second motor driven pump which,
following activation, operate until subsequently deactivated by a predetermined control effect to
pump liquid from the container, and a pump switch circuit which selectively activates one of the
first motor driven pump and the second motor driven pump by supplying operating current upon
sensing the liquid level in the container having risen to a respective first or second predetermined
level, the system comprising: a liquid conduit connected to an external liquid source and including
an electrically-actuated valve which opens to flow liquid from the external source into the container
in response to an applied valve control signal; a test control module which when actuated: inhibits
operation of the second motor driven pump, applies a valve control signal to the electrically
actuated valve to open the valve to initiate a first test cycle during which liquid flows into the
container                                              to                                           cause
                                                     7A

    1UU44 194UZ
   the liquid level therein to rise to at least the first predetermined level, after which the pump
   switch circuit supplies current to the first motor driven pump to activate the first motor driven
   pump to pump liquid from the container, and the test control module closes the valve to
   terminate the flow of liquid into the container, the pump switch circuit continuing to supply
 5 current to the first motor driven pump causing the first motor driven pump to continue to operate
   until occurrence of the predetermined control effect; inhibits operation of the first motor driven
   pump, applies a valve control signal to the electrically-actuated valve to open the valve to initiate
   a second test cycle during which liquid flows into the container to cause the liquid level therein
   to rise to at least the second predetermined level, after which the pump switch circuit supplies
10 current to the second motor driven pump to activate the second motor driven pump to pump
   liquid from the container, and the test control module closes the valve to terminate the flow of
   liquid into the container, the pump switch circuit continuing to supply current to the second
   motor driven pump causing the second motor driven pump to continue to operate until
   occurrence of the predetermined control effect; wherein the test control module includes a
15 current sensor circuit sensing current supplied to the pump motor by the pump switch circuit; and
   wherein the test control module further includes an indicator circuit which, in response to the
   current sensor sensing the termination of current flow to the first and second motor driven
   pumps, indicates the occurrence of a successful test.
             [023C] In accordance with a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
20 testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
   open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
   the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a test control
   module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test
   cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event, supply the close
25 signal to the valve; a failed test module in communication with the test control module,
   comprising a liquid level sensor configured to supply a reset event signal to the test control
   module upon detection of a liquid level reaching a predetermined level in the pump installation;
   a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to supply a
   reset event signal to the test control module upon'detection of current supplied to a motor of the
30 pump installation; and,an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module,
   configured to indicate a successful test upon receipt by the test control module of the reset event
    signal from the current sensor.
                                                    7B

          [023D] In accordance with a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
   testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
   open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
   the admittance of liquid upon receipt of a close signal; a test control module in electrical
 5 communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open
   signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a predetermined event, supply the close signal to the
   valve; a liquid level sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured
   to provide a signal upon a liquid level reaching a predetermined level in the pump installation;
   and, an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to indicate
10 results of the test cycle.
          [023E] In accordance with a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
   testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
   open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
   the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a test control
15 module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test
   cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event, supply the close
   signal to the valve; a test cycle timer in communication with the test control module, configured
   to start upon initiation of the test cycle, and provide a reset event to the test control module upon
   lapse of a predetermined time corresponding with a time to fill a sump container of the pump
20 installation to a predetermined level; and, an indicator in electrical communication with the test
   control module, configured to indicate results of the test cycle.
          [023F] In accordance with a seventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
   testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
   open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
25 the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a test control
   module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test
   cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event, supply the close
   signal to the valve; a liquid level sensor in communication with the test control module,
   configured to provide a reset event signal to the test control module upon a liquid level reaching
30 a predetermined level in the pump installation; and, an indicator in electrical communication
   with the test control module, configured to indicate a result of the test cycle.
                                                      7C

            [023G] In accordance with an eighth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
     testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
     open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
     the admittance of liquid upon receipt of a close signal; a test control module in electrical
  5  communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open
     signal to the valve; and, upon lapse of a timer corresponding with a time to fill a container of the
    pump installation to a predetermined level, supply the close signal to the valve; and, an indicator
     in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to indicate results of the test
     cycle.
 10         [023H] In accordance with a ninth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
    testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
    open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
    the admittance of liquid upon receipt of a close signal; a test control module in electrical
    communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open
 15 signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a predetermined event, supply the close signal to the
    valve; and, an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    indicate results of the test cycle.
            [02311 In accordance with a tenth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
    testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
 !0 open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
    the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a test control
    module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test
    cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event, supply the close
    signal to the valve; a failed test module in communication with the test control module,
25  configured to supply a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of a failed
    test; a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    supply a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of current supplied to a
    motor of the pump installation; and,an indicator in electrical communication with the test control
    module, configured to indicate a successful test upon receipt by the test control module of the
30  reset event signal from the current sensor.
                                                     7D

          [023J] In accordance with an eleventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a system
   for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured
   to open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to
   stop the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a test control
 5 module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test
   cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event, supply the close
   signal to the valve; a test cycle timer in communication with the test control module, configured
   to start upon initiation of the test cycle, and provide a reset event to the test control module upon
   lapse of a predetermined time; and, an indicator in electrical communication with the test control
10 module, configured to indicate results of the test cycle.
          [023K] In accordance with a twelfth aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
   testing operation of a pump installation, comprising: an electrically-actuated valve configured to
   open to admit liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop
   the admittance of liquid to the pump installation upon receipt of a close signal; a test control
15 module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to: upon initiation of a test
   cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and, upon detection of a reset event, supply the close
    signal to the valve; a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module,
    configured to provide a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of current
    supplied to a motor of a sump pump of the pump installation; and, an indicator in electrical
20  communication with the test control module, configured to indicate a successful test upon the
    reset event signal from the current sensor.
                                                      7E

 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [024]       The present disclosure will be more fully understood by reference to the following
 detailed description of one or more preferred embodiments when read in conjunction with the
 accompanying drawings, in which like referenced characters refer to like elements throughout
 the drawings, and in which:
  [025]       Figure 1 is a simplified cross-sectional view partially in perspective of a conventional
 single sump pump installation having a liquid container, a motor-driven pump, a float switch
 integral to the pump, a pump discharge pipe and a high liquid level alarm.
 [026]        Figure 2 is a simplified cross-sectional view partially in perspective of a single sump
pump installation which incorporates an automated test and monitoring system constructed in
accordance with the present disclosure.
 [027]       Figure 3 is an enlarged perspective view of the solenoid-actuated liquid valve
assembly utilized in the test and monitoring system of Figure 2.
 [028]       Figure 4 is an enlarged cross-sectional view partially in perspective of the solenoid
actuated valve assembly of Figure 3.
 [029]       Figure 5 is an enlarged perspective view in cross section showing the float switch
assembly utilized in the test and monitoring system of Figure 2.
[0301        Figure 6 is an enlarged cross-sectional view partially in perspective of the float switch
utilized in the float switch assembly of Figure 5.
[0311        Figure 7 is an enlarged perspective view of the control module of the sump pump test
and monitoring system of Figure 2 adapted for mounting on a wall or other flat support surface.
                                                    8

  [032]      Figure 8 is an enlarged perspective view in an alternate housing construction for the
 control module of Figure 7 adapted for mounting directly on the discharge pipe of the sump
 pump installation.
  [0331      Figure 9 is a simplified functional block diagram partially in schematic form showing
 the principal components of the test and monitoring system of Figure 2.
  [0341      Figure 10 is a simplified functional block diagram partially in schematic form
 showing the implementation of the test and monitoring system of Figure 9 utilizing a
 microprocessor,
 [035]       Figure 11 is a cross-sectional view partially in perspective showing an automated test
 and monitoring system constructed in accordance with the disclosure in use with a dual pump
sump pump installation.
 [036]       Figure 12 is an enlarged perspective view of the control module utilized in the sump
pump test and monitoring system of Figure 11.
 [037]      Figures 13A and 13B comprise a simplified functional block diagram partially in
schematic form showing the principal components of the test and monitoring system of Figure
 11,
 [038]      Figure 14 is a simplified functional block diagram partially in schematic form
showing the implementation of the sump pump test and monitoring system of Figure 13 utilizing
a microprocessor.
[0391        Figure 15 is a simplified cross-sectional view partially in perspective of a sump
pump test and monitoring system constructed in accordance with the present disclosure and
having a liquid container, a single battery-powered sump pump, an improved electrically
                                                  9

 actuated valve assembly, an improved float switch assembly and a current probe assembly for
 rising current supplied to the pump motor.
 1040]         Figure 16 is an enlarged perspective view of the improved electrically-actuated valve
assembly of Figure 15 showing the solenoid-actuated valve and flow sensor utilized therein.
 [041]        Figure 17 is a side elevational view partially in cross-section of the valve assembly of
Figure 16,
 [042]       Figure 18 is a side elevational view partially in cross-section of the improved float
switch assembly of Figure 15 showing the independently sensed dual float switches utilized
therein.
 [043]       Figure 19 is an enlarged ross-sectional view of the dual float switches and common
switch housing utilized in the float switch assembly of Figure 18.
 [044]       Figure 20 is an enlarged perspective view of the control module of the sump pump
test and monitoring system of Figure 15 adapted for mounting on a wall or other flat surface.
 [045]       Figure 21 is an enlarged perspective view of an alternate construction for the control
module of Figure 20 adapted for mounting directly on the discharge pipe of the sump pump
installation.
[046]        Figure 22 is a simplified functional block diagram partially in schematic form
showing the principal components of the test and monitoring system of Figure 15.
[047]       Figure 23 is a simplified functional block diagram partially in schematic form
showing the implementation of the test and monitoring system of Figure 15 utilizing a
microprocessor.
                                                   10

    [0481     Figure 24 is a simplified cross-sectional view partially in perspective of a sump pump
  test and monitoring system constructed in accordance with the present disclosure and similar to
  the system of Figure 15 except utilizing an AC-powered pump and a battery-powered pump.
   [049]      Figure 25 is an enlarged perspective view of the control module of the sump pump
  test and monitoring system of Figure 24.
   [0501      Figures 26A and 26B comprise a simplified block diagram partially in schematic
  form showing the principal components of the sump pump test and monitoring system of Figure
  24.
  10511       Figure 27 is a simplified functional block diagram partially in schematic form
 showing the implementation of the test and monitoring system of Figures 26A and 26B utilizing
 a microprocessor,
  [052]      Figure 28 is a simplified block logic diagram illustrating the circuitry associated with
 the liquid level sensing module shown in Figures 18 and 19,
  [053]      Figure 29 is a simplified block diagram partially in schematic form of the current
probe module shown in Figures 15 and 24.
 [0541       Figure 30 is an enlarged perspective view of the housing of the current probe module
shown in Figures 15, 24 and 29.
 [055]       Figure 31 is a simplified functional block diagram illustrating a system optionally
incorporated in the sump pump test and monitoring systems of the disclosure for automatically
adjusting the time out period of the pump test cycles in accordance with the actual flow rate of
fresh water entering the sump container through the electrically-actuated valve module,
                                                   I1

  [0561      Figure 32 is a simplified block diagram illustrating a system optionally incorporated
 in the sump pump test and monitoring systems of the disclosure for detecting and reporting
 trends and deviations in AC and battery-powered sump pump performance.
  [0571      Figure 33 is a simplified block diagram illustrating a system optionally incorporated
 in the sump pump test and monitoring systems of the disclosure for initiating a test cycle for one
 or more designated systems from a remote location by means of the bi-directional
 communications channel in such systems to facilitate selective testing in the event of imminent
 events, such as an approaching storm.
 [058]       Figure 34 is a functional block diagram partially in schematic form of a fail safe valve
 driver circuit optionally incorporated in the sump pump test and monitoring systems described in
the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
 [059]       The following description of the preferred embodiments is merely exemplary in
nature and is no way intended to limit the disclosure, its application or use.
 [060]       Referring to Figure 1, a prior art sump pump installation 10 of the type commonly
used in basements of homes or businesses generally consists of a sump container or liner 11
having multiple inlets 12 through which drain water is received from one or more perforated
hose or tile systems (not shown) disposed around the foundation footings of the building in
which the sump pump installation is located. A motor driven sump pump 13 is typically
positioned at or near the bottom of container 11, and may be supported by one or more bricks 14
or other spacers located between sump pump 13 and the bottom of container 11. Sump pump 13
may include an integral float switch assembly 15 which forms part of an electric circuit including
                                                  12

  a power cord 16 which supplies electric power to the pump motor upon the water level in
  container 11 rising to a first predetermined level LI. This causes pump 13 to discharge water
  from container 11 through a discharge pipe 17 and a conventional check valve 18 to a storm
  drain or other water dispersal facility (not shown). Float switch assembly 15 interrupts the
 application of electric power to the pump motor when the water level in container 11 falls to a
 second predetermined level L2 below the first predetermined level Ll.
  [061]      Frequently, a high water monitoring system 20 may be provided to signal that the
 water level in container 11 has risen to a third predetermined level L3 above the first
 predetermined level Li, and therefore above the normal operating range of pump 13 to alert the
 user of a possible pump failure. In the illustrated embodiment of Figure 1, monitoring system 20
 includes a second float switch assembly 21 positioned within container 11 such that when the
 water level in the container rises to the third predetermined level L3, float switch 21 closes and
 provides an actuating signal through a cable 22 to an alarm module 23. The alarm module 23
 may include an aural alarm transducer 24 and a connector 25 for remotely signaling the high
water condition. Power may be supplied to the high water monitor system 20 by means of a
 conventional power cord 26.
 [062]      Sump pump 13 in the embodiment of Figure 1 is connected directly to the AC line by
cable 16, the integral float switch assembly 15 serving to control the application of AC power to
the pump motor. In other embodiments, sump pump 13 may be provided with an external non
integral float switch (not shown) which may be separately connected through another cable (not
shown) to the AC power source of the pump. Typically, the additional cable is provided with a
break-out connector (not shown) which includes an AC plug for insertion into an AC supply wall
outlet on one side and a switched AC receptacle on the opposite side for receiving the AC plug
                                                  13

  on the end of the pump power cord. The AC plug is inserted into the AC supply receptacle and
 the AC plug associated with the pump motor is inserted into the switched AC receptacle of the
 break-out connector. This has the advantage of allowing float switch assembly 15 to be replaced
 without replacing or dismantling sump pump 13, and enables sump pump 13 to be tested by
 removing the AC plug of the pump power cord from the break-out connector and inserting the
 conventional AC plug of the pump motor directly into the AC supply wall outlet.
  [063]      In other embodiments, an independent control circuit (not shown) is provided for
 powering the pump motor. In these installations, the pump motor has no associated flow switch
 and receives operating power from the independent control system. The independent system may
 include one or more float switches or other water level detecting devices which cause the pump
motor to be powered and unpowered as the water level in the sump container rises and falls to
predetermined levels, These independent pump control systems may include means for
monitoring the current draw of the motor to provide an alarm in the event of pump motor failure,
 [0641      Referring to Figure 2, a sump pump test and monitoring system 30 constructed in
accordance with one embodiment of the disclosure is provided to automatically and proactively
test and monitor the operation of the sump pump installation and provide an alarm in the event of
the sump pump installation failing to operate. System 30 includes a control module 31 which
contains the electronic circuitry and various switches, indicators and connectors associated with
the system. System 30 further includes in accordance with the disclosure a valve assembly 32 for
admitting fresh water to container I1. Valve assembly 32 is mounted directly on pump discharge
pipe 17 and includes a solenoid-actuated valve 33 which is connected on one side to a fresh
water supply (not shown) by a length of flexible tubing 34 and on its other side to container 11
by either a length of flexible hose or a length of semi-rigid copper tubing 35. The fresh water
                                                14

 source is preferably accessed by a length of copper tubing 36 which extends from the source and
 connects to the length of flexible tubing 34 through a manual shutoff valve 37. The solenoid of
 solenoid valve 33 is electrically connected to control module 31 by a cable 38. Valve assembly
 32, together with the length of flexible tubing 34 and the length of semi-rigid copper tubing 35
 provides a fluid conduit which supplies fresh water to container 11 when called for by test and
 monitoring system 30.
 [0651       Test and monitoring system 30 further includes a float switch assembly 40 positioned
 within container 11 at a predetermined level L3 by an adjustable bracket 41 secured to pump
 discharge pipe 17. Upon the water level in container 11 rising to level L3, float switch assembly
 40 is actuated and provides an electrical signal to circuitry within control module 31 through a
 cable 42 which signals that the water level in container 11 has risen to a level above the
maximum level that would be achieved if sump pump 13 were operative.
 [066]      Control module 31 includes an AC receptacle 43 for receiving a conventional AC
plug on the end of the power cord 16 of pump motor 13. Control Module 31 also includes an AC
power cord 44 for receiving AC power from an AC supply wall receptacle (not shown). In one
embodiment, four connectors 45-48 (see Figures 2 and 7) are provided on the front panel of
control module 31 to connect to the various components of system 30. In particular, connector 45
connects to cable 38 of the valve assembly 33, connector 46 connects to cable 42 of float switch
assembly 40, connector 48 connects through a cable 49 to an (optional) external communication
module 50, and connector 47 provides dry contacts for connection to an external alarm system.
[067]       As shown in Figures 3 and 4, solenoid actuated valve assembly 32 includes a base
member 51 on which the solenoid-actuated valve 33 is mounted by machine screws 39 or other
appropriate means. It will be appreciated that other valve mounting configurations may be
                                                15

  provided as dictated by the construction of the valve body. Valve 33, which may be conventional
  in design and construction, includes a solenoid actuator 52 and conventional inlet and outlet
  fittings 53 and 54 on respective sides of the valve to receive and engage conduits 34 and 35,
 respectively. A removable cover 55 dimensioned to securely engage the rim of base member 51
  is preferably provided to protect the valve from mechanical damage. The cover may include slots
  56 and 57 to accommodate the tubing segments on either side of the valve. The cover may be
 secured in place by a plurality of (machine) screws 58 threaded into the top surface of base
 member 51. Base member 51 is preferably provided with an appropriately shaped laterally
 extending channel 60 (see Figure 3) on its bottom surface to contiguously engage the outer
 surface of discharge pipe 17. Two laterally-spaced adjustable retaining straps 61 and 62 (see
 Figure 4) are provided to firmly secure base member 51 to discharge pipe 17.
  [068]       Referring to Figure 5, float switch assembly 40 includes an adjustable bracket 41
 which is secured to pump discharge pipe 17 by means of a base member 65. Base member 65
 includes a laterally-extending channel 66 on its rear surface shaped to contiguously engage the
outer surface of pump discharge pipe 17. An adjustable strap 67 extends from base member 65
around discharge pipe 17 to draw the base member tightly against the pipe and thereby hold float
switch assembly 40 firmly in position.
 [069]       As shown in Figure 6, float switch assembly 40 includes a generally cylindrical
housing 68 forming a chamber 70. Housing 68 includes a plurality of apertures 71 through which
liquid is admitted into the chamber. A float switch assembly 72 is provided within chamber 70.
Float switch assembly 40 further comprises a hollow shaft 73 formed of a non-magnetic material
within which at least one magnetically-actuated reed switch 74 is positioned, A toroid-shaped
float assembly 75 containing an internal magnet is dimensioned to slide along the axis of shaft 73
                                                  16

   as the water level rises and falls within the chamber. A pair of washers 76 and 77 attached to
   shaft 73, limit the axial movement of float assembly 75 such that the magnet in float assembly 75
   overlies and actuates reed switch 74 as it reaches its maximum level. Reed switch 74 is
   electrically connected to module 31 by cable 42 to signal the circuitry within the module that the
  reed switch has been actuated by the water level in container 11 rising to level L3. Switch
  assembly 72 is held in position along the axis of cylindrical chamber 70 by a threaded end
  portion 78 of shaft 73 secured to the upper end of the housing by appropriate mounting hardware
  79.
   [070]       It will be appreciated that the liquid level sensing function of float switch assembly
  40 can be accomplished by other forms of water level detectors. For example, a conventional
  float switch of the type having a float and an arm connected to a mechanically actuated switch
 can be utilized, Or, an electronic switch either of the type which senses conductivity between
 two sensing electrodes, or of the type that senses water pressure on a submerged pressure
 transducer, can be utilized.
  [071]        As shown in Figure 7, control module 31 of test and monitoring system 30 may
 include a generally rectangular housing 80 having flanges 81 and 82 for mounting to a wall or
 other flat support surface. Front panel 83 of the module may include a three-color LED indicator
lamp 84 for visually indicating the status of the sump pump installation being tested and
monitored. In a preferred embodiment, this indicator illuminates green for a functioning pump
installation, red for a non-functioning pump installation, and amber for a pump installation
untested or under test. The amber indication may be flashing while the solenoid-actuated valve
33 is admitting water to container 11, A test of the sump pump installation can be manually
initiated by means of a push-button TEST switch 85 located on front panel 83. Momentarily
                                                    17

  pressing switch 85 initiates a normal test cycle of the pump sump installation. An unsatisfactory
 test result is signaled to the user by indicator 84 flashing red and an aural alarm provided by a
 panel-mounted transducer 86. The aural alarm, which is preferably in the form of a loud
 repetitive "beep" or "chirp," can be reset by momentary actuation of a push-button RESET
 switch 87, also located on front panel 83. Momentarily pressing this switch will silence the aural
 alarm and change the accompanying flashing red indication of indicator 84 to a steady red
 indication for a predetermined period of time, such as, for example, six hours, after which the
 aural alarm and flashing red indication again occur. Shorter or longer time periods for muting the
 alarm can be programmed into system 30 as desired.
  [072]      Actuating RESET switch 87 for an extended period of time, such as, for example,
five seconds, will result in a complete reset of the system. The flashing or steady red illumination
of indicator 84 will extinguish and the aural alarm provided by transducer 86 will cease.
However, a green illumination of indicator 84 indicating a satisfactory pump installation test will
not occur until test switch 85 has been subsequently actuated and a subsequent test of the
installation has been satisfactory.
 [073]       Various fault details, such as internal battery status, AC supply status, sensor status,
valve status, and communications status, may be provided by a plurality of indicator lamps 88a
88f on front panel 83. In addition, a removable cover 89 may be provided to access a
rechargeable battery (not shown in Figure 7) provided within housing 80 to power the test and
monitoring system circuitry within module 31 in the event of AC power failure.
[074]        Referring to Figure 8, control module 31 of test and monitoring system 30 may be
contained in an alternative housing 90 adapted to be mounted directly on the outer surface of
pump discharge pipe 17. In this embodiment, rear wall 91 of housing 90 is provided with a
                                                  18

 channel 92 shaped to contiguously engage the outer surface of discharge pipe 17. A pair of
 adjustable straps (not shown) extends from the rear wall 91 and wrap around discharge pipe 17 to
 draw the housing into contiguous firm engagement with pipe 17. The same controls, indicators
 and connectors present in the embodiment of Figure 7 can be provided in this embodiment.
 [075]       Figure 9 illustrates the principal components of one embodiment of the test and
monitoring system 30 of the present disclosure in a simplified functional block diagram. As
 shown therein, the occurrence of a test cycle is determined by a TEST CYCLE LATCH 100
which transitions to a SET state during the occurrence of a test cycle, and to a RESET state in the
absence of a test cycle. In normal use, TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is periodically conditioned to
a SET state by an EVENT TIMER 101 which provides a momentary output signal through an
OR gate 120 on a calendar basis or after a predetermined time interval has lapsed following the
most recent input applied to the timer. In one embodiment, EVENT TIMER 101 may be set, for
example, to generate a momentary output signal either every seven days, or every seven days
after receipt of the most recent input signal, in which case a test cycle of the sump pump
installation will occur.
 [076]       When TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is in a SET state, a signal is also applied through
an AND gate 102 and a solenoid driver circuit 103 to solenoid 52 of valve assembly 33 to
condition valve assembly 33 to admit water into container 11. Water continues to be admitted
until either TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 reverts back to a RESET state, or the high water float
switch assembly 40 provides an inhibit signal to AND gate 102. When valve assembly 33 is
open, FLASHER CIRCUIT 99 is activated to cause the amber illumination of indicator 84, if
active, to flash,
                                                19

  [077]      When TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is in a SET state, it provides an output signal
 causing indicator 84 to illuminate amber through an AND gate 104 and an LED driver 105. Also,
 TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 in its SET state resets a TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106 through
 a signal conditioning pulse circuit 107 and an OR gate 108, and resets a TEST FAIL LATCH
 111 through an OR gate 95. This terminates the output of TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106
 such that the green illumination of indicator 84 driven through an LED driver 109 is
 extinguished, and the output of TEST FAIL LATCH 111 such that the red illumination of
 indicator 84 driven through AND gate 96 and an LED driver 113 is extinguished. Thus, only the
 amber illumination of indicator 84 is active during a test cycle.
  [078]      The output of TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is also applied to a TEST CYCLE TIMER
 110 which times the duration of the test cycle and provides a momentary timeout output signal in
the event the duration of the SET state of TEST CYCLE LATCH 100, and hence the duration of
the test cycle, exceeds a predetermined maximum period of time. In the event of this timeout,
 TEST CYCLE TIMER 110 applies a SET signal to transition TEST FAIL LATCH 111 to a SET
 state through an OR gate 112. This causes a red illumination of indicator 84 through AND gate
96 and LED driver 113. Also, the output of TEST CYCLE TIMER 110 causes TEST CYCLE
LATCH 100 to be reset by means of a signal provided through an OR gate 114, thereby
terminating the test cycle and extinguishing the amber illumination of indicator 84. The output of
TEST FAIL LATCH 111 conditions an ALARM LATCH 115 to a SET state through an
interface circuit 116, thereby causing an AUDIO GENERATOR 97 to generate an audible alarm
through transducer 86. ALARM LATCH 115 can be reset by momentary actuation of RESET
switch 87, in the manner previously described. ALARM LATCH 115 also enables FLASHER
CIRCUIT 98 to cause the red illumination of indicator 84 to flash until the latch is reset. RESET
                                                 20

  switch 87 also serves, through a delay circuit 117, when held for an extended period of time, to
  reset TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 through OR gate 114, to reset TEST FAIL LATCH 111
 through OR gate 95, and to reset TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106 through OR gate 108,
 thereby conditioning the system for a subsequent test. A manual test can be initiated by TEST
 switch 85 through a signal conditioning pulse circuit 119 and OR gate 120.
  [0791      The output of MOTOR CURRENT SENSOR 121 also provides a reset signal through
 a switch and a signal conditioning pulse circuit 122 to EVENT TIMER 101, optimally causing
 that timer to begin a new timing period with each operation of the motor. The output of MOTOR
 CURRENT SENSOR 121 is also applied to a signal conditioning pulse circuit 123, which
 provides a momentary pulse upon the motor stopping. This pulse, signaling the completion of a
 successful test, is applied through OR gate 114 to reset TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 to terminate
the test cycle. The same motor stop pulse also serves to condition the TEST SUCCESSFUL
LATCH 106 to a SET status to indicate successful completion of a test cycle by illuminating the
green indication of indicator 84 through LED driver 109. A further function of MOTOR
CURRENT SENSOR 121 is to initiate a timeout period in a MOTOR RUN TIMER 124. In the
event pump motor 13 operates continuously for a period exceeding the timeout period of
MOTOR RUN TIMER 124, the timer generates an output signal which resets TEST CYCLE
LATCH 100 through OR gate 114 and conditions TEST FAIL LATCH Ill to a SET state
through OR gate 112. This causes the red illumination of indicator 84 through AND gate 93 and
LED driver 113. Also, the output of MOTOR RUN TIMER 124 resets the TEST SUCCESSFUL
LATCH 106 through OR gate 108 to extinguish the green illumination of indicator 84.
[0801       In the event pump motor 13 fails to operate during a test cycle, the eventual closure of
high water sensing switch assembly 40 causes an inhibit signal to be applied to AND gate 102,
                                                 21

 preventing further operation of solenoid 52 to prevent further water from being admitted to sump
 container IL1 Also, the closure of high water level switch assembly 40 causes a pulse to be
 applied through signal conditioning pulse circuit 125 and OR gate 108 to reset TEST
 SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106, through OR gate 114 to reset the TEST CYCLE LATCH 100, and
through OR gate 112 to condition TEST FAIL LATCH 111 to a SET state. Thus, a high water
condition for any reason results in the red illumination of indicator 84 while the amber and green
illuminations of indicator 84 are extinguished, and in the event of an active test cycle, valve 33 is
closed to prevent any further fresh water from being admitted to sump container 11.
 10811      The system includes a conventional low voltage power supply 126 for supplying 12
VDC operating power to solenoid-actuated valve 33 and to the various functional circuits of the
controller. Power supply 126 includes a rechargeable battery 127 to supply operating power to
the control module component in the event of AC power failure. During normal operation AC
power is supplied to power supply 126 through AC power cable 44 and an internal protective
fuse 128.
 [0821      The status of TEST FAIL LATCH 111 and TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106 is
provided to the external communications module 50 (not shown in Figure 9) through connector
48. Additional status information, including the serial number of the system and the time and
nature of an event occurence, can also be provided to the communications module through this
connector.
[083]       Referring to Figure 10, many of the functions heretofore described with respect to
Figure 9 can be more efficiently accomplished by a microprocessor implementation of the
control system, In particular, a single microprocessor 129 can be provided with the various
sensing and control inputs previously described and programmed to carry out the logic and
                                                 22

 timing functions required by the system. Previously described outputs to the green, red and
 amber indications of indicator 84 can be provided by the processor as well, as can the necessary
 data required for bi-directional communication through communication port 48 to the external
 communications module 50 (not shown in Figures 9 and 10). The programming of
 microprocessor 129 is well within the capabilities of one skilled in the art of microprocessors and
 the preparation of associated firmware and software.
  [0841      The test and monitoring system described in the disclosure can also be effectively
utilized to test and monitor a dual sump pump installation 130. Referring to Figure 11, in a dual
sump pump installation, a second motor driven sump pump 131 is provided in sump container
 11, typically at a slightly higher level than the first motor driven pump 13. Pump 131, like
previously described pump 13, may include an integral float switch 132 which initiates operation
of pump 131 when the water level in container 11 rises to a fourth predetermined level L4. Float
switch 132 discontinues operation of pump 131 when, as a result of pump 131 discharging water
from sump container 11, the water level in container 11 falls to a predetermined lower level L5.
As with sump pump 13, second sump pump 131 has a discharge pipe 133 through which pump
131 discharges water from container 11. A power cord 134 is provided together with circuitry
associated with internal pump float switch 132 to power pump 131. Additional support bricks 14
may be provided to raise pump 131 to a level higher than that of the pump 13 so that in normal
operation pump 131 only operates in the event of failure of pump 13.
10851       In accordance with the present disclosure, test and monitoring system 130 includes
additional components and circuitry to enable the system to test and monitor the two sump
pumps in a manner similar to that of previously described single sump pump test and monitor
system 30. Referring to Figures 11 and 12, test and monitoring system 130 includes a control
                                                23

 module 136 similar to the control module 31 of system 30, except that the module includes a
  second status indicator light 137 for indicating the operating status of the second sump pump
  131, and a second AC receptacle 138 for receiving an AC plug associated with the power cord
  134 of pump 131. This control module 136 is intended to be mounted on a flat supporting surface
 in the same manner as the previously described control module 31. Power is supplied to control
 module 135 by a power cord 44 in the manner previously described and a communication
 module 50 (not shown) may be connected to connector 48 as previously described. In addition,
 solenoid-actuated valve assembly 32 is connected by cable 38 to connector 45, and float switch
 assembly 40, set at predetermined high water level L3 (which is higher than predetermined water
 trigger level L4 of pump 131), is connected by cable 42 to connector 46. Operation of control
 module 136 is identical to that of the previously described control module 31 with the exception
 of the previously identified provision of indicator 137 and receptacle 136 to accommodate the
 second sump pump 131,
 [0861       The operation of dual pump test and monitoring system 130 is illustrated in the
 simplified functional block diagram of Figures 13A and 13B, As shown in that figure, the system
performs two test cycles in sequence - one for pump 13 and one for pump 131 - and separately
indicates the success or failure of each test cycle by means of the separate tri-color indicators 84
and 137.
 [087]      The pump 13 is tested in the manner previously described in connection with test and
monitoring system 30, As before, the occurrence of the first test cycle is governed by TEST
CYCLE LATCH 100 which transitions to a SET state during the occurrence of a test cycle, and
to a RESET state in the absence of a test cycle. TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is periodically
conditioned to a SET state by EVENT TIMER 101, which provides a momentary output signal
                                                 24

  after a predetermined time interval has lapsed following the most recent input applied to the
  timer. EVENT TIMER 101 may be set, for example, to generate a momentary output signal
  following a predetermined period of time, for example, seven days, or a like period after receipt
  of the most recent input signal, in either case the first test cycle (and the second test cycle of
 system 130), will occur at periods of not more than seven days. As before, it will be appreciated
 that a greater or lesser test interval may be set by EVENT TIMER 101 as desired by the user.
  [088]       When TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is in a SET state, a signal is also applied through
 AND gate 102 and solenoid driver circuit 103 to solenoid 52 of valve assembly 33 to condition
 the valve assembly to admit water to sump container 11. Water continues to be admitted until
 either TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 reverts back to a RESET state, as in the case of a successful
 test, or the high water float switch assembly 40 or another failure provides a signal to AND gate
 102, in the case of an unsuccessful test.
  [089J       When TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is in a SET state, it provides an output signal
 which provides for an amber illumination by indicator 84. Also, TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 in
 its SET state resets TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106, and TEST FAIL LATCH 111. This
terminates the output of these components such that during a test cycle indicator 84 can only
present an amber illumination.
 [0901       As before, the output of TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is also applied to TEST CYCLE
TIMER 110 which times the duration of the test cycle and provides a momentary timeout output
signal in the event the SET state of TEST CYCLE LATCH 100, and hence the test cycle of
pump 13, exceeds a predetermined maximum time duration. In the event of this timeout, TEST
CYCLE TIMER 110 conditions TEST FAIL LATCH 111 to a SET state, causing a red
ilunination of indicator 84. Also, the output of TEST CYCLE TIMER 110 causes TEST
                                                    25

 CYCLE LATCH 100 to be reset, thereby terminating the test cycle and extinguishing the amber
 illumination of indicator 84. The output of TEST FAIL LATCH 111 also conditions ALARM
 LATCH 115 to a SET state, thereby causing an audible alarm to occur. ALARM LATCH 115
 can be reset by momentary actuation of RESET switch 87 in the manner previously described.
 RESET switch 87 also causes, through delay circuit 117, when held for an extended period of
 time, the reset of TEST CYCLE LATCH 100, TEST FAIL LATCH 111, and TEST
 SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106, as well as the to be described counterpart components associated
 with pump 131, thereby conditioning the system for a subsequent test of the two pumps. As
 before, a manual test of the first sump pump 13 can be initiated by TEST switch 85 through
 signal conditioning circuit 119 and OR gate 120.
 [091]      The output of MOTOR CURRENT SENSOR 121 may provide a reset signal through
 signal conditioning circuit 122 to EVENT TIMER 101, causing that timer to begin a new timing
period with each operation of the motor. The output of MOTOR CURRENT SENSOR 121 is
also applied to signal conditioning circuit 123, which provides a momentary pulse upon the
motor stopping. This pulse, signaling the completion of a successful test, is applied through OR
gate 114 to reset TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 to terminate the test cycle. The same motor stop
pulse also serves to condition TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106 to a SET status to indicate a
successful test of sump pump 13 by illuminating the green indication of indicator 84. A further
function of motor current sensor 121 is to initiate a timeout period in MOTOR RUN TIMER
 124. In the event pump 13 operates continuously for a period exceeding the timeout period of
MOTOR RUN TIMER 124, the timer generates an output signal which resets TEST CYCLE
LATCH 100 and conditions TEST FAIL LATCH 111 to a SET state. This causes the red
illumination of indicator 84. Also, the output of MOTOR RUN TIMER 124 resets TEST
                                               26

  SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106 to extinguish the green illumination of indicator 84 driven by that
  latch.
   [092]     In the event sump pump 13 fails to operate, the eventual closure of high water sensing
  switch assembly 40 causes an inhibit signal to be applied to AND gate 102, preventing further
 operation of solenoid 82 and further fresh water from being admitted to sump container 11. Also,
 as before, the closure of high water level switch assembly 40 causes TEST SUCCESSFUL
 LATCH 106 and TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 to be conditioned to a RESET state, and TEST
 FAIL LATCH 111 to be conditioned to a SET state. Thus, a high water condition results in no
 further water being admitted through valve 33 to sump container 11 and any amber and green
 illuminations of indicator 84 are extinguished while causing a red illumination of indicator 84.
  [093]      As with the control module of system 30, the control module of system 130 includes a
 conventional low voltage power supply 126 for supplying operating power to solenoid-actuated
valve 33 and the various functional circuits of the controller. Power supply 126 includes a
rechargeable battery 127 to supply operating power to the control module component in the
event of AC power failure. During normal operation AC power is supplied to power supply 126
through AC power cable 44 and an internal protective fuse 128.
 1094]      The status of TEST FAIL LATCH 111 and TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 106 as to
sump pump 13 is provided to external communications module 50 through connector 48.
Additional status information, including the serial number of the system and the time and nature
of an event occurrence, can also be provided to the communications module through this
connector.
 [0951      To accommodate testing and monitoring of the second sump pump 131, one
embodiment of the dual pump test and monitoring system 130 of the disclosure incorporates
                                                27

  additional circuitry within control module 136. As shown in Figures 13A and 13B, the
  occurrence of a test cycle for the second pump 131 is determined by a second TEST CYCLE
 LATCH 140 (Figure 13B) which transitions to a SET state during the occurrence of a test cycle
 for pump 131, and to a RESET state in the absence of such a test cycle,
  [096]      In accordance with the present disclosure, TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 is conditioned
 to a SET state by TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 upon that device completing a test cycle for sump
 pump 13. To that end, the output of the latch is applied to the SET input of latch 140 through a
 signal conditioning pulse circuit 93.
  [0971      When TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 is in a SET state, a signal is applied through AND
 gate 142 and solenoid driver circuit 143 to the solenoid 52 of valve assembly 33 to cause the
 valve assembly to admit fresh water to sump container 11. Fresh water continues to be admitted
 until either TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 reverts back to a RESET state, as in the case of a
 successful test, or the high water float switch assembly 40 provides an inhibit signal to AND gate
 142, in the case of an unsuccessful test,
 [098]       When TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 is in a SET state, it also provides an output signal
which provides an amber illumination by indicator 137 through AND gate 144 and LED driver
 145, Also, the TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 in its SET state resets a TEST SUCCESSFUL
LATCH 146 through a signal conditioning pulse circuit 147 and OR gate 148. This terminates
the output of TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 146 such that the green illumination of indicator
137 driven through LED driver 149 is extinguished. Thus, only the amber illumination of
indicator 137 is present during a test cycle.
 [099]       The output of TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 is also applied to a TEST CYCLE TIMER
150 which times the duration of the test cycle and provides a momentary timeout output signal in
                                                  28

  the event the SET state of TEST CYCLE LATCH 140, and hence the test cycle of pump 131,
  exceeds a predetermined maximum time duration. In the event of this timeout, TEST CYCLE
  TIMER 150 conditions TEST FAIL LATCH 151 to a SET state through an OR gate 152. This
  causes the red illumination of indicator 137 through AND gate 155 and LED driver 153, Also,
  the output of TEST CYCLE TIMER 150 causes TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 to be reset by
  means of a signal provided through OR gate 154, thereby extinguishing the amber illumination
  of indicator 137. The output of TEST FAIL LATCH 151 also conditions ALARM LATCH 115
 to a SET state through a signal conditioning pulse circuit 156 and OR gate 97, thereby causing an
 audible alarm to occur. Alarm latch circuit 115 can be reset by momentary actuation of RESET
 switch 87, in the manner previously described. RESET switch 87 also causes, through delay
 circuit 117, when held for an extended period of time, the reset of TEST CYCLE LATCH 140,
 TEST FAIL LATCH 151, and TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 146, thereby conditioning the
 system for a subsequent test of pump 131. A manual test of the first and second pumps can be
 initiated by TEST switch 85 through signal conditioning circuit 119 and OR gate 120.
  [1001      The output of MOTOR CURRENT SENSOR 161 is applied to signal conditioning
pulse circuit 163, which provides a momentary pulse upon the motor stopping. This pulse,
 signaling the completion of a successful test, is applied through OR gate 154 to reset TEST
 CYCLE LATCH 140 to terminate the test cycle for second pump 131. The same motor stop
pulse also serves to condition TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 146 to a SET status to indicate
successful completion of a test cycle by illuminating the green indication of indicator 137. A
further function of motor current sensor 161 is to initiate a timeout period in MOTOR RUN
TIMER 164. In the event pump motor 113 operates continuously for a period exceeding the
timeout period of MOTOR RUN TIMER 164, the timer generates an output signal which resets
                                                29

 TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 through OR gate 154 and conditions TEST FAIL LATCH 151 to a
  SET state through OR gate 152. This causes the red illumination of indicator 137 through LED
 driver 153. Also, the output of MOTOR RUN TIMER 164 resets TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH
  146 through OR gate 148 to extinguish the green illumination of indicator 137 driven by that
 latch through LED driver 149,
  [1011      In the event pump motor 131 fails to operate, the eventual closure of high water
 sensing switch assembly 40 causes an inhibit signal to be applied to AND gate 142, preventing
 further operation of solenoid 52 to prevent further fresh water from being admitted to sump
 container 11. Also, the closure of high water level switch assembly 40 causes a pulse to be
 applied through signal conditioning pulse circuit 165 and OR gate 148 to reset TEST
 SUCCESSFUL LATCH 146, and through OR gate 154 to reset TEST CYCLE LATCH 140, and
through OR gate 152 to condition TEST FAIL LATCH 151 to a SET state, Thus, a high water
condition results in no further water being admitted through valve 33 to sump container 11 and
any amber and green illuminations of indicator 137 are extinguished while causing a red
illumination of indicator 137. As previously described in connection with the single pump
system 30, a FLASHER CIRCUIT 172 may be provided to cause a flashing red illumination of
indicator 137 prior to actuation of RESET switch 87, and a FLASHER CIRCUIT 173 may be
provided to cause a flashing amber illumination of indicator 137 when TEST CYCLE LATCH
140 is SET and valve 33 is open.
[102]       The status of TEST FAIL LATCH 151 and TEST SUCCESSFUL LATCH 146 is
provided to external communications module 50 (not shown in Figure 13) through connector 48.
Additional status information related to pump 131, including the time and nature of an event
occurrence, can also be provided to the communications module through this connector.
                                               30

  [1031      To provide for sequential testing of pumps 31 and 131, the AC supply circuit to the
 pump motors includes single pole normally closed relays 168 and 169 and associated respective
 relay driver circuits 170 and 171. When TEST CYCLE LATCH 100 is in a SET state to test the
 motor of pump 13, relay 168 associated with pump 131 is energized open, preventing the motor
 of pump 131from operating. Subsequently, when TEST CYCLE LATCH 140 is in a SET state to
 test the motor of pump 131, relay 169 associated with pump 13 is energized open, preventing the
 operation of the motor of pump 13. Thus, each motor of each pump is independently tested.
  [104]      Referring to Figure 14, many of the functions heretofore described with respect to
 Figure 13 can be more efficiently accomplished by a microprocessor implementation of the
 control system. In particular, a single microprocessor 180 can be provided with the various
 sensing and control inputs previously described and programmed to carry out the logic and
 timing functions required by the system. Previously described outputs to cause the green, red and
 amber illuminations of indicators 84 and 137 can be provided by processor 180 as well, as can
the necessary data required for bi-directional communication through communication port 48 to
external communications module 50 (not shown in Figures 13 and 14). The programming of
microprocessor 180 is well within the capabilities of one skilled in the art of microprocessors and
the preparation of associated firmware and software.
 [1051      Thus, each of the two pumps 13 and 131 in sump container 11 is individually
monitored and the successful or unsuccessful test of each pump is separately indicated.
Additional reporting is provided to communications module 50 to indicate the status of each
pump. Visual and aural warnings are given in the event that either pump 13 or pump 131 is
inoperative, Thus, the dual pump system 130, like the single pump system 30, is fully automated
and proactively provides the user with a warning of pump failure prior to the pump actually
                                                31

 being required for evacuating ground water from the pump reservoir. As before, it is
 contemplated that additional functions, such as power failure or low battery, or a low
 temperature condition in the environment of the pump system can also be communicated by
 means of the communications module. The communications module may communicate with the
 user by means of an internet connection, a cellular data connection, a phone connection, or by
 means of a hardwired connection to a separate building alarm system, to the owner or one or
 more persons designated by the owner of the system.
  [1061       The information given to the user can include the time and date of the successful
 tests, the time and date of unsuccessful tests and additional information such as power failure or
 temperatures falling below a predetermined level. The information can be copied or redirected to
 multiple destinations and users, including plumbing and property management services. The
 system can be readily installed in conventional single and dual sump pump installations without
modification to the pump mechanisms, or the physical construction of the pump reservoir or
 associated plumbing. Moreover, the system is the completely fail safe in that the monitored
pumps will continue to operate in a normal manner in the event of removal or complete
inoperability of the test and monitoring system.
 [107]        The sump pump test and monitoring systems described in this disclosure can also be
adapted to monitor sump pump installations which utilize a battery-powered DC sump pump.
One such system, which includes additional enhancements to the valve module 32 and liquid
level sensor module 40, is shown in Figure 15.
 [1081        The system 200 tests and monitors a DC-powered pump 201 having a conventional
float switch 202 which causes the pump to operate when the liquid level in sump container
reaches level LI, and terminates pump operation when the liquid level in the container falls to
                                                  32

  level L2 as a result of the pump discharging water through discharge pipe 17. Pump 201 is
 connected to and receives DC operating power from a conventional battery 203 through a two
 conductor cable 204. The battery is maintained charged by an AC-powered charger 205, which
 receives AC operating power through an AC line cord 206 having a conventional end plug
 inserted into receptacle 43 of a test control module 207, which is similar to the previously
 described test control module 31 utilized with AC-powered sump pump 13. Test control module
 207 is connected to an AC receptacle by an AC line cord 44,
  [1091     To monitor the current drawn by DC motor 201, system 200 includes a current probe
module 210 which clamps over one of the conductors in cable 204 which supplies current to
 motor 201. Current probe module 210 is connected to a connector 212 on control module 207 by
 a cable 211, which provides a signal to the circuitry of control module 207 which indicates the
current supplied by battery 203 to the motor.
 [110]      When conducting a test, test and monitoring system 200 supplies an actuating signal
to valve module 33 through cable 38, causing fresh water to be admitted to sump container 11.
When the liquid level in the container rises to level LI, motor 201 operates. This increase in
current the motor is detected by current probe module 210, and hence control module 207,
causing the control module to terminate the actuating signal to valve 33 to stop the flow of fresh
water into the container. As liquid is evacuated from container 11 by pump 201, the liquid level
falls to L2, and the pump stops. The termination of current to the motor is interpreted as a
successful test by control module 207, resulting in pump status indicator 84 lighting a steady
green to indicate a successful test.
[111]       Should sump pump 201 fail to function, the liquid level in the sump reservoir will
continue to rise to level L3, causing a high liquid level sensor module 213 to send a signal to
                                                33

 control module 207 through cable 42. This causes control module 207 to interrupt the actuating
 signal to valve 33 to terminate water flow into the sump container and cause LED indicator 84 to
 light red, indicating a pump failure. As in the previously described sump pump test and
 monitoring system, a communications module 50 connected to control module 207 by a cable 49
may provide notification of the pump failure at one or more user-designated remote locations.
 11121       Referring to Figure 16, sump pump test and monitoring system 200 incorporates an
 improved valve module 214 which provides additional valve monitoring functionality to the
 system. In particular, valve module 214 includes, in addition to the solenoid valve 33, a liquid
flow sensor 215 which generates a signal indicating of the actual flow rate of fresh water through
the valve, This signal is communicated through a cable 216 to a dedicated connector 217 on
control module 207. In accordance with another aspect of the disclosure, circuitry within the
control module utilizes the flow rate to confirm the proper operation of valve 33. When control
module 207 applies an actuating signal to the valve, the output signal from flow sensor 215 is
utilized to confirm that the valve has opened and that fresh water is entering the sump container,
When the actuating signal is removed from the valve, closure of the valve and termination of
fresh water flow is confirmed by the output signal of the flow sensor indicating no flow, In the
event that either valve condition is not confirmed by the flow sensor, any test in progress is
terminated and a valve fault is signaled by control module 207. As with valve module 32, a cover
56 is secured over the valve and flow sensor to protect the assembly fi-om damage.
[1131       The improved liquid level sensor module 213 utilized in sump pump test and
monitoring system 200 is illustrated in Figures 18 and 19. As with the previously described
sensor module 40, module 213 is mounted by a bracket 41 secured to discharge pipe 17 by a
block 65 and strap 67. A generally cylindrical housing 68 having a plurality of perforations 71
                                                 34

 forms a compartment 70. Within this compartment, two donut-shaped float members 75 and 220,
 each having an internal toroidal permanent magnet (not shown), are arranged to slide along a
 hollow non-magnetic stem 73 within which two magnetically-actuated reed switches 74 and 221
 are positioned, one above the other. Float member 75 is constrained to slide between two
 fixedly-positioned washers 76 and 77 as the liquid level in the container rises, Reed switch 74 is
 positioned within stem 73 such that the magnet in member 75 actuates the switch when the
 member reaches washer 77. Similarly, float member 220 is constrained by fixedly positioned
 washers 222 and 223 so that reed switch 221 is actuated by the magnet in float member 220
 when the rising liquid level causes that member to reach washer 223. As will be described
 subsequently in conjunction with Figure 28, the presence of the independently connected
 switches achieves, in accordance with another aspect of the disclosure, self-monitoring and
redundancy in liquid level sensor module 213 for improved reliability.
 [1141      Referring to Figure 20, test control module 207 is seen to include an additional socket
217 for connecting to flow transducer 215 through cable 216, and an additional socket 212 for
connecting to current probe module 210 through cable 211. In addition, module 207 includes two
mode-indicating blue LEDs 225 and 226 which indicate the operating mode of the controller,
LED 225 indicating when lit that the controller is configured to test and monitor an AC sump
pump connected to receptacle 43 by means of an internal current sensor 121 (Figure 22)
associated with the receptacle, and LED 226 indicating when lit that the controller is configured
to test and monitor a battery-powered DC pump connected to receptacle 43 by means of external
current probe 210. Except for the additions, control module 207 is essentially identical to the
previously described control module 31, And, as with control module 31, the housing of control
                                                 35

 module 207 can be alternatively adapted for mounting to the pump discharge pipe 17, as shown
 in Figure 21.
  [1151      Referring to Figure 22, sump pump test and monitoring system 200 is seen to be
 structurally and functionally similar to system 30, except for the improved liquid level sensing
 module 213, the improved valve module 214, current probe 210 and the additional components
 required to implement these features and monitor a battery-powered DC pump. In particular,
 switches 74 and 221 of liquid level sensing module 213 are connected to a sensing module
 monitor circuit 230, wherein the sequencing of the switches is monitored and a fault signal is
produced for inhibiting operation of valve 33 and for lighting an LED indicator 231 in the event
 of a malfunction. This monitoring circuitry is described in detail in connection with Figure 28.
 [116]       Furthermore, valve module 214 requires additional valve-monitoring circuitry 232 to
receive the output of flow sensor 215 and compare that with the status of valve 33. In the event
of no flow when the valve is actuated open, or in the event of flow when the valve is not actuated
open, fault signals are generated which illuminate an LED 233 and inhibit the further application
of an actuating signal to the valve, An additional protective circuit 234, described in conjunction
with Figure 34, may be provided with valve driver circuit 103 to prevent the valve from being
inadvertently actuated in the event of a malfunction in other components, including processor
240 (Figure 23), for the reliable operation of valve 33.
 [1171       To provide for motor current being sensed by current probe module 210 when the
system is monitoring a battery-powered DC motor, a two-pole two-position mode switch 235
switches between the internal sensor 121 associated with receptacle 43 and the external current
probe module 210. Indicators 225 and 226 are correspondingly illuminated by this switch to
indicate the mode selected. It is intended that mode switch 235 will be set by the installer of
                                                 36

 system 200 by sequential actuation of a mode select push button switch (241) at the time of
 installation.
  [118]       Referring to Figure 23, the sump pump test and monitoring system 200 described in
 Figure 22 can be efficiently implemented using a microprocessor 240. In this implementation,
push-button switch 241 is utilized to switch between the AC pump monitoring mode and the DC
pump monitoring mode, in the manner of mode switch 235 (Figure 22). Also, another push
button switch 242 may be optionally provided to initialize the system, in a manner to be
described in conjunction with Figure 31. Processor 240 can be programmed using conventional
programming techniques by someone of ordinary skill in the computer programming arts.
 [1191           Referring to Figure 24, in accordance with another aspect of the disclosure, a
sump pump test and monitoring system 250 is shown which simultaneously tests and monitors
AC pump 13 and battery-powered DC pump 201. The system, except for the provision for DC
pump 201, and the previously described improved liquid level sensor module 213, the previously
described improved valve module 214 and the added current probe 210, and additional circuitry
required to implement these features, is essentially similar to the previously described test and
monitoring system 130. As shown in Figures 24 and 25, the control module 251 of the system
includes a receptacle 138 for supplying power to a second pump, or in this case, to battery
charger 205, and two connector sockets 212 and 217, for connecting to current probe module 210
and flow sensor 215, respectively. A second LED status indicator 137 is provided to indicate the
status of a sump pump connected to receptacle 138. Push button switches 241 and 242 provide
mode select and initialize functions, respectively. In the manner of the previously described
control module 207, AC and BAT (DC) mode indicating LEDs are provided in association with
AC receptacles 43 and 138, A pair of blue LED indicators 225 and 226 associated with
                                                37

  receptacle 43, and a pair of blue LEDs 252 and 253 associated with receptacle 138, indicate AC
  and BAT (DC) modes, respectively.
   [120]     Referring to Figures 26A and 26B, the structure and functionality of sump pump test
  and monitoring system 250, except for the previously stated changes and additions, is similar to
 that of system 130. In particular, system 250 includes a two position mode selector switch 254
 provided to select either AC or BAT modes for receptacles 43 and 138. Mode selector switch
 may include additional switch sections to actuate LED indicators 225, 226, 252 and 253 in
 accordance with the selected monitoring mode. In practice, various combinations of mode
 designations may be provided for the receptacles, such as, for example, AC or BAT for
 receptacle 43 with receptacle 138 not used, or AC for receptacle 43 and receptacle 138, or AC
 for receptacle 43 and BAT for receptacle 138. These selections can be accomplished by repeated
 momentary actuations of mode select switch 241 (Figure 27).
  [121]      As shown in Figure 27, the functions of control module 251 in sump pump test and
 monitoring system 250 can be efficiently accomplished by utilizing a microprocessor 255.
Processor 255 can be programmed using conventional programming techniques by a
programmer of average skill in the computer programming arts.
 11221       Thus, system 250 as implemented in Figures 25-27 provides test and monitoring
capability for both AC and battery-powered DC pumps in both single and dual pump
installations, The system will automatically and periodically test installed pumps, providing an
unambiguous indication of the status of each pump.
 [123]       Referring to Figure 28, the dual float switches 74 and 221 provided in liquid level
sensor module 213 provide, in combination with a monitoring circuit 230, protection against a
float switch failure. In particular, reed switch 74 is connected through a signal conditioning pulse
                                                  38

  circuit 260 to a timer 261. After a first predetermined time out period, slightly in excess of the
  time nominally required for the liquid level in the sump container 13 to rise from a level
  actuating switch 70 to a level actuating switch 221, timer 261 provides an output pulse which
 conditions a latch circuit 262 to a SET state. Similarly, reed switch 221 is connected through a
 signal conditioning pulse circuit 263 to a timer 264, which after a very short predetermined time
 out period provides an output pulse to condition a latch circuit 265 to a SET state.
  [124]      During a test cycle, as the liquid level in sump container 11 rises switch 74 is
 eventually actuated, conditioning latch 262 to a SET state after the time out period of timer 261.
 In the meantime, as the liquid level continues to rise switch 221 is actuated and latch 265 is
 conditioned to SET, after a much shorter delay period set by timer 264. If switch 221 has not
 actuated by the time out of latch 262, indicating a failure of switch 221, an AND gate 266
 provides a sensor fault signal through an OR gate 267 and a signal conditioning pulse circuit
 268. At the same time, the output of latch 262 provides a high liquid level output signal through
 an OR gate 270, short delay timer 271 and signal conditioning pulse circuit 272. In the event
 switch 221 is activated by the rising liquid level in sump container II but switch 74 has not been
 actuated, after the short time out period of timer 264 latch 265 is set and a sensor fault output is
provided through an AND gate 273, OR gate 267 and signal conditioning pulse circuit 268. At
the same time, the output of latch 265 provides a high liquid level output signal through OR gate
270, timer 271 and signal conditioning pulse circuit 272. Thus, with the monitoring circuit 230,
failure of either one of the two reed switches 74 and 221 of liquid level sensor 213 is detected
and signaled to the user, and the remaining switch provides a high liquid level output signal
which terminates the test cycle by closing valve 33 and signaling a pump failure by conditioning
the associated status LED to a red indication. The functionality of valve monitoring circuit 230
                                                  39

 can be most advantageously implemented within a microprocessor-based system such as those
 shown in Figures 1, 14, 23 and 27.
  [1251      Referring to Figures 29 and 30, the current sensing probe module 210 utilizes a solid
 state current sensing element 280, such as a Hall Effect sensor IC, positioned in close proximity
 to one of the electrical conductors 282 in cable 204 supplying DC current from battery 208 to
 DC motor 201. The Hall Effect sensor responds to the magnetic field around the conductor, the
 magnitude and direction of the field being dependent on the magnitude and direction of current
 flow in the conductor. A regulated reference voltage developed by a conventional voltage
regulator 281 is supplied to the sensor, which provides an analog output voltage either greater or
lesser than the reference voltage, depending on the magnitude and direction of current flow in the
conductor. The analog output voltage is filtered by a resistor 283 and a capacitor 284 and
supplied through cable 211 (Figure 15) to circuitry within control module 207. As shown in
Figure 30, the circuitry of probe 201 is preferably contained within a housing 285 which includes
an internal toroidal magnetic element 286 that wraps around conductor 280 and includes two air
gaps that facilitate installation on the conductor without disconnecting the conductor from
battery 203. Sensing element 280 is positioned close to one of these gaps such that a portion of
the magnetic flux surrounding the conductor is sensed by the sensing element.
 [1261      Thus, a compact and easily removable probe is provided that can sense DC motor
current as required to confirm operation of the battery-powered sump and provide a current
indicative signal to circuitry within the system controller.
 [127]      Referring to Figure 31, the time out period for a test cycle can, in accordance with
another aspect of the disclosure, can optionally be adjusted in accordance with the actual flow
rate of fresh water into pump container 11 during a test cycle. To this end, with all sump pumps
                                                 40

  disconnected or otherwise disabled, and with no significant flow of ground water into the
  container, an initialize circuit 290 is actuated by momentary actuation of INITIALIZE push
  button switch 242, This causes valve 33 in valve module 214 to begin admitting water to the
  sump container and a timer 291 to be actuated. Timer 291 continues to run until stopped by an
  output signal from high liquid level sensing module 230. The elapsed time, as indicated by timer
 291, upon timer 291 stopping becomes the base fill time for the sump container.
  [128]      During the same inflow period, flow sensor 215 provides an output signal indicating
 the then existing flow rate of fresh water into the sump container 11 This flow rate is stored in a
 memory component 292. During subsequent test periods this stored flow rate is compared with
 the actual flow rate by a processor 293 to obtain a flow correction factor, and from that factor a
 test time out correction factor is calculated. This time out correction factor is added to or
 subtracted from the base time out by a correction circuit 294 to obtain a corrected time out period
 for use in subsequent sump pump testing.
  [1291      Use of the corrected time out period compensates for variations in the flow rate of
fresh water into the sump container as might result from pressure variations in the fresh water
supply. This can reduce the test cycle time out during periods of high water pressure and high
fresh water flow rate, thereby reducing the time required for the test, and increase the test cycle
time out during periods of low water pressure and low fresh water flow rate, thereby in extreme
cases avoiding a false indication of pump failure from a premature time out, before the liquid
level in the container has reached the actuating level of the pump under test. The functionality of
the described variable time out circuit can be most advantageously implemented within a
microprocessor-based system such as those shown in Figures 1, 14, 23 and 27.
                                                  41

   [130]     Referring to Figure 32, in further accord with the present disclosure, previously
  described sump pump test and monitoring systems 200 and 250 can optionally track the
  performance of monitored sump pumps. In particular, a memory component 300 provided in the
  system control module can record for each test the date and time, as provided by an internal
 calendar component 301, the duration of the test cycle as provided by a timer circuit 302, and the
 current supplied to the motor under test as provided by the internal AC sensor 303, in the case of
 an AC motor, or by the DC current probe module 210, as appropriately selected by an internal
 switch 304, in the case of a battery-powered DC motor.
  [131]      Periodically, an internal processor 305, which can be the main control processor of
 the module, receives and processes the test information stored in memory component 300 and
 produces a report, which is conveyed over the existing communications channel 306 to the
 owner of the system and other owner-designated recipients, such as the owner's plumbing
 contractor. In this way, an impending failure of a monitored sump pump, as recognized by a
longer elapsed run time, or by higher or lower motor current consumption, can be recognized and
pre-emptive repair or replacement action can be taken. The functionality of the described trend
monitoring and reporting system can be most advantageously implemented within a
microprocessor-based system such as those shown in Figures 1, 14, 23 and 27.
 [1321      Referring to Figure 33, in accordance with another aspect of the disclosure, the
communication channel can be optionally utilized to initiate a test of the monitored sump pump
installation in advance of an impending weather event. In particular, a control signal initiated
from a central monitoring location, or alternatively a control signal automatically initiated by a
computerized weather monitoring system, can, in reaction to a serious storm or other threat,
                                                 42

   address one or more sump pump test and monitoring systems in a selected threat region to
  initiate a test of the sump installations monitored by those systems.
   [1331       To this end, a command signal is sent over the existing bi-directional communication
  channel 311 to communication circuitry 312 within the control modules of each addressed
  monitoring system. This command signal is conveyed through a system address filter 313, which
  compares the command signal with a stored unit address in a memory 314. If a match exists, the
  command signal is recognized and a control signal is applied through a conditioning pulse circuit
  315 to condition test cycle latch 310 to a SET state, thereby starting a test cycle in the designated
  test and monitoring system.
   [134]       Once the test cycle is initiated, the test continues until a result is obtained, which is
  conveyed back over the communications channel to the monitoring center and other owner
 designated recipients in a conventional manner. Successful receipt of the test command can also
 be conveyed back to the originator by a signal conditioning circuit 316 if desired. Thus, extreme
 weather events involving heavy rainfall can be protected against by selective proactive testing of
 sump pump installations likely to experience the events. The functionality of the described
 remote activation system can be most advantageously implemented within a microprocessor
 based system such as those shown in Figures 1, 14, 23 and 27.
  [1351       Referring to Figure 34, to preclude the fresh water valve 33 from being actuated by a
failure in processor 255, the sump pump test and monitoring systems previously described can,
in accordance with another aspect of the disclosure, be optionally provided with a protection
circuit 320. Utilizing this system, the valve actuating signal generated by the system processor
for application to protective circuit 320 is, instead of a simple actuating signal, a square wave
                                                    43

 signal of predetermined frequency, or of some other complex waveform, possible only in the
 event of the processor operating normally.
  [1361      This complex signal is analyzed by the protective circuitry and if determined to be of
 the correct format, converted to a steady state control signal which is applied to solenoid 52 to
 open valve 33. Thus, in the event of a malfunction in microprocessor 255, the requisite complex
 valve control signal will not be supplied to the protective circuit, and no actuating signal will be
 applied to valve module 33. Thus, valve protection circuit 320 functions to prevent valve 33
from being inadvertently actuated by a processor malfunction, thereby increasing the reliability
of the system. The functionality of the described valve protection system can be most
advantageously implemented within a microprocessor-based system such as those shown in
Figures 1, 14, 23 and 27.
 [137]       The foregoing detailed descriptions have been given for clearness of understanding
only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom. It will be apparent to those
skilled in the art, that changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the
invention in its broader aspects, and, therefore, the intent in the appended claims is to cover all
such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
                                                 44

   1002214209
                                                   CLAIMS
           What is claimed is:
           1. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
           an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
 5 upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump
   installation upon receipt of a close signal;
           a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
           upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
           upon detection of a reset event, supply the close signal to the valve;
10         a failed test module in communication with the test control module, comprising a liquid
   level sensor configured to supply a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of
   a liquid level reaching a predetermined level in the pump installation;
           a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
   supply a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of current supplied to a
15 motor of the pump installation; and,
           an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
   indicate a successful test upon receipt by the test control module of the reset event signal from
   the current sensor.
           2. The system of claim 1, wherein the indicator is further configured to indicate a failed
20 test upon receipt of the reset event signal from the failed test module by the test control module.
           3. The system of claim 1, wherein the failed test module comprises a test cycle timer,
    configured to start upon initiation of the test cycle, and provide the reset event signal to the test
    control module upon lapse of a predetermined time.
           4. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
                                                        45

         an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
   upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid upon receipt of a
   close signal;
         a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
 5       upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
         upon detection of a predetermined event, supply the close signal to the valve;
         a liquid level sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured
   to provide a signal upon a liquid level reaching a predetermined level in the pump installation;
   and,
10       an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
   indicate results of the test cycle.
          5. The system of claim 4, wherein the test cycle is initiated upon manual input.
          6. The system of claim 4, wherein the test cycle is initiated upon lapse of a timer.
          7. The system of claim 4, wherein the predetermined event comprises a lapse of a timer.
15        8. The system of claim 7, wherein the test control module is configured to initiate the timer
   upon providing the open signal to the valve.
          9. The system of claim 7, wherein the timer corresponds with a time to fill a sump
   container of the pump installation to a predetermined level.
          10. The system of claim 4, wherein the test control module is configured to calculate a time
20 for the timer based on an output from the liquid level sensor.
          11. The system of claim 10, wherein the time comprises a time from an opening of the
   valve to receipt of the signal from the liquid level sensor.
          12. The system of claim 4, wherein the predetermined event comprises receipt of the signal
    from the liquid level sensor.
25
                                                      46

   I,UUzzI Z] 'd
              13. The system of claim 4, further comprising a current sensor in electrical communication
   with the test control module, configured to supply a signal corresponding with current to a motor
   of the pump installation.
              14. The system of claim 13, wherein the predetermined event comprises receipt of the
 5 signal from the current sensor corresponding with current to the motor of the pump installation.
              15. The system of claim 14, wherein the indicator is further configured to provide an
   indication of a successful test upon receipt of a signal from the current sensor corresponding with
   current to the motor of the pump installation.
               16. The system of claim 4, further comprising:
10            a pump motor power supply; and,
              a current sensor in electrical communication with the pump motor power supply and the
   test control module, the current sensor configured to supply a signal corresponding with current
   supplied by the pump motor power supply.
               17. The system of claim 16, wherein the predetermined event comprises receipt of the
15 signal from the current sensor corresponding with current supplied by the pump motor power
   supply.
               18. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
              an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
   upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump
20 installation upon receipt of a close signal;
              a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
              upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
               upon detection of a reset event, supply the close signal to the valve;
               a test cycle timer in communication with the test control module, configured to start upon
25  initiation of the test cycle, and provide a reset event to the test control module upon lapse of a
                                                          47

     predetermined time corresponding with a time to fill a sump container of the pump installation to
     a predetermined level; and,
            an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
     indicate results of the test cycle.
  5         19. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
            an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
    upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump
     installation upon receipt of a close signal;
            a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
 10         upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
            upon detection of a reset event, supply the close signal to the valve;
            a liquid level sensor in communication with the test control module, configured to provide
    a reset event signal to the test control module upon a liquid level reaching a predetermined level
    in the pump installation; and,
 15         an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    indicate a result of the test cycle.
           20. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
           an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
    upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid upon receipt of a
20  close signal;
           a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
           upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
           upon lapse of a timer corresponding with a time to fill a container of the pump installation
    to a predetermined level, supply the close signal to the valve; and,
                                                        48

           an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    indicate results of the test cycle.
          21. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
          an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
  5 upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid upon receipt of a
    close signal;
          a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
          upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
          upon detection of a predetermined event, supply the close signal to the valve; and,
 10       an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    indicate results of the test cycle.
          22. The system of claim 21, wherein the test cycle is initiated upon mutual input.
          23. The system of claim 21, wherein the test cycle is initiated upon lapse of a timer.
          24. The system of claim 21, wherein the predetermined event comprises a lapse of a timer.
 15       25. The system of claim 24, wherein the test control module is configured to initiate the
    timer upon providing the open signal to the valve.
          26. The system of claim 21,           further comprising a current sensor in electrical
    communication with the test control module, configured to supply a signal corresponding with
    current to a motor of the pump installation.
20        27. The system of claim 26, wherein the predetermined event comprises receipt of the
    signal from the current sensor corresponding with current to the motor of the pump installation.
          28. The system of claim 26, wherein the indicator is further configured to provide an
    indication of a successful test upon receipt of a signal from the current sensor corresponding with
    current to the motor of the pump installation.
25
                                                      49

           29. The system of claim 21, further comprising:
           a pump motor power supply; and,
           a current sensor in electrical communication with the pump motor power supply and the
    test control module, the current sensor configured to supply a signal corresponding with current
  5  supplied by the pump motor power supply.
           30. The system of claim 29, wherein the predetermined event comprises receipt of the
    signal from the current sensor corresponding with current supplied by the pump motor power
    supply.
           31. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
 10        an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
    upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump
    installation upon receipt of a close signal;
           a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
           upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
 15        upon detection of a reset event, supply the close signal to the valve;
           a failed test module in communication with the test control module, configured to supply a
    reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of a failed test;
           a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    supply a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of current supplied to a
20  motor of the pump installation; and,
           an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
    indicate a successful test upon receipt by the test control module of the reset event signal from
    the current sensor.
                                                       50

          32. The system of claim 31, wherein the indicator is further configured to indicate a failed
   test upon receipt of the reset event signal from the failed test module by the test control module.
          33. The system of claim 31, wherein the failed test module comprises a test cycle timer,
   configured to start upon initiation of the test cycle, and provide the reset event signal to the test
 5 control module upon lapse of a predetermined time.
          34. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
          an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
   upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump
   installation upon receipt of a close signal;
10        a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
          upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
          upon detection of a reset event, supply the close signal to the valve;
          a test cycle timer in communication with the test control module, configured to start upon
   initiation of the test cycle, and provide a reset event to the test control module upon lapse of a
15 predetermined time; and,
          an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
   indicate results of the test cycle.
          35. A system for testing operation of a pump installation, comprising:
          an electrically-actuated valve configured to open to admit liquid to the pump installation
20 upon receipt of an open signal, and to close to stop the admittance of liquid to the pump
   installation upon receipt of a close signal;
          a test control module in electrical communication with the valve, and configured to:
          upon initiation of a test cycle, supply the open signal to the valve; and,
          upon detection of a reset event, supply the close signal to the valve;
                                                      51

        a current sensor in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
  provide a reset event signal to the test control module upon detection of current supplied to a
  motor of a sump pump of the pump installation; and,
        an indicator in electrical communication with the test control module, configured to
5 indicate a successful test upon the reset event signal from the current sensor.
                                                   52

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
