   ABSTRACT
   The invention suggests a method for providing control signalling in a communication system,
   comprising the steps performed by a base station of the communication system of generating a
   control channel signal comprising a transport format and a channel quality indicator trigger signal
 5 for triggering a transmission of a channel quality indicator by at least one terminal to the base
   station, and transmitting the generated control channel signal to at least one terminal, wherein said
   transport format is a predetermined format for user data transmission by the at least one terminal to
   the base station and said control channel signal indicates a predetermined mode for reporting the
   channel quality indicator to the base station, wherein the channel quality indicator transmission is to
10 be triggered by the at least one terminal based on the channel quality indicator trigger signal.

        Control Channel Signalling For Triggering the Independent Transmission
                                   of a Channel Quality Indicator
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The invention relates to a method for providing control signalling in a communication system
 5 comprising a base station and a terminal, said method being performed by said base station. Further,
   it relates to a method performed by said terminal. Moreover, the invention provides a corresponding
   base station and a terminal.
   Incorporated herein by reference,       in its entirety, is PCT/EP2009/002422         (published as
   W02009/135574), filed on 2 April 2009.
10 TECHNICAL BACKGROUND
   Packet Scheduling and Shared Channel Transmission
   In wireless communication systems employing packet scheduling, at least part of the air interface
   resources are assigned dynamically to different users (mobile stations - MS or user equipments
   UE). Those dynamically allocated resources are typically mapped to at least one Physical Uplink or
15 Downlink Shared CHannel (PUSCH or PDSCH). A PUSCHc or PDSCH may for example have
   one of the following configurations:
   -        One or multiple codes in a CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) system are dynamically
   shared between multiple MS.
   -        One or multiple subcarriers (subbands) in an OFDMA (Orthogonal Frequency Division
20 Multiple Access) system are dynamically shared between multiple MS.
   -        Combinations of the above in an OFCDMA (Orthogonal Frequency Code Division
   Multiplex Access) or a MC CDMA (Multi Carrier Code Division Multiple Access) system are
   dynamically shared between multiple MS.
   Fig. 1 shows a packet scheduling system on a shared channel for systems with a single shared data
25 channel. A sub-frame (also referred to as a time slot) reflects the smallest interval at which the
   scheduler (e.g. the Physical Layer or MAC Layer Scheduler) performs the dynamic resource
                                                      1

   allocation (DRA). In Fig. 1, a TTI (transmission time interval) equal to one sub-frame is assumed.
   Generally a TTI may span over multiple sub frames.
   Further, the smallest unit of radio resources (also referred to as a resource block or resource unit),
   which can be allocated in OFDM systems, is typically defined by one sub-frame in time domain and
 5 by one subcarrier/subband in the frequency domain. Similarly, in a CDMA system this smallest unit
   of radio resources is defined by a sub-frame in the time domain and a code in the code domain.
   In OFCDMA or MC-CDMA systems, this smallest unit is defined by one sub-frame in time
   domain, by one subcarrier/subband in the frequency domain and one code in the code domain. Note
   that dynamic resource allocation may be performed in time domain and in code/frequency domain.
10 The main benefits of packet scheduling are the multi-user diversity gain by time domain scheduling
   (TDS) and dynamic user rate adaptation.
   Assuming that the channel conditions of the users change over time due to fast and slow fading, at a
   given time instant the scheduler can assign available resources (codes in case of CDMA,
   subcarriers/subbands in case of OFDMA) to users having good channel conditions in time domain
15 scheduling.
   Specifics of DRA and Shared Channel Transmission in OFDMA
   Additionally to exploiting multi-user diversity in time domain by Time Domain Scheduling (TDS),
   in OFDMA multi-user diversity can also be exploited in frequency domain by Frequency Domain
   Scheduling (FDS). This is because the OFDM signal is in frequency domain constructed out of
20 multiple narrowband subcarriers (typically grouped into subbands), which can be assigned
   dynamically to different users. By this, the frequency selective channel properties due to multi-path
   propagation can be exploited to schedule users on frequencies (subcarriers/subbands) on which they
   have a good channel quality (multi-user diversity in frequency domain).
   For practical reasons in an OFDMA system the bandwidth is divided into multiple subbands, which
25 consist out of multiple subcarriers. I.e. the smallest unit on which a user may be allocated would
   have a bandwidth of one subband and a duration of one slot or one sub-frame (which may
   correspond to one or multiple OFDM symbols), which is denoted as a resource block (RB).
   Typically, a subband consists of consecutive subcarriers. However, in some cases it is desired to
   form a subband out of distributed non-consecutive subcarriers. A scheduler may also allocate a user
30 over multiple consecutive or non-consecutive subbands and/or sub-frames.
                                                      2

   For the 3GPP Long Term Evolution (3GPP TR 25.814: "Physical Layer Aspects for Evolved
   UTRA", Release 7, v. 7.1.0, October 2006 - available at http://www.3gpp.org and incorporated
   herein by reference), a 10 MHz system (normal cyclic prefix) may consist out of 600 subcarriers
   with a subcarrier spacing of 15 kHz. The 600 subcarriers may then be grouped into 50 subbands (a
 5 12 adjacent subcarriers), each subband occupying a bandwidth of 180 kHz. Assuming, that a slot
   has a duration of 0.5 ms, a resource block (RB) spans over 180 kHz and 0.5 ms according to this
   example.
   In order to exploit multi-user diversity and to achieve scheduling gain in frequency domain, the data
   for a given user should be allocated on resource blocks on which the users have a good channel
10 condition. Typically, those resource blocks are close to each other and therefore, this transmission
   mode is also denoted as localized mode (LM). However, it cannot be generally assumed that the
   scheduling entity is aware of the prevalent channel conditions. Therefore, it may be necessary to
   transmit such Channel Quality Indication (CQI) to the scheduling entity, e.g. from a terminal to a
   base station. Such information may comprise further parameters related to multiple antenna
15 transmission, such as a Precoding Patrix Indicator (PMI) and a Rank Indicator (RI). Such CQI, PMI,
   RI therefore should represent the conditions that are applicable to the downlink transmission, i.e.
   from a base station to at least one terminal.
   An example for a localized mode channel structure is shown in Fig. 2. In this example neighboring
   resource blocks are assigned to four mobile stations (MS1 to MS4) in the time domain and
20 frequency domain. Each resource block consists of a portion for carrying Layer 1 and/or Layer 2
   control signaling (L1/L2 control signaling) and a portion carrying the user data for the mobile
   stations.
   Alternatively, the users may be allocated in a distributed mode (DM) as shown in Fig. 3. In this
   configuration, a user (mobile station) is allocated on multiple resource blocks, which are distributed
25 over a range of resource blocks. In distributed mode a number of different implementation options
   are possible. In the example shown in Fig. 3, a pair of users (MSs 1/2 and MSs 3/4) shares the same
   resource blocks. Several further possible exemplary implementation options may be found in 3GPP
   RAN WG#1 Tdoc R1-062089, "Comparison between RB-level and Sub-carrier-level Distributed
   Transmission for Shared Data Channel in E-UTRA Downlink", August 2006 (available at
30 http://www.3gpp.org and incorporated herein by reference).
   It should be noted, that multiplexing of localized mode and distributed mode within a sub frame is
   possible, where the amount of resources (RBs) allocated to localized mode and distributed mode
                                                       3

   may be fixed, semi static (constant for tens/hundreds of sub frames) or even dynamic (different
   from sub frame to sub-frame).
   In localized mode as well as in distributed mode in - a given sub-frame - one or multiple data blocks
   (which are inter alia referred to as transport blocks) may be allocated separately to the same user
 5 (mobile station) on different resource blocks, which may or may not belong to the same service or
   Automatic Repeat reQuest (ARQ) process. Logically, this can be understood as allocating different
   users.
   L1/L2 Control Signaling
   In order to provide sufficient side information to correctly receive or transmit data in systems
10 employing packet scheduling, so called L1/L2 control signaling (Physical Downlink Control
   CHannel - PDCCH) needs to be transmitted. Typical operation mechanisms for downlink and
   uplink data transmission are discussed below.
   Downlink Data Transmission
   Along with the downlink packet data transmission, in existing implementations using a shared
15 downlink channel, such as 3GPP-based High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA), L1/L2
   control signaling is typically transmitted on a separate physical (control) channel.
   This L1/L2 control signaling typically contains information on the physical resource(s) on which
   the downlink data is transmitted (e.g. subcarriers or subcarrier blocks in case of OFDM, codes in
   case of CDMA). This information allows the mobile station (receiver) to identify the resources on
20 which the data is transmitted. Another parameter in the control signaling is the transport format used
   for the transmission of the downlink data.
   Typically, there are several possibilities to indicate the transport format. For example, the transport
   block (TB) size of the data (payload size, information bits size), the Modulation and Coding
   Scheme (MCS) level, the Spectral Efficiency, the code rate, etc. may be signaled to indicate the
25 transport format (TF). This information (usually together with the resource allocation) allows the
   mobile station (receiver) to identify the number of information bits, the modulation scheme and the
   code rate in order to start the demodulation, the de rate matching and the decoding process. In some
   cases the modulation scheme maybe signaled explicitly.
                                                       4

   In addition, in systems employing Hybrid ARQ (HARQ), HARQ information may also form part of
   the L1/L2 signaling. This HARQ information typically indicates the HARQ process number, which
   allows the mobile station to identify the Hybrid ARQ process on which the data is mapped, the
   sequence number or new data indicator, allowing the mobile station to identify if the transmission is
 5 a new packet or a retransmitted packet and a redundancy and/or constellation version. The
   redundancy version and/or constellation version tells the mobile station, which HARQ redundancy
   version is used (required for de-rate matching) and/or which modulation constellation version is
   used (required for demodulation).
   A further parameter in the HARQ information is typically the UE Identity (UE ID) for identifying
10 the mobile station to receive the L1/L2 control signaling. In typical implementations this
   information is used to mask the CRC (cyclic redundancy check) of the L1/L2 control signaling in
   order to prevent other mobile stations to read this information.
   The table below (Table 1) illustrates an example of a L1/L2 control channel signal structure for
   downlink scheduling as known from 3GPP TR 25.814 (see section 7.1.1.2.3 - FFS             = for further
15 study):
                  Field                                   Size   Comment
                                                                 Indicates the UE (or group of UEs)
                  ID (UE or group specific)              [8-9]   for which the data transmission is
                                                                 intended
                                                                 Indicates which (virtual) resource
                                                                 units (and layers in case of multi
           CE     Resource assignment                    FFS
                                                                 layer transmission) the UE(s) shall
                                                                 demodulate.
                                                                 The duration for which the
                  Duration of assignment                  2-3    assignment is valid, could also be
                                                                 used to control the TTI or persistent
                                                                 scheduling.
                                                                 Content depends on the
             oMulti-antenna related
                                                         FFS     MIMO/beam-forming schemes
             0    information
                                                                 selected.
                                                       5

                                                              QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM. In case of
                  Modulation scheme                     2     multi-layer transmission, multiple
                                                              instances may be required.
                                                              Interpretation could depend on e.g.
                                                              modulation scheme and the number
                                                              of assigned resource units (c.f.
                  Payload size                          6
                                                              HSDPA). In case of multi-layer
                                                              transmission, multiple instances may
                                                              be required.
                                   Hybrid ARQ           3     Indicates the hybrid ARQ process the
                  if               process number             current transmission is addressing.
                  asynchronous     Redundancy           2     To support incremental redundancy.
                  hybrid ARQ is version
          c       adopted          New data
                                                        1     To handle soft buffer clearing.
      r ~                          indicator
                  If                                          Used to derive redundancy version
                                   Retransmission
                  synchronous                                 (to support incremental redundancy)
                                   sequence             2
                  hybrid ARQ is                               and 'new data indicator' (to handle
                                   number
                  adopted                                     soft buffer clearing).
   Table 1
   Uplink Data Transmission
   Similarly, also for uplink transmissions, L1/L2 signaling is provided on the downlink to the
 5 transmitters in order to inform them on the parameters for the uplink transmission. Essentially, the
   L1/L2 control channel signal is partly similar to the one for downlink transmissions. It typically
   indicates the physical resource(s) on which the UE should transmit the data (e.g. subcarriers or
   subcarrier blocks in case of OFDM, codes in case of CDMA) and a transport format the mobile
   station should use for uplink transmission. Further, the L1/L2 control information may also
10 comprise Hybrid ARQ information, indicating the HARQ process number, the sequence number
   and/or new data indicator, and further the redundancy version and/or constellation version. In
   addition, there may be a UE Identity (UE ID) comprised in the control signaling.
                                                    6

   Variants
   There are several different flavors how to exactly transmit the information pieces mentioned above.
   Moreover, the L1/L2 control information may also contain additional information or may omit
   some of the information. For example, the HARQ process number may not be needed in case of
 5 using no or a synchronous HARQ protocol. Similarly, the redundancy and/or constellation version
   may not be needed, if for example Chase Combining is used (i.e. always the same redundancy
   and/or constellation version is transmitted) or if the sequence of redundancy and/or constellation
   versions is pre-defined.
   Another variant may be to additionally include power control information in the control signaling or
10 MIMO (multiple input - multiple output) related control information, such as e.g. pre-coding
   information. In case of multi-codeword MIMO transmission transport format and/or HARQ
   information for multiple code words may be included.
   In case of uplink data transmission, part or all of the information listed above may be signaled on
   uplink, instead of on the downlink. For example, the base station may only define the physical
15 resource(s) on which a given mobile station shall transmit. Accordingly, the mobile station may
   select and signal the transport format, modulation scheme and/or HARQ parameters on the uplink.
   Which parts of the L1/L2 control information is signaled on the uplink and which proportion is
   signaled on the downlink is typically a design issue and depends on the view how much control
   should be carried out by the network and how much autonomy should be left to the mobile station.
20 The table below (Table 2) illustrates an example of a L1/L2 control channel signal structure for
   uplink scheduling as known from 3GPP TR 25.814 (see section 7.1.1.2.3 - FFS        = for further study):
            Field                              Size            Comment
            ID (UE or group specific)          [8-9]           Indicates the UE (or group of UEs) for
                                                               which the grant is intended
                                                               Indicates which uplink resources,
      Cd
             RsnFFS                                            localized or distributed, the UE is
            Resource assignment
                                                               allowed to use for uplink data
                                                               transmission.
                                                     7

                                                                The duration for which the assignment
                                                                is valid. The use for other purposes,
             Duration of assignment             2-3
                                                                e.g., to control persistent scheduling,
                                                                'per process' operation, or TTI length,
                                                                is FFS.
                                                                The uplink transmission parameters
                                                                (modulation scheme, payload size,
                                                                MIMO-related information, etc) the UE
             Transmission parameters            FFS             shall use. If the UE is allowed to select
                                                                (part of) the transport format, this field
                                                                sets determines an upper limit of the
                                                                transport format the UE may select.
   Table 2
   Another, more recent suggestion of a L1/L2 control signaling structure for uplink and downlink
   transmission may be found in 3GPP TSG-RAN WG1 #50 Tdoc. R1-073870, "Notes from offline
 5 discussions on PDCCH contents", August 2007, available at http://www.3gpp.org and incorporated
   herein by reference.
   As indicated above, L1/L2 control signaling has been defined for systems that are already deployed
   to in different countries, such as for example, 3GPP HSDPA. For details on 3GPP HSDPA it is
   therefore referred to 3GPP TS 25.308, "High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA); Overall
10 description; Stage 2", version 7.4.0, September 2007 (available at http://wwwv.3gpp.org) and Harri
   Holma and Antti Toskala, "WCDMA for UMTS, Radio Access For Third Generation Mobile
   Communications", Third Edition, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., 2004, chapters 11.1 to 11.5, for further
   reading.
   As described in section 4.6 of 3GPP TS 25.212, "Multiplexing and Channel Coding (FDD"),
15 version 7.6.0, September 2007 (available at http://www.3gpp.org), in HSDPA the "Transport
   Format" (TF) (Transport block size information (6 bits)), the "Redundancy and Constellation
   Version" (RV/CV) (2 bits) and the "New Data Indicator" (NDI) (1 bit) are signaled separately by in
   total 9 bits. It should be noted that the NDI is actually serving as a 1-bit HARQ Sequence Number
   (SN), i.e. the value is toggled with each new transport-block to be transmitted.
                                                       8

   Channel Quality Indication (CQI)
   The section 7.2 of 3GPP TS 36.213 "UE procedure for reporting channel quality indication (CQI),
   precoding matrix indicator (PMI) and rank indication (RI)" Version 8.2.0, March 2008 (available at
   http://www.3gpp.org) defines the reporting of Channel Quality Indicators.
 5 The time and frequency resources that can be used by the UE to report CQI, PMI, and RI are
   controlled by the eNodeB. For spatial multiplexing, as given in 3GPP TS 36.211: "Evolved
   Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical channels and modulation", the UE shall
   determine a RI corresponding to the number of useful transmission layers. For transmit diversity as
   given in the above-mentioned technical specifications, RI is equal to one.
10 CQI, PMI, and RI reporting is periodic or aperiodic. A UE transmits CQI, PMI, and RI reporting on
   a Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH) for sub-frames with no Physical Uplink Shared
   CHannel (PUSCH) allocation. A UE transmits CQI, PMI, and RI reporting on a PUSCH for those
   sub-frames with PUSCH allocation for
   a)      scheduled PUSCH transmissions with or without an associated scheduling grant or
15 b)      PUSCH transmissions with no UL-SCH (Uplink Shared Channel).
   The CQI transmissions on PUCCH and PUSCH for various scheduling modes are summarized in
   the following Table 3, which shows the physical channels for aperiodic or periodic CQI reporting:
   Scheduling Mode                   Periodic     CQI      reporting    Aperiodic    CQI     reporting
                                     channels                           channel
   Frequency non-selective           PUCCH                              PUSCH
                                     PUSCH
   Frequency selective               PUCCH                              PUSCH
                                     PUSCH
   Table 3
                                                    9

   In case both periodic and aperiodic reporting would occur in the same sub-frame, the UE shall only
   transmit the aperiodic report in that sub-frame.
   Aperiodic/Periodic CQI/PMI/RI Reporting Using PUSCH
   A UE shall perform aperiodic CQI, PMI and RI reporting using the PUSCH upon receiving an
 5 indication sent in the scheduling grant, hereafter also called channel quality indicator trigger signal.
   The aperiodic CQI report size and message format is given by the RRC (Radio Resource Control
   protocol). The minimum reporting interval for aperiodic reporting of CQI and PMI and RI is 1 sub
   frame. The sub-band size for CQI shall be the same for transmitter-receiver configurations with and
   without precoding.
10 A UE is semi-statically configured by higher layers to feed back CQI and PMI and corresponding
   RI on the same PUSCH using one of the following reporting modes given in Table 4 and described
   below:
                                                               PMI Feedback Type
                                                     No PMI
                                                                 Single PMI    Multiple PMI
                                    Wideband
                                                                                 Mode 1-2
                                (wideband CQI)
                                   UE Selected
                                                     Mode 2-0     Mode 2-1       Mode 2-2
                                 (subband CQI)
                            Higher Layer-configured
                                                     Mode 3-0     Mode 3-1       Mode 3-2
                                 (subband CQI)
   Table 4
15
                                                      10

   Channel quality indicator (CQI) definition
   The number of entries in the CQI table for a single TX antenna is equal to 16, as given by Table 5
   represented below, which shows a 4-bit CQI. A single CQI index corresponds to an index pointing
   to a value in the CQI table. The CQI index is defined in terms of a channel coding rate value and
 5 modulation scheme (QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM).
   Based on an unrestricted observation interval in time and frequency, the UE shall report the highest
   tabulated CQI index, for which a single PDSCH sub-frame could be received in a 2-slot downlink
   sub-frame (aligned, reference period ending z slots before the start of the first slot in which the
   reported CQI index is transmitted) and for which the transport block error probability would not
10 exceed 0.1.
                           CQI index  modulation     coding rate x 1024 efficiency
                               0                        out of range
                               1         QPSK                78           0.1523
                               2         QPSK                120          0.2344
                               3         QPSK                193          0.3770
                               4         QPSK                308          0.6016
                               5         QPSK                449          0.8770
                               6         QPSK                602          1.1758
                               7        16QAM                378          1.4766
                               8        16QAM                490          1.9141
                               9        16QAM                616          2.4063
                              10        64QAM                466          2.7305
                              11        64QAM                567          3.3223
                              12        64QAM                666          3.9023
                              13        64QAM                772          4.5234
                              14        64QAM                873          5.1152
                                                    11

                               15        64QAM             948            5.5547
   Table 5
   Precoding Matrix Indicator (PMI) definition
 5 For closed-loop spatial multiplexing transmission, precoding feedback is used for channel
   dependent codebook based precoding and relies on UEs reporting precoding matrix indicator (PMI).
   A UE shall report PMI based on the feedback modes described above. Each PMI value corresponds
   to a codebook index given in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 or Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of 3GPP TS 36.211: "Evolved
   Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical channels and modulation". For open-loop
10 spatial multiplexing transmission, PMI reporting is not supported.
   As has been described above, the Physical Uplink Shared CHannel (PUSCH) may be used to
   transmit an aperiodic CQI report, which may be triggered by a special bit (CQI trigger) in the
   Physical Downlink Command Channel (PDCCH) grant. Usually, in case a data buffer at the UE is
   non-empty, user data and CQI are multiplexed with each other.
15 The PDCCH contains a field, the Modulation Code Scheme (MCS) level, ranging exemplarily from
   0 to 31, as illustrated in Table 6 below, which points to a row in the MCS/Transport Block Set
   (TBS) table. This example will serve as a basis for the description of the invention in the following.
   The resulting TBS and code rate can be computed from the entries in the MCS table and the number
   of granted resource blocks (RB). The modifications used depending on the allocation size, i.e. the
20 number of allocated resource blocks, are omitted for the sake of simplicity.
                                                    12

        MCS WIdex            modulation              coding rtie x1024    efficiency       Comments      CodelRte
            0                      2                        120            0.2344     from CI table       0.1171875
            1                      2                        157            0.3057     Average Efficiency 0.15332031
            2                      2                        193             0.377     from CQl table     0.18847656
            3                      2                        251            0.4893     Average Efficiency 0.24511719
            4                      2                        308            0.6016     from CQl table     0.30078125
            5                      2                        379            0.7393     Average Efficiency 0.37011719
            6                      2                        449             0.877     from CQl table     0.43847656
            7                      2                        526            1.0264     Average Efficiency 0.51367188
            8                      2                        602            1.1758     from CQl table     0.58789063
            9                      2                        679            1.3262     Average Efficiency 0.66308594
           10                      4                        340            1.3262     overlap            0.33203125
           11                      4                        378            1.4766     from CQl table     0.36914063
           12                      4                        434            1.69535    Average Efficiency 0.42382813
           13                      4                        490            1.9141     from CQl table     0.47851563
           14                      4                        553            2.1602     Average Efficiency 0.54003906
           15                      4                        616            2.4063     from CQl table      0.6015625
           16                      4                        658            2.5684     Average Efficiency 0.64257813
           17                      6                        438            2.5684     overlap            0.42773438
           18                      6                        466            2.7305     from CQl table     0.45507813
           19                      6                        517            3.0264     Average Efficiency 0.50488281
           20                      6                        567            3.3223     from CQl table     0.55371094
           21                      6                        616            3.6123     Average Efficiency  0.6015625
           22                      6                        666            3.9023     from CQl table     0.65039063
           23                      6                        719           4.21285     Average Efficiency 0.70214844
           24                      6                        772            4.5234     from CQl table     0.75390625
           25                      6                        822            4.8193     Average Efficiency 0.80273438
           26                      6                        873            5.1152     from CQl table     0.85253906
           27                      6                        910            5.33495    Average Efficiency 0.88867188
           28                      6                        948            5.5547     from CQl table     0.92578125
           29        DL: Implicit TBS signaling with QPSK     UL: Transmission using RV1
           30        DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 16QAM UL: Transmission using RV2
           31        DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 64QAM UL: Transmission using RV3
   Table 6
   In the Table 6 represented above, the MCS indexes 0 to 28 require an extra 2 bits for the coding of
 5 the Redundancy Version (RV) on the Downlink (DL). For the Uplink (UL), the RV parameter
   having the value 0 (RVO) is implicitly used.
   It is desirable to define a control signalling scheme, which allows to request a terminal to transmit
   an aperiodic CQI report to a base station, wherein the report only contains CQI information, i.e.
   without multiplexing the CQI information with Uplink Shared CHannel data, even in case the data
10 buffer at the terminal is non-empty. In this way, the base station would have an improved control on
   the content and error resilience of the aperiodic CQI report.
   Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion that this
   prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art
   could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant, and/or combined with other
15 pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                                                 13

   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One object of the present invention is to suggest control signaling in a communication system that
   allows to trigger the independent transmission of a Channel Quality Indicator by a terminal without
   spoiling resources. Further, a corresponding base station and terminal are to be provided.
 5 Alternatively or additionally, an object of the invention is to provide the public with a useful
   choice.
   As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise" and variations
   of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended to exclude
   further additives, components, integers or steps.
10 According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method comprising the following
   steps performed by a mobile terminal: receiving a control channel signal from a base station,
   wherein the control channel signal comprises a Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) Index,
   information on resource blocks used for a transmission from the mobile terminal to the base station,
   and a channel quality indicator trigger for triggering a transmission of an aperiodic channel quality
15 indicator report to the base station, in case when the channel quality indicator trigger is set and the
   control channel signal indicates a determined value of the MCS Index and also indicates a number
   of resource blocks that is smaller than or equal to a determined number of resource blocks,
   transmitting the aperiodic channel quality indicator report to the base station without multiplexing
   the aperiodic channel quality indicator report, with data to be transmitted by the mobile terminal via
20 an Uplink Shared Channel (UL-SCH), and in case (a) when the channel quality indicator trigger is
   set and the control channel signal does not indicate the determined value of the MCS Index, or in
   case (b) when the channel quality indicator trigger is set and the control channel does not indicate a
   number of resource blocks that is smaller than or equal to the determined number of resource
   blocks, transmitting the aperiodic channel quality indicator report to the base station while
25 multiplexing the aperiodic channel quality indicator report with data to be transmitted by the mobile
   terminal via the UL-SCH.
   According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a mobile terminal comprising: a
   receiver configured to receive a control channel signal from a base station, wherein the control
   channel signal comprises a Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) Index, information on resource
30 blocks used for a transmission from the mobile terminal to the base station, and a channel quality
   indicator trigger for triggering a transmission of an aperiodic channel quality indicator report to the
                                                      14

   base station, and a transmitter configured to transmit the aperiodic channel quality indicator report
   to the base station, the transmitter being further configured: to transmit the aperiodic channel quality
   indicator report without multiplexing the aperiodic channel quality indicator report with data to be
   transmitted by the mobile terminal via an Uplink Shared Channel (UL-SCH), in case when the
 5 channel quality indicator trigger is set and the control channel signal indicates a determined value of
   the MCS Index and also indicates a number of resource blocks that is smaller than or equal to a
   determined number of resource blocks, and to transmit the aperiodic channel quality indicator report
   while multiplexing the aperiodic channel quality indicator report, with data to be transmitted by the
   mobile terminal via the UL-SCH, in case (a) when the channel quality indicator trigger is set and the
10 control channel signal does not indicate the determined value of the MCS Index, or in case (b) when
   the channel quality indicator trigger is set and the control channel does not indicate a number of
   resource blocks that is smaller than or equal to the determined number of resource blocks.
   According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a base station comprising: a
   transmitter configured to transmit a control channel signal to a mobile terminal, wherein the control
15 channel signal comprises a Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) Index, information on resource
   blocks used for a transmission from the mobile terminal to the base station, and a channel quality
   indicator trigger for triggering a transmission of an aperiodic channel quality indicator report from
   the mobile station to the base station, and a receiver configured to receive from the mobile terminal
   the aperiodic channel quality indicator report when the channel quality indicator trigger is set,
20 wherein the aperiodic channel quality indicator report is not multiplexed with data transmitted by
   the mobile terminal via an Uplink Shared Channel (UL-SCH) in case when the control channel
   signal indicates a determined value of the MCS Index and also indicates a number of resource
   blocks that is smaller than or equal to a determined number of resource blocks, and wherein the
   aperiodic channel quality indicator report is multiplexed with data transmitted by the mobile
25 terminal via the UL-SCH, in case (a) when the control channel signal does not indicate the
   determined value of the MCS Index, or in case (b) when the control channel does not indicate a
   number of resource blocks that is smaller than or equal to the determined number of resource
   blocks.
   Described herein is use a selected transport format for CQI report in a predetermined reporting
30 mode just in selected conditions. More generally, a control channel signal from a base station to a
   terminal is defined, which comprises a selected transport format, which is to be used by the terminal
   for user data transmission to the base station. The transport format is selected so that it has a
                                                       15

   minimum impact on the system. The interpretation of the selected transport format by the terminal
   depends on a CQI trigger signal comprised in the control channel signal.
   Also described herein is a method for providing control signalling in a communication system,
   comprising the steps performed by a base station of the communication system of generating a
 5 control channel signal comprising a transport format and a channel quality indicator trigger signal
   for triggering a transmission of a channel quality indicator by at least one terminal to the base
   station, and transmitting the generated control channel signal to at least one terminal, wherein said
   transport format is a predetermined format for user data transmission by the at least one terminal to
   the base station and said control channel signal indicates a predetermined mode for reporting the
10 channel quality indicator to the base station, wherein the channel quality indicator transmission is to
   be triggered by the at least one terminal based on the channel quality indicator trigger signal.
   Also described herein is a method for use in a communication system, said method comprising the
   steps performed by a terminal of the communication system of receiving, from a base station of the
   communication system, a frame of physical radio resources comprising a control channel signal
15 destined to the terminal, wherein the control channel signal comprises a predetermined transport
   format and a channel quality indicator trigger signal for triggering a transmission of a channel
   quality indicator by the terminal to the base station, wherein said transport format is a
   predetermined format for user data transmission by the at least one terminal to the base station and
   said control channel signal indicates a predetermined mode for reporting the channel quality
20 indicator to the base station, said method further comprising transmitting a channel quality indicator
   to the base station using the indicated predetermined mode, wherein the channel quality indicator
   transmission is triggered based on the channel quality indicator trigger signal.
   In case data are to be transmitted by the terminal to the base station, said data are buffered upon
   reception of said control channel signal, and the terminal waits for a signal from the base station
25 before resuming data transmission.
   The indicated predetermined mode for reporting the channel quality indicator is an aperiodic
   channel quality indicator reporting mode, wherein the aperiodic channel quality indicator is to be
   transmitted by the at least one terminal to the base station without multiplexing with user data.
   The predetermined transport format indicates a redundancy version parameter of a user data
30 retransmission by the at least one terminal, wherein the channel quality indicator transmission is to
                                                      16

   be triggered by the at least one terminal for a predetermined value of the redundancy version
   parameter.
   The predetermined value of the redundancy version parameter corresponds to a redundancy version
   that is infrequently used for data retransmission.
 5 The predetermined transport format is selected among a plurality of transport formats having a same
   spectral efficiency.
   The predetermined transport format is selected among a plurality of transport formats such that the
   selected predetermined transport format is associated with a code rate that is equal to or larger than
   a predetermined code rate.
10 The control channel signal contains information on resource blocks used for the transmission from
   the at least one terminal to the base station, and the transmission of the channel quality indicator
   using the predetermined mode is to be triggered only in case said information on the resource blocks
   indicates a number of resource blocks that is smaller or equal to a predetermined resource block
   number.
15 Also described herein is a base station, comprising generating means for generating a control
   channel signal comprising a transport format and a channel quality indicator trigger signal for
   triggering a transmission of a channel quality indicator by at least one terminal to the base station,
   and transmitting means for transmitting the generated control channel signal to at least one terminal,
   wherein said transport format is a predetermined format for user data transmission by the at least
20 one terminal to the base station and said control channel signal indicates a predetermined mode for
   reporting the channel quality indicator to the base station, wherein the channel quality indicator
   transmission is to be triggered by the at least one terminal based on the channel quality indicator
   trigger signal.
   Also described herein is a terminal, comprising receiving means for receiving, from a base station, a
25 frame of physical radio resources comprising a control channel signal destined to the terminal,
   wherein the control channel signal comprises a predetermined transport format and a channel
   quality indicator trigger signal for triggering a transmission of a channel quality indicator by the
   terminal to the base station, wherein said transport format is a predetermined format for user data
   transmission by the at least one terminal to the base station and said control channel signal indicates
30 a predetermined mode for reporting the channel quality indicator to the base station, said terminal
   further comprising transmitting means for transmitting a channel quality indicator to the base station
                                                      17

   using the indicated predetermined mode, wherein the channel quality indicator transmission is
   triggered based on the channel quality indicator trigger signal.
   The methods described herein may be implemented in software and hardware. Accordingly, also
   described herein is a computer readable medium for storing instructions that, when executed by a
 5 processor of a base station, cause the base station to generate a control channel signal comprising a
   transport format and a channel quality indicator trigger signal for triggering a transmission of a
   channel quality indicator by at least one terminal to the base station, and transmit the generated
   control channel signal to at least one terminal, wherein said transport format is a predetermined
   format for user data transmission by the at least one terminal to the base station and said control
10 channel signal indicates a predetermined mode for reporting the channel quality indicator to the
   base station, wherein the channel quality indicator transmission is to be triggered by the at least one
   terminal based on the channel quality indicator trigger signal.
   Also described herein is a computer readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a
   processor of a terminal, cause the mobile terminal to receive, from a base station, a frame of
15 physical radio resources comprising a control channel signal destined to the terminal, wherein the
   control channel signal comprises a predetermined transport format and a channel quality indicator
   trigger signal for triggering a transmission of a channel quality indicator by the terminal to the base
   station, wherein said transport format is a predetermined format for user data transmission by the at
   least one terminal to the base station and said control channel signal indicates a predetermined mode
20 for reporting the channel quality indicator to the base station, and transmit a channel quality
   indicator to the base station using the indicated predetermined mode, wherein the channel quality
   indicator transmission is triggered based on the channel quality indicator trigger signal.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   In the following, the invention is described in more detail in reference to the attached figures and
   drawings. Similar or corresponding details in the figures are marked with the same reference
   numerals.
   Fig. 1 shows an exemplary data transmission to users in an OFDMA system in localized mode
30 (LM) having a distributed mapping of L1/L2 control signaling,
                                                      18

   Fig. 2 shows an exemplary data transmission to users in an OFDMA system in localized mode
   (LM) having a distributed mapping of L1/L2 control signaling,
   Fig. 3 shows an exemplary data transmission to users in an OFDMA system in distributed mode
   (DM) having a distributed mapping of L1/L2 control signaling,
 5 Fig. 4 exemplarily highlights the interrelation between transport block/protocol data unit and its
   different redundancy versions as well as the transport block size/protocol data unit size, and
   Fig. 5 shows a mobile communication system according to one embodiment of the invention, in
   which the ideas of the invention may be implemented.
10
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   The following paragraphs will describe various embodiments of the invention. For exemplary
   purposes only, most of the embodiments are outlined in relation to an (evolved) UMTS
   communication system according to the SAE/LTE discussed in the Technical Background section
15 above. It should be noted that the invention may be advantageously used for example in connection
   with a mobile communication system such as the SAE/LTE communication system previously
   described or in connection with multi-carrier systems such as OFDM-based systems, but the
   invention is not limited to its use in this particular exemplary communication network. In particular,
   the invention can be implemented in any type of communication system comprising a base station
20 and a terminal, not necessarily a mobile terminal. For instance, a desktop PC with a UMTS/LTE
   card may serve as a terminal. Alternatively, the terminal may be collocated within an access station
   (static) for the last mile transmission using other than UMTS/LTE system.
   Before discussing the various embodiments of the invention in further detail below, the following
   paragraphs will give a brief overview on the meaning of several terms frequently used herein and
25 their interrelation and dependencies.
   In general, the transport format (TF) in 3GPP defines the modulation and coding scheme (MCS)
   and/or the transport block (TB) size, which is applied for the transmission of a transport block and
   is, therefore, required for appropriate (de)modulation and (de)coding.
                                                        19

   The L1/L2 control signaling may only need to indicate either the transport block size or the
   modulation and coding scheme. In case the modulation and coding scheme should be signaled, there
   are several options how to implement this signaling. For example, separate fields for modulation
   and coding or a joint field for signaling both, the modulation and coding parameters may be
 5 foreseen. In case the transport block size (TBS) should be signaled, the transport block size is
   typically not explicitly signaled, but is rather signaled as a TBS index. The interpretation of the TBS
   index to determine the actual transport block size may for example depend on the resource
   allocation size.
   In the following, the transport format field on the L1/L2 control signaling is assumed to be
10 indicating either the modulation and coding scheme or the transport block size. It should be noted,
   that the transport block size for a given transport block typically does not change during
   transmissions. However, even if the transport block size is not changed, the modulation and coding
   scheme may change between transmissions, e.g. if the resource allocation size is changed (as
   apparent for the described relationship above).
15 It should be also noted that in some embodiments of the invention, for retransmissions the transport
   block size is typically known from the initial transmission. Therefore, the transport format (MCS
   and/or TBS) information (even if the modulation and coding scheme changes between
   transmissions) does not have to be signaled in retransmissions, since the modulation and coding
   scheme can be determined from the transport block size and the resource allocation size, which can
20 be determined from the resource allocation field.
   A redundancy version denotes a set of encoded bits generated from a given transport block, as
   shown in Fig. 4. In systems, where the code rate for the data transmission is generated by a fixed
   rate encoder and a rate matching unit (e.g. in HSDPA of UMTS or LTE systems), different
   redundancy versions are generated for a single transport block (or protocol data unit) by selecting
25 different sets of available encoded bits, where the set size (number of selected bits) depends on the
   actual code rate (CR) for the data transmission. In case the actual code rate for a transmission (or
   retransmission) is higher than the encoder rate, a redundancy version is constructed out of a subset
   of encoded bits. In case the actual code rate for a transmission (or retransmission) is lower than the
   encoder rate, a redundancy version is typically constructed out of all encoded bits with selected bits
30 being repeated. It should be noted that the figure is simplified for easier understanding. The actual
   content of the redundancy version may differ from the depicted case. For example, RVO may
                                                        20

   contain only part of or all systematic bits as well as only part or all of parity bits. Likewise, RV1 and
   other RVs are not constrained to contain only non-systematic bits.
   It should be noted that for simplicity it is referred to transport format and redundancy version in
   most of the examples herein. However, in all embodiments of this invention the term "transport
 5 format" means either one of "transport format", "transport block size", "payload size" or
   "modulation and coding scheme". Similarly, in all embodiments of this invention the term
   "redundancy version" can be replaced by "redundancy version and/or constellation version".
   The present invention aims at providing a possibility for signaling a Channel Quality Indicator
   (CQI) reporting mode with impact as small as possible on the scalability of resource allocation and
10 signaling of other control parameters. In particular, the CQI reporting mode relates to an aperiodic
   reporting of CQI that is not multiplexed with user data even if the buffer is not empty, which will be
   further referred to as "CQI-only mode".
   From a certain perspective, a PMI is not fundamentally different from a CQI - the PMI suggests
   basically a precoding to use for good exploitation of the physical resource, and a CQI suggests
15 basically an MCS or TBS as mentioned previously to the same end. Therefore, it should be obvious
   to those skilled in the art that any following description of the invention with respect to CQI can be
   easily adapted mutatis mutandis to be used for PMI, or combinations thereof or with other
   information.
   A main idea of the invention relies on using a predetermined transport format for signalizing the
20 CQI-only reporting mode only in selected conditions. Accordingly, a control channel signal from a
   base station to a terminal is defined, which comprises the predetermined transport format.
   The control channel signal further comprises a CQI trigger signal for triggering a transmission of a
   CQI by the terminal. The interpretation of the selected transport format by the terminal depends on
   the status of one or more CQI trigger bits in the CQI trigger signal comprised in the control channel
25 signal. In case the CQI trigger signal indicates to the terminal to transmit a CQI report and the value
   of transport format parameter corresponds to the predetermined value, the terminal interprets this
   combination as a command to transmit such CQI in the predetermined mode, i.e. here the CQI-only
   mode, to the base station. If, on the other hand, the value of transport format parameter does not
   correspond to the predetermined value, even if CQI trigger is set, the terminal will interpret the CQI
30 trigger as well as the transport format parameter in their usual meaning. Those skilled in the art will
                                                       21

   recognise that this usual meaning may be a multiplexing of CQI with user data in an uplink
   transmission.
   The main advantage of the invention relies in that the overall structure and content of the
   MCS/TBS table is preserved for Uplink and Downlink. An MCS level is not spent completely for
 5 signalling the CQI reporting mode. Full flexibility for Downlink is retained and full flexibility for
   Uplink data-only transmission, i.e. without multiplexing CQI, is retained as well. Further, the
   invention allows to implement a CQI-only reporting mode without wasting a whole MCS level or
   any other unconditional value of any other parameter. This provides more flexibility for the Uplink
   scheduler, which results in better spectral efficiency.
10 According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the indicated predetermined mode for
   reporting the channel quality indicator is an aperiodic channel quality indicator reporting mode,
   wherein the aperiodic channel quality indicator is to be transmitted by the terminal to the base
   station without multiplexing with user data. This thus allows for signalling to the terminal to
   transmit a so-called "CQI-only" report to the base station.
15 A preferred embodiment of the invention will be described in the following by referring to the MCS
   entries illustrated in the example of Table 6.
   Since the CQI report is present in uplink only, the MCS table entries 29-31 shown in Fig. 6 are used
   for signalling the redundancy version (RV) of a retransmission. Usually, without a grant for a
   retransmission, the ordered sequence of RV parameters for transmissions is established to achieve
20 the best decoding performance using the least number of transmissions. For LTE/SAE, said ordered
   sequence has been established as RV      =  {0, 2, 3, 1}, since the use of the RV parameters 2 and 3
   before using the RV parameter 1 has a better performance. As a result, the RV parameter 1 is
   usually the least frequently used RV value, and consequently RV1 is the least frequently used
   redundancy version.
25 Hence, according to a preferred embodiment of the invention, only the reception of a control
   channel signal signalling a predetermined RV value, preferentially the RV value 1, together with a
   CQI trigger signal and a predetermined MCS index (transport format parameter value), will be
   interpreted by the terminal as meaning that a CQI-only report shall be transmitted to the base station
   on PUSCH. In case a control channel signal signalling the RV parameter 1 is received by the
30 terminal without a CQI trigger signal, the terminal interprets it as meaning that a transmission using
   the RV parameter 1 shall be performed.
                                                       22

   This is summarized in the following Table 7, where the predetermined transport format selected is
   the MCS entry 29:
       MCSIndex                                 Interpretaden
          0-28                             as before (MCS/TBS, ... )
           29       DL: Implicit TBS signaling with QPSK
                    UL with CQI Trigger: CQI-only transmission (=no data)
                    UL without COI Trigger: Transmission using RV1
           30       DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 16QAM UL: Transmission using RV2
           31       DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 64QAM UL: Transmission using RV3
   Table 7
 5 The basic idea of the invention is further extensible by using other conditional parameter values
   additionally to the transport format (e.g. MCS index) and CQI trigger. This enables even higher
   efficiency of resource utilization.
   A further embodiment of the invention will now be described in the following.
   The control channel signal contains information on resource blocks used for the transmission from
10 the terminal to the base station on the PUCCH. The transmission of the channel quality indicator
   CQI using the predetermined mode defined above is to be triggered by the terminal only in case the
   information on the resource blocks indicates a number of resource blocks that is smaller or equal to
   a predetermined resource block number.
   Indeed, the signalling of CQI-only mode is advantageous for small resource block assignments,
15 since the coding rate for large resource block assignments CQI-only would become unnecessarily
   low. Hence, according to this embodiment of the invention, the terminal shall transmit a CQI
   without multiplexing with user data only for a small number of resource block assignments.
   An example will be presented in the following for illustration purposes by referring to Table 8. In
   this example, the RV parameter is selected to be 1 as illustrated above. Even though 10 resource
20 blocks is chosen herewith, this is meant only for exemplary purposes and any other value could be
   chosen instead.
       MCS Index                                             Interpretation
          0-28                                          as before (MCS/TBS, ...)
           29       DL: Implicit TBS signaling with QPSK
                    UL, COl Trigger Set, <=10 RBs assigned: CQI-only transmission (=no data)
                    UL, COI Trigger Set, >10 RBs assigned: Transmission using RV1, mulitplexing of data and CQI
                    UL without COI Trigger: Transmission using RV1
           30       DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 16QAM UL: Transmission using RV2
           31       DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 64QAM UL: Transmission using RV3
                                                              23

   Table 8
   As apparent from Table 8, the transmission of a CQI-only is triggered by the terminal only when the
   CQI trigger signal is signalled and the RV is set to 1 (corresponding to MCS index value of 29) and
   if the number of assigned resource blocks is smaller than or equal to 10. In case the number of
 5 assigned resource blocks is larger than 10, even if the CQI trigger signal is signalled, the terminal
   will not transmit a CQI-only but will transmit the CQI report along with multiplexed data, using, for
   example, the redundancy version parameter having a value of 1.
   Furthermore, a UE experiencing good channel conditions, i.e. being assigned a large MCS, is likely
   to be allocated a lot of Resource Blocks, so that it is preferable to not lose flexibility for those cases
10 by interpreting such a signal as meaning CQI-only. Consequently, it may be preferable to use the
   cases where a number of Resource Blocks are allocated to a terminal greater than a predetermined
   threshold Resource Block value and an MCS value that is representing a spectral efficiency below a
   predetermined MCS or spectral efficiency threshold value to signal a CQI-only transmission.
   An alternative embodiment of the invention will now be presented in the following by referring to
15 Table 9, which, instead of using the predetermined RV parameter value, and preferentially the RV 1
   entry, proposes to use one of two transport formats, i.e. MCS indexes signalizing the modulation
   and coding combination, in the example of Table 9, that have an identical spectral efficiency.
                                                     24

         MCS Index                 modulation                 odiatg rte 3 1024     efficiency
               0                         2                           120              0.2344
                1                        2                           157              0.3057
               2                         2                           193               0.377
               3                         2                           251              0.4893
               4                         2                           308              0.6016
               5                         2                           379              0.7393
               6                         2                           449               0.877
               7                         2                           526              1.0264
               8                         2                           602              1.1758
            9 (DL)                       2                           679              1.3262
        9 (UL without                    2                           679              1.3262
         CQI trigger)    _
      9 (UL with CQI                       COQI-only transmission (=no data)
           trigger)
              10                         4                           340              1.3262
              11                         4                           378              1.4766
              12                         4                           434             1.69535
              13                         4                           490              1.9141
              14                         4                           553              2.1602
               15                        4                           616              2.4063
              16                         4                           658              2.5684
              17                         6                           438              2.5684
               18                        6                           466              2.7305
              19                         6                           517              3.0264
              20                         6                           567              3.3223
              21                         6                           616              3.6123
              22                         6                           666              3.9023
              23                         6                           719             4.21285
              24                         6                           772              4.5234
              25                         6                           822              4.8193
              26                         6                           873              5.1152
              27                         6                           910             5.33495
              28                         6                           948              5.5547
              29           DL: Implicit TBS signaling with QPSK
                           UL: Transmission using RV1
              30           DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 16QAM
                           UL: Transmission using RV2
              31           DL: Implicit TBS signaling with 64QAM
                          UL:  Transmission using RV3
   Table 9
   As apparent from Table 9, the MCS entries 9 and 10 have an identical spectral efficiency of 1.3262.
   Further, the MCS entries 16 and 17 each have the same spectral efficiency of 2.5684. Such
 5 overlapping entries (in terms of spectral efficiency) are foreseen, since a higher modulation scheme
   is more beneficial in a frequency-selective environment (see 3GPP RANI meeting 49bis Rl
   073105, "Downlink Link Adaptation and Related Control Signalling" for more details).
   The transmission of an independent CQI report without multiplexed data is more advantageous for
   small resource block assignments, where the channel is rather flat. Hence, an MCS entry
10 representing a higher-order modulation scheme with the same spectral efficiency as an MCS entry
   representing a lower spectral efficiency should be replaced. For example, with respect to Table 6,
   the respective "upper" MCS entry, i.e. 10 or 17, should be replaced.
                                                      25

   The transmission of a CQI report with multiplexed data costs Uplink data redundancy. In order to
   multiplex data and CQI, some redundancy that is added for the data part by means of forward error
   correction coding has to be taken out to make room for the CQI. Obviously, the more redundancy is
   added, the easier and less notable is it to take out a few bits for the to-be-multiplexed CQI. The
 5 "upper" entries have more redundancy to offer than the "lower", so it is less likely that a "lower"
   entry can support multiplexing a CQI report with data efficiently. In extreme cases, the added
   redundancy for the data could be smaller than what is necessary for a CQI. In such a case,
   multiplexing CQI could raise the resulting coding rate for the data above 1, since it is not sufficient
   to remove added redundancy, but systematic information has to be removed. This would result in an
10 automatic transmission failure for the data, since the receiver cannot reconstruct the whole data
   from the received information. Therefore, an MCS entry that offers more redundancy than another
   MCS entry is preferably replaced to be used for a CQI-only transmission. Consequently, in relation
   to Table 6 the "lower" MCS entries 9 or 16 can be advantageously replaced and used for the
   transmission of a CQI report without multiplexed data.
15 Furthermore, the embodiment described with respect to Table 8 can be applied and used in
   combination with the embodiment described with respect to Table 9.
   In general, any MCS index value may be used in combination with a CQI trigger to signal the CQI
   only reporting mode. As another example, it may be beneficial to replace an MCS entry associated
   with a very small spectral efficiency, such as MCS Index 0 in Table 6, in conjunction with a set CQI
20 trigger signal to trigger a CQI-only report. In such a case, since a very small spectral efficiency is
   replaced, the loss for the system in terms of how much data is not transmitted, since there is no data
   to be multiplexed with the CQI, is negligible.
   Another alternative embodiment of the invention will now be presented in the following by
   referring to Table 10, which, instead of using the predetermined RV parameter, and preferentially
25 the RV1 entry, proposes to select a predetermined transport format that is associated with a high
   code rate.
                                                     26

         MCS Index                  modulation                codingrate   v 1024     efficiency
              0                           2                            120              0.2344
              1                           2                            157              0.3057
              2                           2                            193               0.377
              3                           2                            251              0.4893
              4                           2                            308              0.6016
              5                           2                            379              0.7393
              6                           2                            449               0.877
              7                           2                            526              1.0264
              8                           2                            602              1.1758
              9                           2                            679              1.3262
             10                           4                            340              1.3262
             11                           4                            378              1.4766
             12                           4                            434             1.69535
             13                           4                            490              1.9141
             14                           4                            553              2.1602
             15                           4                            616              2.4063
             16                           4                            658              2.5684
             17                           6                            438              2.5684
             18                           6                            466              2.7305
             19                           6                            517              3.0264
             20                           6                            567              3.3223
             21                           6                            616              3.6123
             22                           6                            666              3.9023
             23                           6                            719             4.21285
             24                           6                            772              4.5234
             25                           6                            822              4.8193
             26                           6                            873              5.1152
             27                           6                            910             5.33495
           28 (DL)                        6                            948              5.5547
       28 (UL without                     6                            948              5.5547
         CQI trigger)
         28 (UL with                        CQI-only transmission (=no data)
         CQI trigger)
             29            DL:  Implicit TBS signaling with QPSK
                           UL:  Transmission using RV1
             30            DL:  Implicit TBS signaling with 16QAM
                           UL:  Transmission using RV2
             31            DL:  Implicit TBS signaling with 64QAM
                           UL:  Transmission using RV3
   Table 10
   Instead of using the predetermined RV parameter, and preferentially the RVl entry, as described in
   the embodiment above, an MCS entry associated with a high code rate is used, according to the
 5 present embodiment, for reporting a CQI report only. As apparent from Table 10, the selected MCS
   entry 28 is associated with a code rate that is equal to or larger than a predetermined code rate.
   Indeed, multiplexed CQI costs Uplink data redundancy. Since an MCS entry that offers a high code
   rate provides very little redundancy, multiplexing a CQI report with data at such a high code rate is
   relatively expensive, as already mentioned herein before. Consequently, according to this
10 embodiment of the invention, an MCS entry associated with a high code rate such as the MCS entry
   28 in Table 6 can be advantageously replaced and used for transmitting a CQI report only without
   multiplexing with data.
                                                      27

   Furthermore, the embodiment described with respect to Table 8 can be applied and used in
   combination with the embodiment described with respect to Table 10.
   In accordance with the present invention, also another parameter can be additionally set to signal the
   desired CQI reporting mode, preferentially the signalling of an independent CQI report. Examples
 5 of other possible parameters could be, among others, an antenna parameter (MIMO), a HARQ
   process number, a Constellation Number of a Modulation or another parameter.
   In another embodiment, a CQI-only report may be signalled by using multiple signals, e.g. in time
   or frequency domain. For example, setting the CQI trigger in two consecutive sub-frames could
   trigger a CQI-only report. As another example, assigning an MCS entry assigned with a low
10 spectral efficiency to a terminal in consecutive sub-frames can be used to trigger a CQI-only report.
   In another embodiment, the MCS entry replaced to trigger a CQI-only report in conjunction with a
   set CQI trigger signal is selected depending on different terminal capability classes. Generally, a
   communication system supports different classes of terminal capabilities. For example, some
   terminals may not support the transmission of 64-QAM in the uplink. Consequently, for such
15 terminals any MCS associated with a modulation scheme of 64-QAM is usually meaningless.
   Therefore, for such terminals a set CQI trigger signal in conjunction with an MCS entry which is
   not within the scope of the terminal's capability can be used to trigger a CQI-only report. Terminals
   that support the full scope are preferably employing any of the other embodiments described herein.
   In the previous embodiments, the term "predetermined" is used to describe e.g. a value with a
20 special meaning that is known to both sides of a communication link. This can be a fixed value in a
   specification, or a value that is negotiated between both ends e.g. by other control signalling.
   In the following, the amendments to the Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest (HARQ) operation
   induced by the definition of the control channel signalling according to the invention will be
   presented.
25 Since the triggering of a CQI-only report prevents the PUSCH from being used for data
   transmission in the usual way, the HARQ operation is influenced as well. First, the principles
   governing HARQ operation in uplink will be summarized. Then, an amended HARQ protocol
   operation according to the invention will be described.
   A Physical HARQ Indicator CHannel (PHICH) carrying ACK/NACK messages for an Uplink data
30 transmission may be transmitted at the same time as a Physical Downlink Command CHannel
                                                      28

   PDCCH for the same terminal. With such simultaneous transmission, the terminal follows what the
   PDCCH asks the terminal to do, i.e. performs a transmission or a retransmission (referred to as
   adaptive retransmission), regardless of the PHICH content. When no PDCCH for the terminal is
   detected, the PHICH content dictates the HARQ behaviour of the terminal, which is summarized in
 5 the following.
   NACK: the terminal performs a non-adaptive retransmission, i.e. a retransmission on the same
   uplink resource as previously used by the same process
   ACK: the terminal does not perform any Uplink (re)transmission and keeps the data in the HARQ
   buffer for that HARQ process. A further transmission for that HARQ process needs to be explicitly
10 scheduled by a subsequent grant by PDCCH. Until the reception of such grant, the terminal is in a
   "Suspension state".
   This is illustrated in the following Table 11:
              HARQ feedback             PDCCH
               seen by the UE       seen by the UE   UE behaviour
                  (PHICH)
                ACK or NACK        New Transmission  New transmission according to PDCCH
                ACK orNACK          Retransmission   Retransmition according to PDCCH
                                                     (adaptive retransmission)
                                                     No (re)transmission, keep data in HARQ
                    ACK                  None        buffer and a PDDCH is required to resume
                                                     retransmissions
                   NACK                  None        Non-adaptive retransmission
   Table 11
15 The Uplink HARQ protocol behaviour corresponding to the reception of a PDCCH requesting a
   ,,CQI-Only" amended according to the invention will now be described.
   Upon reception of a control channel signal requesting the transmission of an independent CQI
   report, the terminal considers the received CQI-only carrying PDCCH as an ACK and goes into
   "suspension state". The terminal does not perform any Uplink (re)transmission from the MAC point
20 of view and keeps the data in the HARQ buffer, if any data is pending for retransmission. A
   PDCCH at the next occurrence of the HARQ process is then required to perform a retransmission or
   initial transmission, i.e. a non-adaptive retransmission cannot follow. In this way, the behaviour of a
   CQI-only on the PDCCH is treated by the UE in the same way as an ACK on the PHICH without a
   PDCCH.
                                                       29

   The amended HARQ protocol operation at the terminal is summarized in the following Table 12:
              HARQ feedback           PDCCH
              seen by the UE      seen by the UE   UE behaviour
                 (PHICH)
               ACK or NACK       New Transmission  New transmission according to PDCCH
               ACK or NACK        Retransmission   Retransmition according to PDCCH
                                                   (adaptive retransmission)
                                                   No (re)transmission, keep data in HARQ
                   ACK                 None        buffer and a PDDCH is required to resume
                                                   retransmissions
                  NACK                 None        Non-adaptive retransmission
   Table 12
   Next, the operation of the transmitter of the control channel signal according to one of the various
 5 embodiments described herein and the receiver thereof will be described in further detail, thereby
   exemplarily relating to the case of downlink data transmission. For exemplary purposes a mobile
   network as exemplified in Fig. 5 may be assumed. The mobile communication system of Fig. 5 is
   considered to have a "two node architecture" consisting of at least one Access and Core Gateway
   (ACGW) and Node Bs. The ACGW may handle core network functions, such as routing calls and
10 data connections to external networks, and it may also implement some RAN (Radio Access
   Network) functions. Thus, the ACGW may be considered as to combine functions performed by
   GGSN (Gateway GPRS Support Node) and SGSN (Serving GPRS Support Node) in today's 3G
   networks and RAN functions as for example radio resource control (RRC), header compression,
   ciphering/integrity protection.
15 The base stations (also referred to as Node Bs or enhanced Node Bs            =   eNode Bs) may handle
   functions as for example segmentation/concatenation, scheduling and allocation of resources,
   multiplexing and physical layer functions, but also RRC functions, such as outer ARQ. For
   exemplary purposes only, the eNodeBs are illustrated to control only one radio cell. Obviously,
   using beam-forming antennae and/or other techniques the eNodeBs may also control several radio
20 cells or logical radio cells.
   In this exemplary network architecture, a shared data channel may be used for communication of
   user data (in form or protocol data units) on uplink and/or downlink on the air interface between
   mobile stations (UEs) and base stations (eNodeBs). This shared channel may be for example a
   Physical Uplink or Downlink Shared CHannel (PUSCH or PDSCH) as know in LTE systems.
25 However, it is also possible that the shared data channel and the associated control channels are
   mapped to the physical layer resources as shown in Fig. 2 or Fig. 3.
                                                     30

   The control channel signals/information may be transmitted on separate (physical) control channels
   that are mapped into the same subframe to which the associated user data (protocol data units) are
   mapped or may be alternatively sent in a subframe preceding the one containing the associated
   information. In one example, the mobile communication system is a 3GPP LTE system, and the
 5 control channel signal is L1/L2 control channel information (e.g. information on the Physical
   Downlink Control CHannel - PDCCH). Respective L1/L2 control channel information for the
   different users (or groups of users) may be mapped into a specific part of the shared uplink or
   downlink channel, as exemplarily shown in Fig. 2 and 3, where the control channel information of
   the different users is mapped to the first part of a downlink subframe ("control").
10 Another embodiment of the invention relates to the implementation of the above described various
   embodiments using hardware and software. It is recognized that the various embodiments of the
   invention may be implemented or performed using computing devices (processors). A computing
   device or processor may for example be general purpose processors, digital signal processors
   (DSP), application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) or
15 other programmable logic devices, etc. The various embodiments of the invention may also be
   performed or embodied by a combination of these devices.
   Further, the various embodiments of the invention may also be implemented by means of software
   modules, which are executed by a processor or directly in hardware. Also a combination of software
   modules and a hardware implementation may be possible. The software modules may be stored on
20 any kind of computer readable storage media, for example RAM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash
   memory, registers, hard disks, CD-ROM, DVD, etc.
   Furthermore, it should be noted that the terms terminal, mobile terminal, MS and mobile station are
   used as synonyms herein. A user equipment (UE) may be considered one example for a mobile
   station and refers to a mobile terminal for use in 3GPP-based networks, such as LTE. Moreover, the
25 terminal is not limited to a mobile station, it can be, e.g., a PC card or a fixed access point of another
   system.
   In the previous paragraphs various embodiments of the invention and variations thereof have been
   described. It would be appreciated by a person skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the present invention as shown in the specific embodiments without
30 departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described.
                                                        31

   It should be further noted that most of the embodiments have been outlined in relation to a 3GPP
   based communication system and the terminology used in the previous sections mainly relates to
   the 3GPP terminology. However, the terminology and the description of the various embodiments
   with respect to 3GPP-based architectures is not intended to limit the principles and ideas of the
 5 inventions to such systems.
   Also the detailed explanations given in the Technical Background section above are intended to
   better understand the mostly 3GPP specific exemplary embodiments described herein and should
   not be understood as limiting the invention to the described specific implementations of processes
   and functions in the mobile communication network. Nevertheless, the improvements proposed
10 herein may be readily applied in the architectures described in the Technical Background section.
   Furthermore, the concept of the invention may be also readily used in the LTE RAN currently
   discussed by the 3GPP.
                                                    32

   CLAIMS
   1.      A communication apparatus, comprising:
           a receiver, which, in operation, receives a control signal, the control signal including a
   Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) Index, a channel quality indicator (CQI) trigger and
 5 information indicating uplink resource blocks; and
           a transmitter, which, in operation,
                   determines whether to multiplex an aperiodic CQI report with data in an uplink
              signal based on the MCS Index, the channel quality indicator trigger, the information
              indicating uplink resource blocks, and a threshold number of resource blocks, wherein
10            the threshold number is larger than a minimum number of resource blocks; and
                   transmits the uplink signal.
   2.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS
   Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is smaller than or equal to the threshold number of resource
15 blocks, the transmitter, in operation, does not multiplex the aperiodic CQI Report with the data.
   3.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS
   Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is larger than the threshold number of resource blocks, the
   transmitter, in operation, multiplexes the aperiodic CQI Report with the data.
20 4.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein when the CQI trigger is not set and the
   MCS Index is a determined value, the transmitter, in operation, does not multiplex the aperiodic
   CQI Report with the data.
   5.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein when the CQI trigger is set and the
   MCS Index is not a determined value, the transmitter, in operation, multiplexes the aperiodic
25 CQI Report with the data, and transmits the uplink signal using a redundancy version other than
   redundancy version 1.
   6.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein when the CQI trigger is not set and the
   MCS Index is not a determined value, the transmitter, in operation, does not multiplex the
   aperiodic CQI Report with the data, and transmits the uplink signal using a redundancy version
30 other than redundancy version 1.
                                                    33

   7.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transmitter, in operation,
           does not multiplex the aperiodic CQI Report with the data when the CQI trigger is set, the
   MCS Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is smaller than or equal to the threshold number of resource
 5 blocks;
           multiplexes the aperiodic CQI Report with the data when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS
   Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is larger than the threshold number of resource blocks; and
           does not multiplex the aperiodic CQI Report with the data when the CQI trigger is not set
10 and the MCS Index is a determined value.
   8.      The communication apparatus of claim 7 the determined value is 29.
   9.      The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transmitter, in operation, transmits
   the aperiodic CQI Report on a Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH) based on one of a
   plurality of reporting modes.
15 10.     The communication apparatus of claim 7 wherein an MCS Index having the determined
   value indicates a redundancy version of 1.
   11.     An integrated circuit, comprising:
           receiving circuitry, which, in operation, receives a control signal, the control signal
   including a Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) Index, a channel quality indicator (CQI)
20 trigger and information indicating uplink resource blocks; and
           transmission circuitry, which, in operation, determines whether to multiplex an aperiodic
   CQI report with data in an uplink signal based on the MCS Index, the channel quality indicator
   trigger, the information indicating uplink resource blocks, and a threshold number of resource
   blocks, wherein the threshold number is larger than a minimum number of resource blocks.
25 12.     The integrated circuit of claim 11 wherein when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS Index is
   a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information indicating
   uplink resource blocks is smaller than or equal to the threshold number of resource blocks, the
   transmission circuitry, in operation, does not multiplex the aperiodic CQI Report with the data.
                                                    34

   13.     The integrated circuit of claim 11 wherein when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS Index is
   a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information indicating
   uplink resource blocks is larger than the threshold number of resource blocks, the transmission
   circuitry, in operation, multiplexes the aperiodic CQI Report with the data.
 5 14.     The integrated circuit of claim 11 wherein when the CQI trigger is not set and the MCS
   Index is a determined value, the transmission circuitry, in operation, does not multiplex the
   aperiodic CQI Report with the data.
   15.     The integrated circuit of claim 11 wherein when the CQI trigger is set and the MCS Index
   is not a determined value, the transmission circuitry, in operation, multiplexes the aperiodic CQI
10 Report with the data, and transmits the uplink signal using a redundancy version other than
   redundancy version 1.
   16.     The integrated circuit of claim 11 wherein when the CQI trigger is not set and the MCS
   Index is not a determined value, the transmission circuitry, in operation, does not multiplex the
   aperiodic CQI Report with the data, and transmits the uplink signal using a redundancy version
15 other than redundancy version 1.
   17.     The integrated circuit of claim 11 wherein the transmission circuitry, in operation,
           does not multiplex the aperiodic CQI Report with the data when the CQI trigger is set, the
   MCS Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is smaller than or equal to the threshold number of resource
20 blocks;
           multiplexes the aperiodic CQI Report with the data when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS
   Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is larger than the threshold number of resource blocks; and
           does not multiplex the aperiodic CQI Report with the data when the CQI trigger is not set
25 and the MCS Index is a determined value.
   18.     A method, comprising:
           receiving a control signal, the control signal including a Modulation and Coding Scheme
   (MCS) Index, a channel quality indicator (CQI) trigger and information indicating uplink
   resource blocks;
30         determining whether to multiplex an aperiodic CQI report with data in an uplink signal
   based on the MCS Index, the CQI trigger, the information indicating uplink resource blocks, and
                                                     35

   a threshold number of resource blocks, wherein the threshold number is larger than a minimum
   number of resource blocks; and transmitting the uplink signal.
   19.     The method of claim 18 wherein when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS Index is a
   determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information indicating
 5 uplink resource blocks is smaller than or equal to the threshold number of resource blocks, the
   aperiodic CQI Report is not multiplexed with the data.
   20.     The method of claim 18 wherein when the CQI trigger is set, the MCS Index is a
   determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information indicating
   uplink resource blocks is larger than the threshold number of resource blocks, the aperiodic CQI
10 Report is multiplexed with the data.
   21.     The method of claim 18 wherein when the CQI trigger is not set and the MCS Index is a
   determined value, the aperiodic CQI Report is not multiplexed with the data.
   22.     The method of claim 18 wherein when the CQI trigger is set and the MCS Index is not a
   determined value, the aperiodic CQI Report is multiplexed with the data, and the uplink signal is
15 transmitted using a redundancy version other than redundancy version 1.
   23.     The method of claim 18 wherein when the CQI trigger is not set and the MCS Index is
   not a determined value, the aperiodic CQI Report is not multiplexed with the data, and the uplink
   signal is transmitted using a redundancy version other than redundancy version 1.
   24.     The method of claim 18 wherein,
20         the aperiodic CQI Report is not multiplexed with the data when the CQI trigger is set, the
   MCS Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is smaller than or equal to the threshold number of resource
   blocks;
           the aperiodic CQI Report is multiplexed with the data when the CQI trigger is set, the
25 MCS Index is a determined value, and a number of resource blocks indicated by the information
   indicating uplink resource blocks is larger than the threshold number of resource blocks; and
           the aperiodic CQI Report is not multiplexed with the data when the CQI trigger is not set
   and the MCS Index is a determined value.
   25.     The communication apparatus of claim 1 wherein the minimum number of resource
30 blocks is 10.
                                                    36

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
