                                              ABSTRACT
           There are herein described energy storage systems.     More particularly there are provided
   thermal energy storage systems comprising battery assemblies containing phase change materials
   and a monitoring system therefor. In addition there are provided thermal stores comprising battery
 5 assemblies having integral control means for management of the thermal energy provided by the
   battery assembly.
.0
.5
                                                   25

                                                    1
        HEAT BATTERY ASSEMBLIES AND MONITORING SYSTEM THEREFOR
Related cases
         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014272836, filed on 2 June 2014, the contents of which are hereby incorporated in their
entirety.
Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to energy storage systems. More particularly the invention
relates to thermal energy storage systems comprising battery assemblies containing phase
change materials and a monitoring system therefor. More particularly, the present invention
relates to thermal stores comprising battery assemblies having integral control means for
management of thermal energy provided by the battery assembly.
Background of the Invention
         There are many heating and cooling systems on the market and many of these rely on
fossil fuels. With the ever increasing demand for more environmentally friendly systems
various alternative systems based on sunlight or water have been proposed such as for example,
photovoltaic, solar thermal electricity generators, hydroelectricity, wave power and bio-fuels.
         All issues common to all solar-driven renewable energy conversion devices, some hydro
driven devices, and wind turbines is that they cannot operate "on demand" as the sun does not
always shine, the seas are not always high and the wind does not always blow. This means that
at some times these so-called intermittent renewable source will generate electricity which
cannot be easily integrated into their corresponding local electricity grids, and as such there have
been a number of storage solutions proposed.
         The thermal energy storage system, proposed in WO 2009/138771 converts surplus
electrical energy from intermittent renewable sources into heat or cool when available, store the
so-converted heat or cool in a thermal store, and then make it available as useful heat or cool on
demand using phase change materials (PCMs) to effect the energy conversion via their inherent
solid-liquid phase changing properties.
1 A COA707 1

                                                    2
         In known thermal energy storage systems, comprising heat batteries containing phase
change materials, the phase changing material within each battery, will during its most active
energy storage and release phase, change from solid to liquid and vice versa over about a
6 0Cemperature range. To date, it has only been possible to predict the charge state of any such
battery by using a large number of temperature sensors inside the batteries, which is neither
practical nor cost effective.
         For practical application, in high-demand, commercial or industrial situations in particular,
thermal energy storage systems including phase change materials which have
determinable efficiency measures would be highly desirable to enable effective predictions of
energy reserves for planning and energy management purposes.
Summary of the Invention
         It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially satisfy one or more of the
above needs.
           According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a thermal storage
system having integral means for providing residual energy measures.
           According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a thermal storage
system having integral means for efficient charging of batteries within an assembly.
           According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a thermal storage
system having integral means for predicting the charge state of batteries within an assembly.
           According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a thermal storage
system having integral means for determination of relative energy levels within batteries within
an assembly.
           According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a thermal storage
system having integral means for protection of batteries within an assembly against over
pressurisation.
1 ACOCA707 1

                                                  3
           According to a further aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a novel and
inventive thermal storage system comprising heat batteries having internal heat exchangers and
PCMs wherein said system includes integral means for providing a variety of control measures
including: overall system energy efficiency measures; measures of battery charging efficiency;
determination of relative energy levels within batteries; and wherein said system provides
protection of said batteries against over pressurisation.
           The Applicant has developed novel and inventive thermal storage system comprising
heat batteries having internal heat exchangers and PCMs.
           According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a thermal storage
system comprising a thermal energy store containing a single or a plurality of battery casings
having internal heat exchangers and phase change materials and means for controlling the
operation of said thermal energy store, wherein each of said battery casing independently
contains a battery comprising one or more heat exchangers anchored within said casing, a phase
change material and means for protection against over pressurisation of said battery, and
wherein said controlling means is provided by a one or a plurality of sensors for the
measurement of temperature, and/or pressure, and/or power at one or multiple points within the
system.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the controlling means may be an integral
system controller.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the controlling means may be adapted to
provide measurements of the charging and discharging circuit flow rates of said system via one
or more power sensors.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the controlling means may be adapted to
provide means for efficient charging of the individual batteries within the assembly via one or
more input temperature sensors and one or more diverter valves.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the controlling means may be adapted to
provide measurements of the energy stored within, and the power input of individual batteries
within said system, and of the overall battery assembly via said one or more input temperature
sensors.
1 ACOCA707 1

                                                  4
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the controlling means may be adapted to
provide measurements of the energy delivered by each battery within the assembly and the
residual energy in each of said batteries during discharging via one or more output temperature
sensors.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the phase change materials within the system
may be protected from contact with external contaminants or degrading components via the
provision of sealed battery casings.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the battery casings may be constructed from
metals, alloys, plastics, composite sandwiches or composite materials.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the battery casings may withstand an internal
pressure of from 0.0 bar to 4.0 bar.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, Multiple battery casings may be stacked
           without intermediate supports.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, Heat exchangers may be integrated with
loading and unloading heat exchangers which are anchored within the batteries and wherein the
contact area between each heat exchanger and each battery casing is minimal.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the battery housing may include means for
protection against over pressurisation via one or more pressure relief valves, or one or more
pressure rupture discs.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the phase change materials may be utilised
within the batteries to have a solid to liquid phase change within a temperature range of from
00 C to 100'C and wherein the operative range of said phase change materials is between a 4 and
8 degree difference in temperature.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the system may comprise means for phase
change material expansion management wherein said means is in operative connection with a
vapour barrier, and either a pressure relief valve, or a burst disc assembly.
1 A COA707 1

                                                   4a
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the system may comprise means for phase
change material expansion management provided by external or internal volume compensation
features, or by pressurised case design features, in relation to each individual battery within said
assembly and wherein said means is in operative connection with a vapour barrier, and either a
pressure relief valve, or a burst disc assembly.
           According to an aspect of the disclosure, the system may additionally comprising means
for determining the energy inputs and outputs of, and the balance within, any individual battery
(8) within the system via a series of sensors for the determination of QIN, QON and QN wherein
           QIN    =  [Y ( F1 x pi x Cp1) x (T5 - T4 )] / 3600; and
           QON    =  [IX(Fo x po xCpo) x (Tlo-T9)]/3600; and
           QN     = QN-1   + QIN - QON;  and
           wherein
           QIN    = Energy input to the battery during the last charge cycle;
           QON    = Energy output from the battery during the last discharge cycle;
           QN     = Current stored energy in the battery;
           QN-1   = Energy stored in the battery before current audit;
           F1     = Charging circuit flow rate;
           Fo     = Discharging circuit flow rate;
           p1     = Density of charging circuit fluid;
           po     = Density of discharging circuit fluid;
           Cp1    = Specific heat of charging circuit fluid;
           Cpo    = Specific heat of discharging circuit fluid;
           TCFT   = Battery X charging circuit flow temperature;
           TCRT   = Battery X charging circuit return temperature;
           TDFT   = Battery X discharging circuit flow temperature; and
           TDRT   = Battery X discharging circuit return temperature.
           The control system may be adapted to provide means for the determination of the status
of the batteries within the system via the following series of algorithms:
      a) If QIN = I and 6P < PLI OR QIN    = 1 and PBC <  PA, then:
1 A COA707 1

                                                         4b
           -    Battery case is not air tight
           -    Activate appropriate alarm/warning
           -    Put this battery in standby mode i.e. stop charging
      b) If (QIN    = 1 and 6P >   PL2) OR QIN   =  1 and PBC > PL3, then:
           -    Battery case pressure is exceeding the maximum operating limit
           -    Activate appropriate alarm/warning
           -    Put this battery in standby mode i.e. stop charging
      c) If (QIN    = 0 and TBC  <  TE), then:
           -    Put this battery in charging mode Q=1 i.e. start charging
           -    SOC=0
      d) If (QIN    = 1 and 6T > TL2) OR QIN      = 1 and TBC   TL3, then:
           -    Battery case temperature is exceeding the maximum operating limit
           -    Activate appropriate alarm/warning
           -    Put this battery in standby mode i.e. stop charging
      e) If PABI < ABS(6P)       < PAB2   OR   PA < PBC < PB   OR TE   <TBC     TF OR TEFi < ABS(6T) <
           TEF2,  then the battery is operating in zone AB (See Figure 6(a)) corresponding to zone
           EF
             SOC = 1 00-mpc-Cp-Ts / ETOT
      f)   If PBC1 < ABS(6P) < PBC2 OR PB < PBC < Pc OR TF               TBC < TG  OR TFG1 5 ABS(6T) <
           TFG2,  then the battery is operating in zone BC corresponding to zone FG
                 SOC   = 100-( ESL +  FBC'CBC'PB)    / ETOT
      g)    If PCD1 < ABS(6P)     < PCD2  OR Pc    < PBC < PD  OR  TG  < TBC < TH OR TGH1 < ABS(6T) <
           TGH2,   then the battery is operating in zone CD (See Figure 6(a)) corresponding to zone
           GH
 SOC     =  100-( ESL+   EL + mPCM'CpL'6TL)      / ETOT
1 A COA707 1

TABLE 2
  Symbol Definition                                                 Measurement
  QIN    Battery charging state                                     1 = Active, =
                                                                    Standby
  6P     Rate of pressure change                                    Pa/s
  PL     Minimum rate of pressure change limit                      Pa/s
  PBC    Battery case pressure                                      Pa
  PA     Base reference pressure                                    Pa
  PL2    Maximum rate of pressure change limit                      Pa/s
  PL3    Maximum battery case working pressure                      Pa
  TBC    Battery case temperature                                   K
  TE     Base reference temperature                                 K
  SOC    State fo charge of the battery
  6T     Rate of temperature change                                 K/s
  TL2    Maximum rate of temperature change limit                   K/s
  TL3    Maximum battery case working temperature                   K/s
  PAB1   Rate of pressure change in zone AB - Lower limit           Pa/s
  PAB2   Rate of pressure change in zone AB - Upper limit           Pa/s
  PA     Battery pressure at operating point A in Figure 6(a)       Pa
  PB     Battery pressure at operating point B in Figure 6(a)       Pa
  TF     Battery temperature at operating point F in Figure 6(b)    K
  TEF1   Rate of temperature change in zone EF - Lower limit        K/s
  TEF2   Rate of temperature change in zone EF - Upper limit        K/s
  6T,    Temperature difference between battery temperature TBC and K
         minimum reference temperature    TE
  PBC1   Rate of pressure change in zone BC - Lower limit           Pa/s
  PBC2   Rate of pressure change in zone BC - Upper limit           Pa/s
  PC     Battery pressure at operating point C in Figure 6(a)
  TG     Battery temperature at operating point G in Figure 6(b)    K
  TFG1   Rate of temperature change in zone FG - Lower limit        K/s
  TFG2   Rate of temperature change in zone FG - Upper limit        K/s
  FBC    Scaling factor for - Zone BC
  CBC    Correction factor (Power & PCM)
  PCD1   Rate of pressure change in zone CD - Lower limit           Pa/s
  PCD2   Rate of pressure change in zone CD - Upper limit           Pa/s
  PC     Battery pressure at operating point C in Figure 6(a)       Pa
  PD     Battery pressure at operating point D in Figure 6(a)       Pa
  TG     Battery temperature at operating point G in Figure 6(b)    K
  TH     Battery temperature at operating point H in Figure 6(b)    K
                                                  5

    TGH1       Rate of temperature change in zone GH - Lower limit                         K/s
    TGH2       Rate of temperature change in zone GH - Upper limit                         K/s
    5TL        Temperature difference between battery temperature TBC and upper            K
               temperature of the melting zone     TG
    Description of Figures
             Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
  5 reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
             Figure 1(a) is a side view of a single battery case and internal assembly thereof for use in a
    thermal storage system as detailed herein. Despite the image showing a rectangular section, the
    present invention is not limited to this and includes batteries of different shape, e.g. cylindrical,
    triangular, and more. Furthermore,          a single heat exchanger can       be designed in order to
 .0 accommodate a horizontal thermal insulating layer between different parts of the heat exchanger, to
    avoid thermal dissipation between parts of the heat exchanger at different temperature. This can be a
    composite sheet or an insulating foil;
             Figure 1(b) is an underside view of the single battery case and internal assembly of Figure
    1(a). Despite the image showing a rectangular section, the present invention is not limited to this and
 .5 includes battery of different shape, e.g. cylindrical, triangular, and more. Furthermore, a single heat
    exchanger can be designed in order to accommodate a vertical thermal insulating layer between
    different parts of the heat exchanger, to avoid thermal dissipation between parts of the heat
    exchanger at different temperature. This can be a composite sheet or an insulating foil or insulating
    foam;
 .0          Figure 2 is a schematic view of a thermal storage system according to an embodiment of the
    present invention. Despite the image showing heat exchangers with vertical and straight fins, the
    present invention is not limited to this and includes battery(s) with different inclination, e.g. horizontal
    or oblique, and not straight, e.g. corrugated. Despite the image showing two separate circuits for
    loading and discharging the battery, the invention also includes heat batteries with one single
25  hydraulic circuit that, alternatively, is used to charge and discharge the heat battery, or with more than
    two hydraulic circuits. Despite Figure 2 showing four modules, this invention applies to all system(s)
    with one or more modules;
             Figure 3(a) is a schematic view of the volume compensation unit (9) as indicated in Figure 2;
             Figure 3(b) is an expanded view of the pressure release valve aspect of unit (8) as indicated
30  in Figure 5;
             Figure 4 is a schematic view of the integrated volume compensation unit;
             Figure 5 is a schematic view of a thermal storage system according to an alternative
    embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 6(a) is an illustration of the relationship between internal battery pressure and battery
35  state of charge; and.
                                                           6

              Figure 6(b) is an illustration of the relationship between internal battery temperature and
    battery state of charge;
    Detailed Description
  5          The novel thermal energy storage systems according to the present invention are assembled
    from a plurality of heat batteries each containing integrated loading and unloading heat exchanger(s)
    and phase change material(s), PCM(s). An illustration of a heat battery according to the invention is
    provided at Figure 1. Despite the image showing a cuboid shape, the present invention is not limited
    to this and includes battery of different shape, e.g. cylindrical, spherical, pyramidal, and more.
 .0 Furthermore, despite the image showing only one PCM in the enclosure, this invention includes also
    the combination of different PCMs in the same enclosure and the combination of PCMs and other
    materials, e.g. oils, waxes, and more;
              Each heat battery can be connected to the hydraulic pipe entering or leaving each port
    through various means that ensure a waterproof connection, e.g. tank connector, soldering, brazing,
 .5 crimping;
             The thermal energy storage systems according to the present invention include an integral
    system controller wherein the particular control functions of said controller can be adapted according
    to the particular application / utility of the system. The controller utilises power sensors (as indicated
    by F1 and F2 in Figures 2 and 5) for the measurement of the charging and discharging circuit flow
 .0 rates of the system respectively, said power sensors may each be comprised of a combination of flow
    sensor, temperature sensors and computation engine to derive thermal power. The controller also
    utilises input temperature sensors (as indicated by T1 to T5 in Figures 2 and 5) and diverter valves
    (as indicated by DV1 to DV5 in Figures 2 and 5) to control efficient charging of the individual batteries
    within the assembly, using pre-defined rules, as detailed hereinafter, which depend upon the
 .5 application and the type of PCM in the batteries.         These temperature sensors are also used for
    calculating the energy stored and the power input, of both individual batteries within the assembly, as
    well as of the overall battery assembly.
             The system controller also uses output temperature sensors (as indicated by T6 to T10 in
    Figures 2 and 4) to determine the energy delivered by each battery within the assembly and the
30  residual energy in each of said batteries during discharging.       In addition the system controller may
    also determines the charge status of the batteries from the pressures measured by pressure sensors
    (as indicated by PS1 to PS4 in Figures 2 and 5).           The function of these pressure sensors are
    described in more detail hereinafter. The controller may also uses global temperature sensors to
    determine the average temperature of the PCM inside the enclosure (as indicated by TG1 to TG4 in
35  Figures 2 and 5).
             A particular feature of the thermal energy storage systems according to the present invention
    is the protection of the PCM within the battery assembly from the ingress of oxygen and water vapour,
    and the like by sealing to prevent external contaminants / degrading components such as fresh air or
    water vapour from contacting the PCM(s), or the loss of PCM components for example by
40  dehydration.    This is accomplished via the provision of sealed batteries, more particularly sealed
                                                           7

    battery casings, or by the addition of a substance on top of the PCM(s) acting as a barrier against
    vapour or air or contaminants exchange, e.g. oil. Thus according to a further aspect the present
    invention provides thermal energy storage systems according to any of the previously provided
    aspects wherein the one or more batteries are sealed or an additional substance is added on top of
  5 the PCM(s) acting as a vapour / air / contaminants barrier.
              Suitable materials for construction of battery casings, sometimes called battery housings, for
    use in the battery assemblies within the thermal storage systems according to the present invention
    are selected on their dual ability to both shield the PCM from ingress/egress of water vapour and
    ingress of oxygen in order to minimise the deterioration of the thermal performance of the battery, and
 .0 also to provide sufficient structural support / strength to support one or more batteries in a stacked
    system without the need for intermediate structural supporting means. In case an additional
    substance is used as a barriers against water vapour, oxygen, and further contaminants, the casings
    must only provide structural support / strength to support one or more batteries in a stacked system.
              Suitable casing materials for use herein include metals and alloys, coated metals and alloys,
 .5 plastics, composite sandwiches of materials and composite materials.              Composite sandwiches as
    defined herein mean a casing having an additional insulating layer, either adjacent to a casing layer or
    intermediate      between    two    casing    layers.       Exemplar     composite     sandwiches    include:
    metal/insulation/metal;       plastic/insulation/plastic;     plastic/insulation/metal;     metal/insulation;
    plastic/insulation. Composite materials as defined herein include a casing composed by plastic with a
 .0 metal reinforcement. Exemplar composite materials include plastic with metal mesh enclosed in the
    plastic layer. Thus according to a further aspect the present invention provides thermal energy
    storage systems according to any of the previously provided aspects wherein the battery casing is a
    metal, metal alloy, plastic or composite sandwich.
              Thus the selection of a particular metal, coated metal, plastic, sandwich or composite material
 .5 will be determined by a variety of factors including: the strength to support one or more batteries
    thereupon in a stacked system, the permeability to air and vapour, the particular PCM to be used
    (including its density, its melting temperature and its chemical attack properties with respect to the
    composite material), the thermal insulation properties, the proposed utility and/or operating conditions
    of the thermal storage system and such like.          Suitable metals and alloys include: Copper, Brass,
30  Aluminium, and stainless steel with the selection of a preferred metal for a specific utility depending
    upon the type of PCM and operating conditions.            For example preferred metals for use in battery
    casings for use with calcium chloride hexahydrate include copper and brass, while for use with
    sodium acetate trihydrate aluminium, stainless steel, copper, or brass. For example preferred coated
    metals for use with calcium chloride hexahydrate include stainless steel with copper coating.
35            Plastics providing a suitable water vapour and oxygen barrier layer are suitable for use
    herein.     Suitable plastics for use include: polypropylene, expanded polypropylene, cross-linked
    polyethylene, polycarbonate, polyphenyl sulphide, ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH) copolymer, nylon. A
    filling agent such as glass fibre may be included in the plastic.
              Insulating materials suitable for use herein include: expanded polypropylene, silica aerogel,
40  vacuum insulation, expanded polyurethane.
                                                           8

             Exemplar composite sandwiches for use as battery casing materials herein include: nomex
    honeycomb encased in carbon fibre, aluminium honeycomb encased in carbon or aluminium,
    aluminium honeycomb encased in polypropylene, aluminium layer enclosed in polypropylene layer(s),
    and any combination of any abovementioned plastics and metals.
  5          Exemplar composite sandwiches for use as battery casing materials herein include: nylon
    layer reinforced with stainless steel net, polypropylene reinforced with aluminium bar, and any
    combination of the previous plastics and metals.
             The heat exchangers inside each battery casing are anchored so that they can expand and
    contract in all three planes, within said casing, without stressing the casing or the inter-connected
 .0 heat exchanger assembly as a whole. The heat exchanger supports are arranged so that the contact
    area between each heat exchanger and each battery casing is minimal (<600mm2 for 2.5kWh battery)
    in order to minimise conduction heat losses and thereby increase the heat efficiency of the overall
    system.
             The battery case is designed to withstand 2.0 times the normal working pressure of the
 .5 thermal energy storage system. Although the working pressure will depend upon the size, application
    and type of PCM, utilised in said system, it will typically range between O.Obar and 2.Obar. Thus
    according to a further aspect the present invention provides thermal energy storage systems
    according to any of the previously provided aspects wherein the battery casing can withstand an
    internal pressure of from O.Obar to 4.Ombar.
  0          The battery casing materials of sufficient strength are selected so that batteries can be
    stacked up to a plurality of batteries without intermediate supports, e.g. 6 batteries. Thus according to
    a further aspect the present invention provides thermal energy storage systems according to any of
    the previously provided aspects wherein the battery casing is a metal, metal alloy, coated metal,
    coated alloy, plastic, composite sandwich or composite material having sufficient strength for an
  5 individual battery to support a plurality of additional batteries in a multiple-stack battery system without
    intermediate supports.
             As illustrated hereinafter in Figures 2 and 5 the thermal energy storage systems according to
    the invention comprise a single or a plurality of battery assemblies as described hereinbefore which
    may be arranged in a stacked system, having in particular a stacked battery arrangement which may
30  be independently selected multiple stacked batteries. This also includes the capability to place the
    batteries side by side in a single layer arrangement, or in multiple layers with two or more batteries
    side by side on each layer, and not necessarily the same number of batteries side by side on each
    layer.
             A further advantageous feature of the thermal energy storage systems according to the
35  present invention is means for protection of the one or more battery casing(s) against over
    pressurisation.    As detailed hereinafter this is achieved by means of one or more pressure relief
    valve(s), or one or more pressure rupture disc(s), or via a combination thereof, or via an aperture with
    surroundings in the case where an additional substance on top of the PCM acts as a barrier against
    air, water vapour, and contaminants.         Thus according to a further aspect the present invention
                                                           9

    provides thermal energy storage systems according to any of the previously provided aspects
    additionally comprising means for protection of the battery casing(s) against over pressurisation.
             Commercial and industrial utilities of the energy storage systems herein will be dependent
    upon the melting point of the particular PCMs utilised. Typically, the thermal energy storage systems
  5 according to the present invention utilise PCMs having melting points ranging from 00C to 1000C,
    although this is not a limiting set and other exemplary melting points are 9000C or -80C.            The
    selection of the particular PCM(s) to be utilised in any particular thermal energy storage system
    herein, will be dependent upon the desired application. Suitable PCMs for use herein are detailed
    herein after.
 .0          The operative range of these systems is dependent upon transition temperature band for the
    particular PCMs utilised. Typically, the transition temperature band for most PCMs is between a 4
    and 8 degree difference in temperature (OC). Thus according to a further aspect the present invention
    provides thermal energy storage systems according to any of the previously provided aspects wherein
    the PCM(s) utilised have melting points ranging from 00C to 1000C, and/or wherein the operative
 .5 range of the PCM utilised is between a 4 and 8 degree difference in temperature. For the avoidance
    of doubt PCMs suitable for use herein are materials having a solid to liquid phase change or a solid to
    solid phase change, where in the latter the phase is intended as a change in the crystalline structure
    of the material.       For the avoidance of doubt PCMs suitable for use herein              may include
    thermochemical materials.
  0          The selection of any particular PCM for use in any particular thermal storage system for any
    particular utility will be dependent upon which materials provide the most appropriate balance
    between their inherent thermodynamic, kinetic, chemical and physical properties and economic
    factors. Thermodynamic properties relevant to such selection include: a melting temperature within
    the desired operating temperature range; high latent heat of fusion per unit volume; high specific heat,
 .5 high density and high thermal conductivity; small volume changes on phase transformation and small
    vapor pressure at operating temperatures to reduce the containment problem; congruent melting.
    Kinetic properties relevant to such selection include: high nucleation rate to avoid super-cooling of the
    liquid phase; high rate of crystal growth, so that the system can meet demands of heat recovery from
    the storage system.       Chemical properties relevant to such selection include: chemical stability;
30  complete reversible freeze/melt cycle; no degradation after a large number of freeze/melt cycles; non
    corrosiveness, non-toxic, non-flammable and non-explosive materials. Relevant economic properties
    are the relative cost of the PCM and commercial availability in sufficient volume.
             Suitable PCMs for use herein include: Calcium chloride/bromide hexahydrate eutectic,
    Calcium chloride/magnesium chloride hexahydrate, Calcium chloride hexahydrate, Calcium bromide
35  hexahydrate, Sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate, Sodium acetate trihydrate.
             Advantageously the thermal energy storage systems according to the present invention
    include means for PCM expansion management. As illustrated hereinafter in Figures 2, 3, 4 and 5,
    this is accomplished either by additional volume compensation features, or by pressurised case
    design features, in relation to each battery within the assembly. In thermal energy storage systems
40  herein including a volume compensated, i.e. atmospheric pressure operated design, PCM expansion
                                                         10

    is managed using a diaphragm expansion vessel or a diaphragm expansion volume in each battery in
    order to maintain the pressure inside the battery at atmospheric level because the other side of the
    diaphragm is open to the atmosphere. Alternatively, an aperture is present in the enclosure to allow
    pressure balancing between the internal volume of the heat battery and the surroundings.
  5          In thermal energy storage systems herein which incorporate batteries having volume
    compensated means for PCM expansion management, when the PCM volume changes (in any
    particular battery) with temperature, the air in the battery moves to and from the expansion vessel or
    the integrated expansion volume to maintain near constant atmospheric pressure in the battery casing
    or in the PCM volume.       Suitable expansion vessels include those having a diaphragm design. For
 .0 the avoidance of doubt, any alternative expansion vessel or integrated expansion volume design
    capable of equivalent operation to maintain near constant atmospheric pressure in the battery casing
    or in the PCM volume in line with PCM volume changes with temperature and subsequent air
    movement between the battery and said vessel or volume is considered suitable for use herein. An
    exemplar, diaphragm system is provided herein, and is illustrated in Figure 3(a).      In this system an
 .5 expansion pipe connects the battery to the expansion vessel. This expansion pipe may additionally
    incorporate a vapour barrier, and either a pressure relief valve, or a burst disc assembly to protect the
    system against high pressure.       Where a pressure relief valve is used the relief setting is typically
    between about 0.25ba and about 0.5bar.           The thermal energy storage systems herein utilise a
    standard central heating expansion vessel rated at 3.Obar wherein said vessel is sized according to
  0 the following equation:
                                        VEX = VPcm x (Epcm /     100) x Fs
    Wherein
    VEX      = Nominal capacity of expansion vessel,            [LI
    VPcm     = Volume of PCM in the battery,           [LI
 .5 EPcm     = Expansion factor of PCM (8 - 12%)       [%]
    Fs       = Safety factor (= 1.50)
             Figure 3(a) illustrates the operation of a diaphragm expansion vessel which may include a
    Schrader valve in which case it is left open or may include only an aperture to vent to atmosphere,
30  and shows the relative positions of the diaphragm when the battery is both fully charged and when the
    battery is fully discharged.    For the avoidance of doubt alternative valve designs may be utilised
    provided they can be left open. Another exemplar, integrated diaphragm system is provided herein,
    and is illustrated in Figure 4. In this system a diaphragm is integrated in the battery case. The
    diaphragm may additionally act as vapour barrier and air barrier. Figure 4 illustrates the operation of
35  an integrated diaphragm expansion volume which includes a Schrader valve left open, or alternatively
    an aperture, and shows the relative positions of the diaphragm when the battery is both fully charged
    and when the battery is fully discharged. For the avoidance of doubt alternative valve designs may be
    utilised provided they may be left open.
             In an alternative embodiment there is a hole in the top surface of the battery casing or
40  alternatively a tube from this face (which may then take a serpentine path provided its final exit is at or
                                                        11

    above the level of said top surface). An inert fluid like silicone oil is floated on top of the PCM to
    perform the function of the diaphragm expansion vessel (including vapour and/or air barrier). At the
    final exit of the tube there may be a reservoir for the inert fluid.
              In thermal energy storage systems herein including a pressurised case design, the casings of
  5 the individual batteries within the store assembly are sealed and the battery casings are designed to
    withstand the increase in pressure when the batteries are heated and the air volume is compressed.
    The batteries are fitted with a pressure sensor and either a pressure relief valve or a burst disc
    assembly to protect the system against high pressure. A detailed view of a pressurised case design in
    shown in Figure 3(b) and an assembly incorporating batteries having pressure release valves is
 .0 illustrated in Figure 5. The pressure sensor associate with each battery is used both for monitoring
    the pressure within the battery case and also for determination of the charge state of the battery as
    described hereinafter. The height of the battery is sized to ensure that the volume of air in the battery
    casing above the PCM is sufficient to keep the pressure within the design working limits.            The
    pressure relief valve is normally set at 1.5 times the design working pressure.
 .5           Thus according to a further aspect the present invention provides thermal energy storage
    systems according to any of the previously provided aspects having PCM expansion management
    means.
              An additional advantage of the thermal energy storage systems of the present invention
    having a monitoring system as detailed hereinbefore is that they are able to predict the charge state
 .0 of the batteries within the assembly.
              The energy inputs and outputs and hence the balance in any individual battery in a battery
    storage stack of batteries within a thermal energy storage system according to the invention can be
    computed when the storage stack is fitted with suitable sensors. Illustration of how these sensors can
    be arranged are provided in Figures 2 and 5.             For example the energy in battery number 4 (as
 .5 illustrated) may be computed at any given time according to the following equations 2, 3 and 4:
              QIN      = [Y ( F, x pi x Cpi) x (T 5 - T4)] / 3600                 (2)
              QON      = [Y ( Fo x po x Cpo) x (T 1 0- T9 )] / 3600               (3)
30            QN       = QN-1 +  QN  -  QON                                       (4)
              Wherein
              QIN      = Energy input to the battery during the last charge cycle,              [kWh]
35            QON      = Energy output from the battery during the last discharge cycle, [kWh]
              QN       = Current stored energy in the battery,                           [kWh]
              QN-1     = Energy stored in the battery before current audit,                     [kWh]
              Fi       = Charging circuit flow rate,                                            [L/s]
              Fo       = Discharging circuit flow rate,                                  [L/s]
40            Pi       = Density of charging circuit fluid,                                     [kg/L]
                                                            12

              PO      = Density of discharging circuit fluid,                                    [kg/L]
              Cpi     = Specific heat of charging circuit fluid,                         [kJ/kg.K]
              CpO     = Specific heat of discharging circuit fluid,                              [kJ/kg.K]
              T5      = Battery 4 charging circuit flow temperature                              [0C]
  5           T4      = Battery 4 charging circuit return temperature                    [0C]
              T10     = Battery 4 discharging circuit flow temperature                   [0C]
              T9      = Battery 4 discharging circuit return temperature                         [0C]
              As will be clear the measurement of any selected battery, X, may be determined via
 .0 replacement of: T5 by the relevant sensors for the measurement of        TXCFT, battery X charging circuit
    flow temperature; T4 by the relevant sensors for the measurement of Tx, battery X charging circuit
    return; T 10 by the relevant sensors for the measurement of      TXDFT, battery X discharging circuit flow
    temperature; and T9 by the relevant sensors for the measurement of           TXDFT, battery X discharging
    circuit return temperature.
 .5           An additional advantageous feature of the thermal energy storage systems of the present
    invention is that they are fitted with pressure sensors for monitoring their integrity and status. These
    pressure sensors can be used as an alternative or additional way to monitor the charge state of the
    batteries within the system, as the pressure in a pressurised case design will change depending on
    the state of charge as the PCM melts or freezes, thereby changing volume, thereby changing the
 .0 volume of the air in the top of the battery, thereby changing the internal air pressure. Calibration can
    be used to create a look-up table that can convert measured pressure to state-of-charge.
              The relationship between the change in state of charge of the PCM and the change of internal
    pressure and average temperature within the battery is illustrated in Figure 6(a) and 6(b), and with
    reference to Figure 6(a), this is explained accordingly herein. During a first zone (or stage, or phase)
 .5 i.e. between points 'A' and 'B' in Figure 6(a), the PCM is solid i.e. frozen and therefore the change in
    pressure within the battery is mainly due to the change in temperature of the air within in the battery
    casing which will be a function of the temperature of the frozen PCM because the battery casing is
    highly insulated. The state of charge increases/decreases slowly because energy is mainly
    stored/releases in the sensible zone, i.e. the solid PCM increases/decreases its average temperature.
30  In a further zone (or stage, or phase), illustrated in Figure 6(a) between points 'B' and 'C', the PCM
    changes phase from solid to liquid during the battery heating cycle, and from liquid to solid during the
    battery discharge cycle. This so-called transition temperature band, for most PCMs, will be between
    40C and 80C. As such, the change in pressure within the battery during this phase will be directly
    proportional to the percentage of the PCM in a liquid (i.e. molten) state. In this zone, energy is
35  stored/released as latent heat, due to the change in phase of the PCM. In the next zone (or stage, or
    phase), as illustrated in Figure 6(a) between points 'C' and 'D', the PCM is fully melted and therefore
    the change in pressure within the battery is mainly due to the change in temperature of the air within
    in the battery casing which will be proportional to the temperature of the liquid (molten) PCM because
    the battery casing is highly insulated. The state of charge is mainly stored in the sensible zone, i.e.
40  the solid PCM increases its average temperature. With reference to Figure 6(b), this is explained
                                                          13

    accordingly herein. During a first zone (or stage, or phase) i.e. between points 'E' and 'F' in Figure
    6(b), the PCM is solid i.e. frozen and therefore the change in state of charge of the battery is a
    function of the temperature of the frozen PCM. The state of charge increases/decreases slowly
    because       energy    is  mainly  stored/releases    in  the   sensible zone,    i.e. the   solid  PCM
  5 increases/decreases its average temperature.        In a further zone (or stage, or phase), illustrated in
    Figure 6(b) between points 'F' and 'G', the PCM changes phase from solid to liquid during the battery
    heating cycle, and from liquid to solid during the battery discharge cycle. This so-called transition
    temperature band, for most PCMs, will be between 40C and 80C.                   In this zone, energy is
    stored/released as latent heat, due to the change in phase of the PCM. In the next zone (or stage, or
 .0 phase), as illustrated in Figure 6(b) between points 'G' and 'H', the PCM is fully melted and therefore
    the change in state of charge within the battery will be proportional to the temperature of the liquid
    (molten) PCM. The state of charge is mainly stored in the sensible zone, i.e. the liquid PCM increases
    its average temperature.
              It is clear from Figure 6(a) and 6(b) that battery pressure and average temperature are
 .5 complementary to each other and give an exhaustive indication of the state of charge of the battery,
    i.e. temperature is a good indicator of the state of charge of the battery outside the melting/freezing
    zone, and pressure is a good indicator of the state of charge of the battery in the melting/freezing
    zone. The relationship between pressure and state of charge or temperature and state of charge may
    not be linear as in Figures 6(a) and 6(b), or may not be linear in every zone.
  0           In case the enclosure presents an aperture to surroundings, pressure would be steady at any
    state of charge of the battery. In this case, additionally to the temperature, the level of the PCM can
    be used as complementary indicator of the state of charge of the battery. As this particular system
    requires an additional substance to protect the PCM against water vapour, air, and contaminants
    exchange, e.g. an oil, this substance could change its level according to expansion and contraction of
  5 the PCM in chamber external to the enclosure of the battery, e.g. a graduated cylinder, that allows
    visual indication of the state of charge of the battery and/or electronic measure via a level sensor, for
    example an ultrasonic level sensor or a float arm tied to a rotational sensor. This could be achieved
    also in the enclosure volume, by adding a transparent cut-out in case of visual indication or a level
    sensor in the heat battery above the PCM/additional substance system for electronic measures.
30            It is anticipated that the maximum working pressure will be similar for all battery types i.e.
    volume of air in the battery to absorb expansion of the PCM during heating will increase in
    proportional to the volume of PCM in the battery. However for utility herein any particular battery
    types would be type tested to determine the pressure-temperature characteristics and this data would
    be stored in the PCM store controller.
35           The power rating of the charging and discharging circuits of the battery will affect the
    pressure-temperature characteristic and therefore these parameters will be stored in the controller for
    correcting these.
             The algorithms used for determining the status of the battery using the control system
         detailed herein are described hereinafter below and the symbols used are detailed in Table 1. The
40       state of charge of the battery is defined as a fraction of the maximum energy that can be stored in
                                                         14

        the battery between a minimum and a maximum temperature, which can vary according to the
        final application, to the PCM in the battery, and to safety requirements. The maximum energy
        storable is composed by three quantities, according to the following description. The symbols
        used are detailed in Table 1:
  5     1) Sensible heat due to the temperature difference between the solid state material at the
             beginning of the melting zone,    TF  in Figure 6(b), and the base reference temperature, TE in
             Figure 6(b):
             Ess = mPCMCps-6TEF/ 3600
        2)   Latent heat due to the phase change of the material during melting/freezing process. This is a
 .0          property of each PCM and proportional to the amount of PCM in the battery:
             EL = mPCMHL/ 3600
        3)   Sensible heat due to the temperature difference between the liquid state material at the
             maximum temperature limit, TH in Figure 6(b), and the temperature of the liquid state material
             at the beginning of the freezing zone,   TG in Figure 6(b):
 .5          EsL = mPCM-CpL'TGH / 3600
        4)   Total storable energy is therefore:
             ETOT  = Ess + EL + EsL
    TABLE 1
 .0
    Symbol     Definition                                                                Measurement
    Ess        Sensible heat in the solid phase                                          kWh
    mPCM       Mass of PCM in the battery                                                kg
    Cps        Specific heat capacity in solid state                                     kJ/kg K
    6TEF       Temperature range between the base reference temperature and the          K
               lower temperature limit of the melting zone
    EL         Latent heat in the phase change zone                                      kWh
    HL         Specific latent heat                                                      kJlkg
    ESL        Sensible heat in the liquid phase                                         kWh
    CPL        Specific heat capacity in liquid state                                    kJlkg K
    5TGH       Temperature range between the higher temperature limit of the             K
               melting zone and the maximum temperature limit
    ETOT       Total storable energy                                                     kWh
        The algorithms used for determining the status of the battery using the control system detailed
        herein are described hereinafter below and the symbols used are detailed in Table 2.
        h) If QIN = 1 and 6P:5 Pu OR QIN = 1 and PBC 5 PA, then:
25           -    Battery case is not airtight
             -    Activate appropriate alarm/warning
             -    Put this battery in standby mode i.e. stop charging
                                                          15

        i) If (QIN  =  1 and 6P    PL2) OR   QIN =  1 and PBC : PL3,  then:
            -     Battery case pressure is exceeding the maximum operating limit
            -     Activate appropriate alarm/warning
  5         -     Put this battery in standby mode i.e. stop charging
        j) If (QIN =   0 and TBC5   TE), then:
            -     Put this battery in charging mode Q=1 i.e. start charging
            -     SOC=O
 .0     k) If (QIN = 1 and 6T     TL2)   OR QIN = 1 and   TBC  TL3,  then:
            -     Battery case temperature is exceeding the maximum operating limit
            -     Activate appropriate alarm/warning
            -     Put this battery in standby mode i.e. stop charging
 .5     I) If  PAB1 : ABS(6P) :     PAB2  OR PA 5 PBC 5 PB OR TE 5 TBC 5 TF OR      TEF1  : ABS(6T) :   TEF2,  then
           the battery is operating in zone AB (See Figure 6(a)) corresponding to zone EF (See Figure
           6(b))
            SOC = 100-mPCMCps-6TS / ETOT
  0     m) If PBC1 : ABS(6P) 5     PBC2   OR PB 5 PBC 5 PC OR TF 5 TBC 5 TG OR      TFG1  : ABS(6T) 5   TFG2,  then
           the battery is operating in zone BC (See Figure 6(a)) corresponding to zone FG (See Figure
           6(b))
                  SOC = 100-( EsL + FBC"CBC"PB) / ETOT
        n)   If PCD1 : ABS(6P) : PCD2 OR PC : PBC : PD OR            TG  : TBC 5 TH OR   TGH1  : ABS(6T) :    TGH2,
  5        then the battery is operating in zone CD (See Figure 6(a)) corresponding to zone GH (See
           Figure 6(b))
    SOC = 100-( EsL +     EL + mPCM'CpL-5TL)    / ETOT
    TABLE 2
30
    Symbol     Definition                                                                     Measurement
    QIN        Battery charging state                                                         1 = Active, 0=
                                                                                              Standby
    6P         Rate of pressure change                                                        Pa/s
    Pu         Minimum rate of pressure change limit                                          Pa/s
    PBC        Battery case pressure                                                          Pa
    PA         Base reference pressure                                                        Pa
    PL2        Maximum rate of pressure change limit                                          Pa/s
    PL3        Maximum battery case working pressure                                          Pa
    TBC        Battery case temperature                                                       K
                                                           16

  TE          Base reference temperature                                              K
  SOC         State of charge of the battery
  6T          Rate of temperature change                                              K/s
  TL2         Maximum rate of temperature change limit                                K/s
  TL3         Maximum battery case working temperature                                K/s
  PAB1        Rate of pressure change in zone AB - Lower limit                        Pa/s
  PAB2        Rate of pressure change in zone AB - Upper limit                        Pa/s
  PA          Battery pressure at operating point A in Figure 6(a)                    Pa
  PB          Battery pressure at operating point B in Figure 6(a)                    Pa
  TF          Battery temperature at operating point F in Figure 6(b)                 K
  TEF1        Rate of temperature change in zone EF - Lower limit                     K/s
  TEF2        Rate of temperature change in zone EF - Upper limit                     K/s
  6T,         Temperature difference between battery temperature TBC and              K
              minimum reference temperature    TE
  PBC1        Rate of pressure change in zone BC - Lower limit                        Pa/s
  PBC2        Rate of pressure change in zone BC - Upper limit                        Pa/s
  PC          Battery pressure at operating point C in Figure 6(a)
  TG          Battery temperature at operating point G in Figure 6(b)                 K
  TFG1        Rate of temperature change in zone FG - Lower limit                     K/s
  TFG2        Rate of temperature change in zone FG - Upper limit                     K/s
  FBC         Scaling factor for - Zone BC
  CBC         Correction factor (Power & PCM)
  PCD1        Rate of pressure change in zone CD - Lower limit                        Pa/s
  PCD2        Rate of pressure change in zone CD - Upper limit                        Pa/s
  PC          Battery pressure at operating point C in Figure 6(a)                    Pa
  PD          Battery pressure at operating point D in Figure 6(a)                    Pa
  TG          Battery temperature at operating point G in Figure 6(b)                 K
  TH          Battery temperature at operating point H in Figure 6(b)                 K
  TGH1        Rate of temperature change in zone GH - Lower limit                     K/s
  TGH2        Rate of temperature change in zone GH - Upper limit                     K/s
  5TL         Temperature difference between battery temperature TBC and upper        K
              temperature of the melting zone  TG
           When a plurality of heat exchanger is enclosed in the same casing, load and discharge ports
  of each heat exchanger can be connected to those of another heat exchanger in order (a) to
  maximize the increase (discharge phase) or the drop (load phase) in temperature from the inlet to the
5 outlet of the heat exchanger assembly (serial connection), or in order (b) to minimize the flow rate and
  related pressure drop between the inlet and the outlet of the heat exchanger assembly (parallel
  connection). In the same enclosure, both serial and parallel connections can be used to connect
                                                       17

    different heat exchangers. Furthermore, each connection can be configured on demand to be parallel
    or serial according to the requirement and to the controlling strategies, e.g. connections are normally
    parallel to minimize the pressure drop and are temporarily changed to serial through diverter valves
    when extra power is required, eventually using a boost pump to overcome the pressure drop.
  5 Furthermore, different heat exchangers in the same enclosure can utilize different and independent
    hydraulic circuits. Furthermore, a thermal insulation can be placed between single heat exchangers in
    the same enclosure to avoid thermal dissipation between different part of the same enclosure at
    different state of charge, e.g. composite sheets or foam cell insulation or insulation foils.
              In Figure 1(a) a battery case (1) containing one or more heat exchangers (2) and a PCM (3) is
 .0 illustrated. Internal volume A, between the PCM and the battery casing, is filled with a gas, e.g. air or
    nitrogen, and varies in volume according to the expansion and contraction of the PCM level. The
    different PCM levels when cold (frozen) and hot (molten) are illustrated by points B and C. The heat
    exchangers inside the battery case are anchored via a plurality of supports (4). Various charging and
    discharging ports are indicated by (5). Further connection ports are indicated by (6).
 .5           In Figure 2 thermal storage system (7) for the management of flow from a heat source (not
    illustrated) to a heating load (not illustrated) which contains a plurality of inter-connected battery
    assemblies (8), as specifically indicated by batteries 1 to 4, is illustrated, with each battery assembly
    being in operative connection with at least one volume compensation unit (9) having means for
    venting, and wherein the integral control system (10) manages the operation of the system via
 .0 sensors F1 and F2, which measure the charging and discharging circuit flow rates respectively,
    temperature sensors (T1, T2, T3, T4,T5) which measure the temperature of the heat flow into the
    battery assembly and diverter valves (DV1, DV2, DV3, DV4, DV5) to control efficient charging of the
    individual batteries, temperature sensors (T6, T7, T8, T9, T10) to determine the energy delivered by
    each battery and the residual energy in each battery during discharging, and pressure relief valves
 15 (PRV).
              In Figure 3(a) a diaphragm expansion vessel (11) having positions relating to a fully charged
    or fully discharged state represented by a dotted line and thickened line respectively, and having a
    Schrader valve (12), a vapour barrier (13), a pressure release valve (PRV) and a connection port A
    for a battery (within the assembly).
30            In Figure 3(b) a vapour barrier (14), a pressure release valve (PRV) and a connection port A
    for a battery (within the assembly) are shown.
              In Figure 4 the diaphragm is integrated in the battery enclosure. Positions relating to a fully
    charged or fully discharged state represented by a dotted line and thickened line respectively, and
    having a Schrader valve (12), a pressure release valve (PRV). In Figure 5 where components or
35  features having the same indicia as for Figure 2 are provided, these are representative of the same
    components or features, unless otherwise specifically indicated. Figure 5 illustrates a thermal storage
    system (7) contains a plurality of inter-connected battery assemblies (8), batteries 1 to 4, is illustrated,
    with each battery assembly being sealed and in operative connection with at least one pressure
    release valve (PRV) in operative connection with pressure sensors (PS1, PS2, PS3, PSS4) to
40  determine the charge status of the batteries, and wherein the integral control system (10) manages
                                                         18

   the operation of the system via sensors F1, F2, T1, T2, T3, T4, T5, T6, T7, T8, T9, and T10, diverter
   valves DV1, DV2, DV3, DV4, and DV5 as detailed in the description for Figure 2.
            In Figure 6 the following zones are indicated which illustrate the relationship between the
   change in temperature of the PCM and the change of internal pressure within the battery: between
 5 points 'A' and 'B' the PCM is solid; between points 'B' and 'C', the PCM changes phase from solid to
   liquid during the battery heating cycle, and from liquid to solid during the battery discharge cycle; and
   between points 'C' and 'D', the PCM is fully melted.
            The novel thermal energy storage systems according to the present invention are assembled
   from a plurality of heat batteries each containing an integrated loading and unloading circuits.
.0
                                                       19

                                                  20
CLAIMS
1.     A thermal energy storage system comprising a thermal energy store containing a single or
a plurality of battery casings having internal heat exchangers and phase change materials and
means for controlling the operation of said thermal energy store,
       wherein each of said battery casing independently contains a battery comprising one or
more heat exchangers anchored within said casing, a phase change material and means for
protection against over pressurisation of said battery, and
       wherein said controlling means is provided by a one or a plurality of sensors for the
measurement of power at one or multiple points within the system and said controlling means is
adapted to provide measurements of the charging and discharging circuit flow rates of said
system via one or more power sensors.
2.     A system according to claim 1, wherein the battery casing is capable of withstanding low
negative pressures including 0.0 bar to 4.0 bar.
3.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein heat exchangers are used to provide
support within storage systems and battery casings such as during low pressure situations.
4.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein battery casing materials of sufficient
strength are selected so that batteries can be stacked up to a plurality of batteries without
intermediate supports, e.g. 6 batteries.
5.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the battery casing is a metal, metal
alloy, coated metal, coated alloy, plastic, composite sandwich or composite material having
sufficient strength for an individual battery to support a plurality of additional batteries in a
multiple-stack battery system without intermediate supports.
6.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the controlling means is adapted to
provide measurements of the charging and discharging circuit flow rates of said system via one
or more power sensors.

                                                    21
7.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the controlling means is adapted to
provide means for efficient charging of the individual batteries within the assembly via one or
more input temperature sensors and one or more diverter valves.
8.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the phase change materials are
utilised within the batteries to have a solid to liquid phase change within a temperature range of
from 00 C to 100 0 C and wherein the operative range of said phase change materials is between a
4 and 8 degree difference in temperature.
9.     A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the system comprises means for phase
change material expansion management provided by external or internal volume compensation
features, or by pressurised case design features, in relation to each individual battery within said
assembly and wherein said means is in operative connection with a vapour barrier, and either a
pressure relief valve, or a burst disc assembly.
10.    A system according to any preceding claim, wherein a single heat exchanger
accommodates a vertical thermal insulating layer between different parts of the heat exchanger,
to avoid thermal dissipation between parts of the heat exchanger at different temperature such as
a composite sheet or an insulating foil or insulating foam.
11.    A system according to any preceding claim, wherein a heat exchanger is used to
accommodate a vertical thermal insulating layer between different parts of the heat exchanger, to
avoid thermal dissipation between parts of the heat exchanger at different temperature such as a
composite sheet or an insulating foil or insulating foam.
12.    A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the thermal energy storage systems
include an integral system controller wherein the particular control functions of said controller is
adapted according to the particular application / utility of the system.
13.    A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the controller utilises power sensors
for the measurement of the charging and discharging circuit flow rates of the system
respectively, said power sensors are comprised of a combination of flow sensors, temperature
sensors and computation engine to derive thermal power.

                                                  22
14.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the controller utilises input
temperature sensors and diverter valves to control efficient charging of the individual batteries
within the assembly, using pre-defined rules, which depend upon the application and the type of
PCM in the batteries and wherein the temperature sensors are also used for calculating the
energy stored and the power input, of both individual batteries within the assembly, as well as of
the overall battery assembly.
15.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the batteries are sealed by using
sealed battery casings or by the addition of a substance on top of the PCM(s) acting as a barrier
against vapour or air or contaminants exchange, (e.g. oil) wherein this provides protection to the
PCM within the battery assembly from the ingress of oxygen and water vapour by sealing to
prevent external contaminants / degrading components such as fresh air or water vapour from
contacting the PCM(s), or the loss of PCM components for example by dehydration.
16.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein battery casings are made from
materials which both shield the PCM from ingress/egress of water vapour and ingress of oxygen
in order to minimise the deterioration of the thermal performance of the battery, and also to
provide sufficient structural support / strength to support one or more batteries in a stacked
system without the need for intermediate structural supporting means and in the case where an
additional substance is used as a barrier against water vapour, oxygen, and further contaminants,
the casings must only provide structural support / strength to support one or more batteries in a
stacked system.
17.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the heat exchangers inside each
battery casing are anchored so that they can expand and contract in all three planes, within said
casing, without stressing the casing or the inter-connected heat exchanger assembly as a whole
and wherein the heat exchanger supports are arranged so that the contact area between each heat
exchanger and each battery casing is minimal (e.g. <600mm2 for a 2.5kWh battery) in order to
minimise conduction heat losses and thereby increase the heat efficiency of the overall system.
18.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the battery case is designed to
withstand 2.0 times the normal working pressure of the thermal energy storage system such as a
range between 0.0 bar and 2.0 bar.

                                                   23
19.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein single or a plurality of battery
assemblies are arranged in a stacked system, having in particular a stacked battery arrangement
which are independently selected multiple stacked batteries and this also includes the capability
to place the batteries side by side in a single layer arrangement, or in multiple layers with two or
more batteries side by side on each layer, and not necessarily the same number of batteries side
by side on each layer.
20.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein there is protection of the one or more
battery casing(s) against over pressurisation using pressure relief valve(s), or one or more
pressure rupture disc(s) such as a diaphragm.
21.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein in case the enclosure presents an
aperture to surroundings, pressure would be steady at any state of charge of the battery; and in
this case, additionally to the temperature, the level of the PCM can be used as complementary
indicator of the state of charge of the battery as this particular system requires an additional
substance to protect the PCM against water vapour, air, and contaminants exchange, (e.g. an oil),
this substance can change its level according to expansion and contraction of the PCM in the
chamber external to the enclosure of the battery, (e.g. a graduated cylinder), that allows visual
indication of the state of charge of the battery and/or electronic measure via a level sensor, for
example an ultrasonic level sensor or a float arm tied to a rotational sensor; or alternately this is
achievable also in the enclosure volume, by adding a transparent cut-out in case of visual
indication or a level sensor in the heat battery above the PCM/additional substance system for
electronic measures.
22.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein when a plurality of heat exchangers
are enclosed in the same casing, load and discharge ports of each heat exchanger are connected
to those of another heat exchanger in order:
       (a) to maximize the increase (discharge phase) or the drop (load phase) in temperature
from the inlet to the outlet of the heat exchanger assembly (serial connection), or in order
       (b) to minimize the flow rate and related pressure drop between the inlet and the outlet of
the heat exchanger assembly (parallel connection).
23.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein in the same enclosure, both serial and
parallel connections are used to connect different heat exchangers.

                                                 24
24.   A system according to claim 23, wherein each connection is configured on demand to be
parallel or serial according to the requirement and to the controlling strategies, e.g. connections
are normally parallel to minimize the pressure drop and are temporarily changed to serial
through diverter valves when extra power is required, eventually using a boost pump to
overcome the pressure drop.
25.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein different heat exchangers in the same
enclosure utilize different and independent hydraulic circuits.
26.   A system according to any preceding claim, wherein a thermal insulation is placed between
single heat exchangers in the same enclosure to avoid thermal dissipation between different parts
of the same enclosure at different state of charge, e.g. composite sheets or foam cell insulation or
insulation foils.
                                          SunAmp Limited
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/6

