                                             ABSTRACT
PRO-TENNIS is an innovative tennis game generally retaining the present tennis game features. It
includes new court layout markings, a new strung racket arrangement, a higher net at the centre and
also the proposal of new rules all intended to improve the standard of the tennis game and make it
more exiting.

             mi
                LAI
              mz
               - -----
                             0
                           c                r
                     4                           z
                                 zz
                                    Z          C
S 6 7~                                        a
                       Nc\        z
                                       CL 3
                              I,
                              3   3
       6' 91                                  (/
                                   CLU

              P R O-T E N N I S - (Progressive Tennis)
  PRO-TENNIS is an innovative tennis game generally retaining the present tennis
                                                                                       game
  features but incorporating new features to make it more exiting to play.
 Pro-Tennis innovations:
  (a) A new court layout markings ( refer attachedsketches)
 (b) The net is made higher at the centre rather than lower as at present.
 (c) The racket stringing arrangement is changed to automatically induce spin to the
                                                                                        ball.
 (d) Scoring is called out by an individual watching a monitor where electronic images
                                                                                          are
 relayed to. A monitor is also kept by the umpire to confirm scores.
 The new stringing arrangement for the racket involves passing the strings over recesses
 made perpendicular to the circumference of the racket or other means to produce curved
 stringing arrangement on both sides. The strings are then crossed at the centre of the
 racket to end up on the opposite side of it with a symmetrical curved shape on both sides.
 The intention of the new curved stringing racket is to automatically produce spin when
 the ball is hit.
 1. The net is made higher at the centre together with the new
    curved court layout to disfavour big servers and make the game more exciting.
 3, Long baseline rallies have also become boring and physically demanding on
    players. Pro-Tennis intents to produce shorter rallies requiring more dexterity from
    players to win points.
 4. Five set matches with long rallies and deuces are also too physically demanding to
    players and the game standards generally declines in long matches. Pro-Tennis aims to
    improve this.
 The new court layout markings, a new strung racket arrangement, the higher net at the
 centre and also the proposed new rules are intended to improve the standard of the tennis
game and make it more exiting.
Changes to the tennis game following the innovations
(a) Serving for each game could be done from the same side of the court.
(b) The new court curved markings and the higher net at the centre should reduce the
     number of aces scoring and make ground shots harder. The game would then become
     more challenging. Long baseline rallies would be reduced.
(c) The numerous duce scorings could be eliminated by awarding the game to the
     advantage player after three deuces
(d) The double serve could be eliminated but retained for the advantage scoring
(e) Scoring could also be changed to: ten love, twenty love, thirty love andforty love,
     easier to relay.
(f) The curved racket string arrangement should provide a more challenging and
     interesting game.
                                     j 12 AM                                    Page 1 of 2
                                 CnC

Attachments: Cheque for $280.00, application form, sketches showing the new curved
court layout markings, net layout and the new Pro-Tennis racket stringing arrangement.
Signed:
Justin G   ttanzio - PRO-TENNIS Innovator.
Dat . 21 February, 2018
                                                                           Page 2 of 2

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     201
<removed-apn>
              - There LV  page of Drawings RQO\

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
