    COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR INCREASING LIFESPAN AND HEALTH
                                               SPAN
                                             Abstract
        Disclosed herein are compounds, extracts, and active fractions of the plant Geum
japonicum and methods for increasing longevity and survival potency or for preventing or
 treating various medical conditions, including diabetes, inflammation, wound healing, bed sores,
 and ocular disorders. The compounds provided herein can be formulated into pharmaceutical
 compositions and medicaments that are useful in the disclosed methods. Also provided are the
 use of the compounds and extracts in preparing pharmaceutical formulations and medicaments.

                                                  1
      COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR INCREASING LIFESPAN
                                     AND HEALTH SPAN
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001]   The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/186,709, filed June 12, 2009, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/187,905, filed June
 17, 2009, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 The present invention is also related to Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
 Australian Patent No. 2010258358, and International Application No. PCT/1B2010/001426, the
 entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
                                          BACKGROUND
 [0002]   The following description is provided to assist the understanding of the reader. None
of the information provided or references cited is admitted to be prior art to the present
invention.
 [0003]   Longevity has long been one of the hottest areas of science, but it remains a poorly
understood area of research. Critically and scientifically speaking, people do not know how
to measure aging. Aging is not merely chronological.       Some people are spry and nimble in
their elder years, while others are afflicted by the diseases of aging - heart disease,
hypertension, stroke, diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer disease, and dementia-by middle age.
 [0004]    It is a consensus that the population almost everywhere of the world is graying
rapidly. The percentage of people age 65 and older is increasing from 7% in 2005 to 16% in
2050. The number of elderly people has already tripled since 1950, and will triple again by
2050, when 1.5 billion people will be over 65. Aging research involving the search for single
gene mutations with dominant positive effects on lifespan/health span has not been
successful. Aging is a generalized degenerative deterioration, and is probably not due to
changes in a single gene or system.
 [0005]   The phenomenon of limited cellular division was first observed by Leonard Hayflick,
which is now referred to as Hayflick limit. During cell division, the replication of DNA cannot
proceed all the way to the end of the chromosome. A telomere is a region of repetitive DNA at
the end of a chromosome, which protects the end of the chromosome from deterioration.
Without telomeres, cells would lose the ends of their chromosomes, and the necessary
information they contain during their replication. The telomeres act as a disposable

buffer blocking the ends of chromosomes that are consumed during cell division and
replenished by an enzyme, the telomerase. Telomerase is capable of replenishing the 3' end of
chromosomes by adding TTAGGG repeats (Autexier C et al. 2006, Collins K et al. 2006).
[00061     Lengthening telomeres in certain important cells through temporary activation of
telomerase, or by gene therapy for life extension has long been proposed. A study done with
the nematode worm species Caenorhabditiselegans indicates that there is a correlation
between lengthening telomeres and a longer lifespan. The worms with longer telomeres lived
24 days on average, about 20 percent longer than the normal worms (Artandi SE et al. 2000).
                                            SUMMARY
100071     The present invention relates inter alia to an organic extract of Geumjaponicum
(OEGJ) that enhances the longevity of cells in cell culture systems. The present inventors
surprisingly found that the cells in culture and tissues from experimental animals that were
treated with OEGJ showed significantly increased telomerase activity. Further studies of
OEGJ in animal models demonstrated an increased lifespan. Without wishing to be limited by
theory, the up-regulation of survival-enhancing genes, such as Atkl, Bcl2, VEGF and NFKB,
and telomerase activity are the underlying mechanisms for the enhanced survival and
longevity of the experimental animals.
 [0008]    In some embodiments, the invention relates to the use of a pharmaceutical
composition and a method of enhancing longevity and revitalization. Particularly, it relates
to a pharmaceutical composition and method for enhancing the vitality and stimulating the
 activity of telomerase in mammalian subjects so that it can be used for anti-aging and
 substantial enhancement of a healthy lifespan and longevity.
 [00091    In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for enhancing longevity and
 quality of life in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject
 an effective amount of OEGJ. In one embodiment, the administration of the extract
 stimulates expression of telomerase and one or more cell survival factors selected from the
 group consisting of: Aktl, Bcl2, EGF, VEGF and NFKB. In one embodiment, the
 administration of the extract increases lifespan or quality of life compared to a subject not
 administered the extract. In one embodiment, the subject is a human.
                                                   2

[00101    In one embodiment, the organic extract is an ethanol extract. In one embodiment,
the organic extract is a methanol extract. In one embodiment, the extract is administered
orally. In one embodiment, the extract is administered by subcutaneous injection,
intramuscular injection, or intravenous infusion. In one embodiment, the extract is
administered in an amount of from 0.01 mg/kg/day to 10000 mg/kg/day. In one embodiment,
the effective amount of the extract is in the form of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising
the extract and a suitable carrier or excipient therefor.
 [00111    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition for
enhancing longevity and quality of life in a subject comprising an effective amount of OEGJ
and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
 [00121    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for preventing or
treating diabetes in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering to the
subject an effective amount of OEGJ.
 [0013]    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for preventing or
treating ocular diseases or conditions in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising
 administering to the subject an effective amount of OEGJ.
 [00141    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for treating
 inflammation in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject
 an effective amount of OEGJ.
 [00151     In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for enhancing wound
 healing in a subject having a wound, the method comprising administering to the subject an
 effective amount of OEGJ. In one embodiment, the wound is a bed sore.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 [0016]     FIG. 1 shows that OEGJ enhanced survival potency or life expectancy in C. elegans.
 Wild type N2 C. elegans were grown on NGM agar plates streaked with Escherichiacoli
 strain OP50 in forced-air incubators. The N2 worms at LI in the test group were treated with
 OEGJ (150 ptg/ml) and the worms in control group were treated with equivalent solvent. In
 order to test the survival potency of the OEGJ treated worms, the culture temperature was
 increased up to 27 0C. Ct-7, the N2 worms in non-treated control group at 27"C for 7 days,
 some of the worms died with some of them still alive, but no young worms were observed.
                                                   3

OEGJ-7, OEGJ-treated worms at the same condition for 7 days, almost no worms died and
interestingly many young worms were observed. Ct-14, after 14 days incubation at 27 "C, all
N2 worms in non-treated control group died. OEGJ-14, although, after 14 days incubation at
27 0C, most of the adult worms died, many young worms were observed still alive in OEGJ
treated samples.
100171     FIG. 2, The effect of OEGJ treatment on the lifespan/health span of N2 C. elegans.
Ct, The non-treated control N2 worms. Tr, The OEGJ treated worms. It was shown that more
live worms in OEGJ treated group were observed at almost all checking points than those of
non-treated group. All worms of non-treated group died on day 38. However, about 5% of
worms of OEGJ-treated group were still alive. The remaining worms of OEGJ-treated group
died on day 42, about 10% longer than that of non-treated control worms.
 [00181    FIG. 3, The effect of OEGJ treatment on the lifespan/health span of daf-2 C.
elegans. Ct, The non-treated control daf-2 worms. Tr, The OEGJ-treated worms. It was found
that more live worms in OEGJ-treated group were observed at almost all observing points
than those of non-treated group. Approximately 5% worms remained alive on day 56 in non
treated control group; however, about 10% of worms of OEGJ treated group were alive.
 100191    FIG. 4, The effect of OEGJ treatment on the lifespan/health span of daf-16 C.
elegans. Ct, The non-treated control daf-16 worms. Tr, The OEGJ-treated daf-16 worms.
Approximately 77% worms in non-treated control group died on day 12. By comparison,
 about 50% worms of OEGJ-treated group were found alive on day 12. Namely,
 approximately 27% more worms died in non-treated group than that of OEGJ-treated,
 indicating that the healthspan is significantly increased by OEGJ treatment.
 100201    FIG. 5, The effect of OEGJ treatment on the lifespan/health span of daf-2 C. elegans
 synchronized LI at 20 "C and grown at 20 "C. Ct, The non-treated control daf-2 worms. Tr,
 The OEGJ-treated worms. About 58% of worms in OEGJ-treated group remained alive on
 day 21. By comparison, about 58% of worms in non-treated control group died on day 21.
 About 5-15% more worms in OEGJ-treated group were alive at all check points than those of
 non-treated control worms, indicating the increased health span and lifespan.
 [0021]    FIG. 6, OEGJ treatment induced up-regulation of mTERT expression in hearts. Ctr,
 mTERT signal from non-treated control hearts of mice. OEGJ-1-4, denotes the mTERT
 signals from OEGJ-treated hearts of mice. Positive signals of mTERT were observed in all
                                                  4

four OEGJ-treated heart samples showing ~ 2        4.8-13.27 folds higher mTERT expressions than
the non-treated control samples (Ctr).
[00221     FIG. 7, The OEGJ treatment induced neoangiogenesis in brains of SAMP10 mice. a,
Significantly more (15-25%) blood vessels (circles) were observed around hippocampus
region of the OEGJ treated mice. b, By contrast, fewer vessels were found around the
hippocampus region of non-treated control mice (circles). c, More (15-25%) vessels were
observed in cortex region of frontal lobe in OEGJ treated mice (circles). d, Fewer vessels
were found in the same region in non-treated control animals (circles).
[00231     FIG. 8, The OEGJ treatment induced neuronal regeneration in SAMP10 mice. a,
Almost no positive Ki67 signals were observed in the hippocampus region of the non-treated
control mice. b, Some dark brown Ki67 positive signals (circled) with the shape of nuclei of
granule cells were found in the inner edge of the DG region of hippocampus in OEGJ treated
animals indicating neuronal regeneration. c, Almost no Ki67 positive signals were found in
cortex region of frontal lobe of the non-treated control mice. d, Some Ki67 positive signals
with the shape of neurons (red circles) were identified in cortex region of frontal lobe in
OEGJ treated mice.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [00241    In various aspects, the present invention provides compounds, extracts, and methods
 for increasing longevity and for preventing or treating various medical conditions. The
 compounds provided herein can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions and
medicaments that are useful in the disclosed methods. Also provided are the use of the
 compounds and extracts in preparing pharmaceutical formulations and medicaments.
 [0025]    It is to be appreciated that certain aspects, modes, embodiments, variations and
 features of the invention are described below in various levels of detail in order to provide a
 substantial understanding of the present invention. The following terms are used throughout
 as described below, unless context clearly indicates otherwise.
 [0026]    As used herein, the "administration" of an agent or drug to a subject or subject
 includes any route of introducing or delivering to a subject a compound to perform its
 intended function. Administration can be carried out by any suitable route, including orally,
 intranasally, parenterally (intravenously, intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, or
                                                    5

subcutaneously), rectally, or topically. Administration includes self-administration and the
administration by another. It is also to be appreciated that the various modes of treatment or
prevention of medical conditions as described are intended to mean "substantial", which
includes total but also less than total treatment or prevention, and wherein some biologically
or medically relevant result is achieved.
[0027]     As used herein, the term "effective amount" or "pharmaceutically effective amount"
or "therapeutically effective amount" of a composition, is a quantity sufficient to achieve a
desired therapeutic and/or prophylactic effect, e.g., an amount which results in the prevention
of, or a decrease in, the symptoms associated with a disease that is being treated. The amount
of a composition of the invention administered to the subject will depend on the type and
severity of the disease and on the characteristics of the individual, such as general health, age,
sex, body weight and tolerance to drugs. It will also depend on the degree, severity and type
of disease. The skilled artisan will be able to determine appropriate dosages depending on
these and other factors. The compositions of the present invention can also be administered
in combination with one or more additional therapeutic compounds.
 [00281    The abbreviation "OEGJ" used in the invention, without specific indication, means
an extract of the plant Geumjaponicumby an organic solvent described below.
 10029]    As used herein, the term "longevity" refers to the lifespan of the animal. Thus,
longevity refers to the number of years in the lifespan of an animal. In some embodiments,
the term "increased longevity" with regard to subjects administered the compositions of the
invention, means that the lifespan of a non-diseased animal administered the compositions is
 increased relative to another non-diseased animal not administered the compositions. In
 some embodiments, the longevity of the animal is increased at least 6 months, at least 1 year,
 at least two years, at least 3 years, at least 4 years, at least 5 years, or at least 10 years
 compared to a non-diseased animal not administered the compositions. In some
 embodiments the longevity of the animal is increased at least one year, but not more than 10
 years, not more than 5 years, or not more than 4 years compared to a non-diseased animal not
 administered the compositions.
 [00301     As used herein, the terms "treating" or "treatment" or "alleviation" refers to both
 therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to
 prevent or slow down (lessen) the targeted pathologic condition or disorder. A subject is
                                                    6

successfully "treated" for a disorder if, after receiving a therapeutic agent according to the
methods of the present invention, the subject shows observable and/or measurable reduction
in or absence of one or more signs and symptoms of a particular disease or condition.
[0031]    As used herein, "prevention" or "preventing" of a disorder or condition refers to a
compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in
the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the
severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated
control sample.
[0032]    As used herein, the term "subject" refers to a mammal, such as a human, but can
also be an animal, e.g., domestic animals (e.g., dogs, cats and the like), farm animals (e.g.,
cows, sheep, pigs, horses and the like) and laboratory animals (e.g., monkey, rats, mice,
rabbits, guinea pigs and the like).
Compositions of the Invention
 100331   The present invention provides methods increasing longevity in a subject with
extracts and compounds, and derivatives of such compounds from a variety of plants
including Geumjaponicum and Xian he cao (also known as Agrimonia pilosa Ledeb..
 [0034]    In some embodiments, the compound is a whole plant, an extract, e.g., an organic
extract, of Geumjaponicum or Xian he cao. In a particular embodiment, the compound is a
methanol/ethanol extract of Geumjaponicum or an active fraction thereof. In some
 embodiments, the compound is a fraction of an extract of Geumjaponicum.
 [0035]   The present invention provides methods of increasing longevity in a subject with
 agents and/or extracts and compounds, and derivatives of such compounds from a variety of
 plants including Geumjaponicum. In some embodiments, the agent is an extract, e.g., an
 organic extract, of Geumjaponicum. In a particular embodiment, the agent is a
 methanol/ethanol extract of Geumjaponicum or an active fraction thereof.
 Preparation of Organic Extract of Geum japonicum
 [00361    A method for preparing an organic extract from Geum Japonicum Thunb var is
 provided. This method comprises the step of (a) extracting the plant of Geum Japonicum
 Thunb with alcohol selected from the group consisting of Cl-C4 alcohols. This step maybe
                                                   7

repeated 3-6 times, typically 5 times, at room temperature. Before performing step (a), the
plant material may be powdered or cut into small pieces. The C1-C4 alcohols include
methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, iso-propanol, n-butanol, iso-butanol, and ter-butanol.
Typically, alcohol is added in 1-10 times by weight of the amount of the Geum Japonicum
thunb var. to be extracted.
[00371     The methods may further comprise the step of (b) drying the extract obtained from
the step of (a) into a dried powder; and (c) successively extracting the powder obtained from
the step of (b) with C6 alkane, EtOAc and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of
C1-C4 alcohols. The C6 alkane includes cyclic and non-cyclic alkane having 6 carbon atoms,
including, for example, cyclohexane, n-hexane, and neo-hexane, etc. The C1 -C4 alcohols
include methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, iso-propanol, n-butanol, iso-butanol, and ter-butanol.
The amount of organic solvent to be used is typically 1-10 times by weight of the amount of
the powders to be further extracted.
 [00381    The method as recited above may also include filtering the extract to remove any
insoluble powders therein. A drying step may be completed under reduced pressure at a
temperature higher than room temperature, for example, at 50'C.
 [00391    To purify the OEGJ, the method may further comprise the steps of applying the
powder to a chromatographic column; and eluting the column with an aqueous solution with
 increasing concentration of an alcohol selected from the group consisting of C1-C4 alcohols.
 For example, a Sephadex or reverse phase column may be used. The alcohol used may be any
 one selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, iso-propanol, n
 butanol, iso-butanol, and ter-butanol.
 [00401    By NMR analysis, it is found that the OEGJ typically contains mainly tannins
 including gemin A, B, C, D, E and F and triterpenes including 2-hydroxyoleanolic acid, 2
 hydroxylursolic acid, 2,19-dihydroxy-ursolic acid, 2-a,19-a-dihydroxy-3-oxo-12-ursen-28
 oic acid, ursolic acid, epimolic acid, maslinic acid, euscaphic acid, tormentic acid, 28-0-D
 glucoside of tormentic acid.
 [00411    In one embodiment, the extracts, fractions, and compounds of the invention are
 obtained by extraction, using water and/or of an organic solvent, from crude plant material
 comprises the following stages:
                                                  8

        1.      Extraction by addition to the plant material, of water and/or of organic
                solvent(s), by subjecting the whole to a treatment such as
                maceration/lixiviation, ultrasonics or microwaves;
        2.      Delipidation before or after the extraction stage using a solvent of petroleum
                ether, hexane or chloroform type;
        3.      Optionally, additional extraction of the extract recovered by an organic solvent
                of ethyl acetate or ethyl ether type,
        4.      Optionally, concentration of the crude extract obtained, and, if desired, its
                lyophilization.
[0042]     According one aspect, considering the enrichment that it allows to be attained, the
crude extract may be subjected to a purification stage by chromatography. In one
embodiment, centrifugal partition chromatography (CPC) is used. This technique is in
particular described by A.P. FOUCAULT, Ed., Centrifugal Partition Chromatography,
Chromatographic Science Series, Marcel Dekker Inc., 1995, 68, or W.D. CONWAY, Ed.,
Countercurrent Chromatography apparatus theory and applications, VCH Publishers Inc.,
1990. CPC is based on the partition of the solutes between two non-miscible liquid phases
prepared by the mixture of two or more solvents or solutions. One of the two phases is kept
stationary by a centrifugal force. The solvents, their proportions and the flow rate chosen
closely depend both on the stability of the stationary phase within the CPC column and the
actual pressure.
[00431     A person skilled in the art will therefore choose the most appropriate solvent or
solvents depending on the nature of the purified extract desired. Thus, crude extracts and
enriched fractions are therefore available containing, as majority constituents, any of the
identified compounds from OEGJ. These different extracts, namely crude or enriched also
fall within the scope of the invention. The implementation of additional separation stages
allows isolation of these extracts enriched with one or more compounds. These separations
can be carried out on fractions enriched from a crude extract or on the crude extract itself by
using mixtures of appropriate solvents according to the proportions which are suitable for the
 sought separation.
 Methods and Compositions for Increasing Lifespan or Health Span
 [00441    The present invention is based on the discovery that OEGJ not only enhanced the
 survival capacities of important cells, such as neurons and cardiac myocytes by protecting
 them from ischemia and stresses, but also up-regulated the expressions of cell survival
                                                   9

factors, such as Aktl, Bcl2. EGF, VEGF, NFKB, and telomerase. Furthermore, the present
inventors discovered that OEGJ can promote neovascularization in important ischemic
organs, such as heart and brain and stimulate cardiac and neuronal regenerations in damaged
hearts and brains. Given the positive implications derived from these experiments, OEGJ can
effectively prevent or even reverse, in some degree, aging, and enhance lifespan or quality of
life.
[0045]      Generally, this invention relates to a method for improving age-related physiological
disorders and extending lifespan in mammals as well as improving the quality of life of
elderly mammals. In accordance with one aspect, the invention provides methods of
increasing the longevity and/or enhancing the vitality in a subject in need thereof, which
comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound, composition,
fraction or extract described herein. In some embodiments, a methanol/ethanol extract of
 Geumjaponicum, its active fractions, and isolated compounds significantly increase the
activity of telomerase in treated cells/tissues and remarkably increase the lifespan of
mammalian subjects. Agents described herein can significantly increase the vitality and
 survival potency of new born mammalian subjects. The treated mammalian subjects are
more active and appear significantly healthier. Life-threatening stress-bearing ability of
treated mammalian subjects also significantly increases compared with the non-treated
 control subjects.
 100461     In one aspect, the methods for the increasing the longevity and/or enhancing the
 quality of life include administering to a mammal in need thereof agents, fractions, and/or
 extracts and compounds, and derivatives of such compounds from a variety of plants
 including Geumjaponicum and Xian he cao.
 [00471     In another aspect, an agent for increasing the longevity and/or enhancing the quality
 of life is part of a pharmaceutical composition containing one or more excipients, carriers, or
 fillers. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is packaged in unit dosage form.
 The unit dosage form is effective in inducing increasing the longevity and/or enhancing the
 vitality and survival potency in the subject.
 100481     In various embodiments of the invention, suitable in vitro or in vivo assays are
 performed to determine the effect of an agent (extracts, fractions, and compounds) of the
 invention and whether its administration is indicated for the increasing the longevity and/or
                                                   10

increasing the quality of life of mammalian subjects. In some embodiments, in vitro models
are used to assess the effects of an agent on a subject. Suitable models include, but are not
limited to, a stress resistance assay in which C. elegans are exposed to a lethal temperature at
27'C in addition to the test agent. The effects of the agent in mediating the stress resistance
in the organisms are investigated and compared to suitable controls.
[00491     In some embodiments, in vivo models of longevity are used to assess the effects of
an agent on a subject. Suitable models include a lifespan assay in which age synchronous C.
elegans worms are prepared and grown on agar supplemented with the test agent. Another
model is the short lifespan mouse in which a single klotho gene mutation results in multiple
age-related disorders. The effects of the agent in mediating the age-related disorders in the
animal subject are investigated and compared to suitable controls.
[00501     In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for increasing the resistance of
a cell to stress, or preventing apoptosis of a cell, by contacting the cell with plant extracts,
active fractions, and/or compounds of the invention.
100511     The methods described herein may be used to increase the amount of time that cells,
particularly primary cells (i.e., cells obtained from an organism, e.g., a human), may be kept
alive in a cell culture. Embryonic stem (ES) cells and pluripotent cells, and cells
differentiated therefrom, may also be treated with plants, extracts, active fractions, and/or
compounds of the invention to keep the cells, or progeny thereof, in culture for longer periods
of time. Such cells can also be used for transplantation into a subject, e.g., after ex vivo
modification.
 Diabetes
 [00521     In another aspect, plants, extracts, active fractions, and/or compounds of the
 invention may be used for treating or preventing a metabolic disorder, such as insulin
resistance, a pre-diabetic state, type I and II diabetes, and/or complications thereof.
 [00531     Diabetes refers to a metabolic disorder in which a person has a high blood sugar
 level, either because the body cannot produce enough insulin or has a decreased ability to
 utilize insulin. Insulin, produced in the pancreas, is a hormone that converts glucose into
 energy at the cellular level. Glucose is essential to our health since it is the main form of
 energy for cells in the muscle and other tissues. However, abnormal high level of glucose in
                                                    11

the blood, a condition also known as hyperglycemia, leads to acute and chronic vascular
disease complications, such as blindness, kidney failure, coronary heart disease, stroke and
amputations (Pankaj, 2007).
[00541    Type 1 and type 2 diabetes are the two most common forms of diabetes. Type I
diabetes, most commonly found during childhood or adolescence, is primarily due to the loss
of insulin-producing    -cells in islets of Langerhans in the pancreas that in turn results in
insulin deficiency. A T-cell mediated autoimmune response against 1-cells is the main
underlying mechanism in type 1 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes, which accounts for 90% of all the
diabetes cases, is mainly resulted from insulin resistance and 1-cell dysfunction (Lin & Sun,
2010). In opposite to type 1 diabetes, insulin levels in type 2 diabetes patients, especially in
the early stage, are very high as the body attempts to compensate for insulin resistance.
However, when the disease progresses, even the higher than normal insulin levels fail to keep
the plasma glucose at the normal levels due to insulin resistance and increase hepatic glucose
production. Along the course of the disease, decrease of insulin production, probably resulted
from a progressive deterioration in 1-cell function and accelerated 1-cell apoptosis, further
aggravate the disease condition (Wajchenberg BL, 2007).
 10055]    Our recent studies have shown that OEGJ can significantly promote the growth of
new blood vessels in the muscles, heart and brain. Both OEGJ-induced angiogenesis and
muscle regeneration will enhance glucose assumption in the body leading to lower blood
 glucose level in diabetes patients. Moreover, if OEGJ-induced cell regeneration, found in
heart, brain and muscle, also exists in the pancreas, OEGJ treatment could compensate for the
 loss of 1-cells. Therefore, administration of a plants, extracts, fractions, and/or compounds
 described herein may provide effect treatments for diabetic patients.
 [00561    In an exemplary embodiment, plants, extracts, active fractions, and/or compounds of
 the invention may be administered as a combination therapy for treating or preventing
 diabetes. For example, one or more plants, extracts, active fractions, and/or compounds of the
 invention may be administered in combination with one or more anti-diabetic agents.
 Exemplary anti-diabetic agents include, for example, an aldose reductase inhibitor, a
 glycogen phosphorylase inhibitor, a sorbitol dehydrogenase inhibitor, a protein tyrosine
 phosphatase I B inhibitor, a dipeptidyl protease inhibitor, insulin (including orally
 bioavailable insulin preparations), an insulin mimetic, metformin, acarbose, a peroxisome
 proliferator-activated receptor-y (PPAR-y) ligand such as troglitazone, rosaglitazone,
                                                  12

pioglitazone or GW-1929, a sulfonylurea, glipazide, glyburide, or chlorpropamide wherein
the amounts of the first and second compounds result in a therapeutic effect. Other anti
diabetic agents include a glucosidase inhibitor, a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), insulin, a
PPAR a/.gamma. dual agonist, a meglitimide and an P2 inhibitor. In an exemplary
embodiment, an anti-diabetic agent may be a dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DP-IV or DPP-IV)
inhibitor, such as, for example LAF237 from Novartis (NVP DPP728; 1-[[[2-[(5
cyanopyridin-2-yl)amino] ethyl] amino] acetyl]-2-cyano-(S)-pyrrol- idine) or MK-04301 from
Merck (see e.g., Hughes et al., Biochemistry 38: 11597-603 (1999)).
Inflammatory Diseases, Wound Healing and Bedsores
 [00571    In other aspects, plants, extracts, active fractions, and/or compounds of the invention
can be used to treat or prevent a disease or disorder associated with inflammation. Plants,
extracts, active fractions, and/or compounds of the invention may be administered prior to the
onset of, at, or after the initiation of inflammation. When used prophylactically, the
 compounds are preferably provided in advance of any inflammatory response or symptom.
Administration of the compounds may prevent or attenuate inflammatory responses or
 symptoms.
 [00581    Inflammation is a complex biological process by which the body reacts to infection,
 injury or irritation (Medzhitov, 2008). Inflammation is a defensive mechanism to protect the
 body from various disease-causing foreign objects, such as bacteria, viruses and parasites.
 Although acute inflammation is a prerequisite for healing wound and infection, prolonged
 inflammation, also known as chronic inflammation, due to the inability of the immune system
 to get rid of foreign objects, could lead to a host of diseases including rheumatoid arthritis,
 atherosclerosis, asthma, and inflammatory bowel disease (Ku et al., 2009; Hamid & Tulic,
 2009; Kaser et al., 2010). Recently, links between chronic inflammation and central nervous
 system diseases, cancer, and heart attacks have also been proposed (Kang & McGavern,
 2009; Grivennikov et al., 2010). Chronic inflammatory diseases, afflicting millions of people
 worldwide, is hard to treat and there are still no drugs for cure. Many drugs used for treating
 chronic inflammatory diseases tend to have severe side-effects including stomach bleeding,
 diabetes and high blood pressure.
  [00591    In certain embodiments, one or more plants, extracts, active fractions, and/or
  compounds of the invention may be taken alone or in combination with other compounds
                                                    13

useful for treating or preventing inflammation. Exemplary anti-inflammatory agents include,
for example, steroids (e.g., cortisol, cortisone, fludrocortisone, prednisone, 6c0
methylprednisone, triamcinolone, betamethasone or dexamethasone), nonsteroidal
antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS (e.g., aspirin, acetaminophen, tolmetin, ibuprofen,
mefenamic acid, piroxicam, nabumetone, rofecoxib, celecoxib, etodolac or nimesulide). In
another embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is an antibiotic (e.g., vancomycin, penicillin,
amoxicillin, ampicillin, cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, cefixime, rifampinmetronidazole,
doxycycline or streptomycin). In another embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is a PDE4
inhibitor (e.g., roflumilast or rolipram). In another embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is
an antihistamine (e.g., cyclizine, hydroxyzine, promethazine or diphenhydramine). In another
embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is an anti-malarial (e.g., artemisinin, artemether,
artsunate, chloroquine phosphate, mefloquine hydrochloride, doxycycline hyclate, proguanil
hydrochloride, atovaquone or halofantrine). In one embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is
drotrecogin alfa.
  [0060]    Wound healing is an intricate and dynamic process after accidental injury or
surgical intervention in which the body repairs itself and restores cellular structures and tissue
layers. There are three phases of normal wound healing: the inflammatory phase, the
proliferative phase, and the remodeling phase (Stadelmann et al., 1998). Agiogenesis, in the
proliferative phase, is vital to wound healing. During angiogenesis, new blood vessels are
 formed by vascular endothelial cells.
 100611    Bedsores, also known as pressure sores or pressure ulcers, are lesions resulted from
 mostly unrelieved pressure (Bluestein D & Javaheri A, 2008). Although they can affect any
 part of the body, bedsores are found mostly in body portions over bony or cartilaginous areas
 such as knees, ankles and elbows, especially the skin on buttocks, hips and heels. People who
 are at high risk of developing bedsores are those who are paralyzed or those who are unable
 to change body positions without help. Bedsores could be fatal if not caught early and is one
 of the leading iatrogenic causes of death in developed countries. Bedsores develop when
 persistent pressure cuts off circulation to vulnerable parts of the body. The affected tissue
 dies eventually due to inadequate blood supply. Therefore, agents that can improve blood
 flow would be useful in treating bedsores.
                                                  14

Ocular Disorders
[0062]     One aspect of the present invention is a method for inhibiting, reducing or otherwise
treating ocular disorders, including cataracts and presbyopia by administering to a patient a
therapeutic dosage of plant, extract, active fraction or compound of the invention, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, prodrug or a metabolic derivative thereof.
[0063]     In some embodiments, OEGJ is effective in treating certain ocular disorders,
especially age-related and degenerative ocular disorders, such as cataract and presbyopia. A
cataract is an opaque or cloudy area in the lens of the eye. Depending on its size and location,
cataract interferes with normal vision from slight opacity to complete blindness. Age-related
cataract is the most common type of cataract and affect 60% in those aged 65 to 74 and 91%
in those aged 75 to 85. According to the World Health Organization, age-related cataract is
responsible for ~50% of blindness worldwide and is the leading cause of vision loss among
people over 55 (Asbell et al., 2005). It is believed that denaturation and clustering of lens
proteins are the underlying cause of cataracts. On the other hand, presbyopia is also an age
related eye condition where the crystalline lens of the eye loses its flexibility progressively,
making it difficult to focus on close objects with age (Charman, 2008).
 [0064]    Another aspect of the invention is the treatment, including inhibition and
prophylactic treatment, of age related ocular diseases include cataracts, presbyopia, and the
 like, by administering to the subject in need of such treatment a therapeutic dosage of a plant,
 extract, active fraction or compound of the invention.
  [0065]     In one embodiment, a combination drug regimen may include drugs or compounds
 for the treatment or prevention of ocular disorders or secondary conditions associated with
 these conditions. Thus, a combination drug regimen may include one or more plant, extract,
 active fraction or compound of the invention and one or more therapeutic agents for the
 treatment of an ocular disorder. For example, one or more plant, extract, active fraction or
 compound of the invention can be combined with an effective amount of one or more of an
 agent.
 Formulations and Dosages of Pharmaceutical Compositions.
 100661     In various embodiments of the invention, suitable in vitro or in vivo assays are
 performed to determine the effect of an agent (extracts, fractions and compounds) of the
                                                  15

invention and whether its administration is indicated for treatment of the affected disease or
medical condition in a subject. Examples of these assays are described above in connection
with a specific disease or medical treatment.
[00671     Typically, an effective amount of the compositions of the present invention,
sufficient for achieving a therapeutic or prophylactic effect, range from about 0.000001 mg
per kilogram body weight per day to about 10,000 mg per kilogram body weight per day.
Suitably, the dosage ranges are from about 0.0001 mg per kilogram body weight per day to
about 2,000 mg per kilogram body weight per day. An exemplary treatment regime entails
administration once per day or once a week or once a month. The agent usually administered
on multiple occasions. Intervals between single dosages can be daily, weekly, monthly or
yearly. Alternatively, the agents can be administered as a sustained release formulation, in
which case less frequent administration is required. Dosage and frequency vary depending
on the half-life of the agent in the subject. The dosage and frequency of administration can
vary depending on whether the treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. In prophylactic
applications, a relatively low dosage is administered at relatively infrequent intervals over a
long period of time. Some subjects continue to receive treatment for the rest of their lives. In
therapeutic applications, a relatively high dosage at relatively short intervals is sometimes
required until progression of the disease is reduced or terminated, and preferably until the
subject shows partial or complete amelioration of symptoms of disease. Thereafter, the
patent can be administered a prophylactic regime.
 100681    Toxicity. Suitably, an effective amount (e.g., dose) of an agent described herein will
provide therapeutic benefit without causing substantial toxicity to the subject. Toxicity of the
 agent described herein can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell
 cultures or experimental animals, e.g., by determining the LD 50 (the dose lethal to 50% of the
population) or the LD100 (the dose lethal to 100% of the population). The dose ratio between
 toxic and therapeutic effect is the therapeutic index. The data obtained from these cell culture
 assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a dosage range that is not toxic for use
 in human. The dosage of the agent described herein lies preferably within a range of
 circulating concentrations that include the effective dose with little or no toxicity. The
 dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of
 administration utilized. The exact formulation, route of administration and dosage can be
                                                  16

chosen by the individual physician in view of the subject's condition. See, e.g., Fingl et al.,
In: The PharmacologicalBasis of Therapeutics, Ch. 1 (1975).
[0069]     According to the methods of the present invention, the agents can be incorporated
into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration. In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutical compositions may comprise purified or substantially purified extracts of
Geumjaponicum and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier in a form suitable for
administration to a subject. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions may
comprise Pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers are determined in part by the particular
composition being administered, as well as by the particular method used to administer the
composition. Accordingly, there is a wide variety of suitable formulations of pharmaceutical
compositions for administering the compositions (see, e.g., Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Mack Publishing Co., Easton, PA       1 8th ed., 1990). The pharmaceutical
compositions are generally formulated as sterile, substantially isotonic and in full compliance
with all Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.
 [00701    The terms "pharmaceutically-acceptable," "physiologically-tolerable," and
grammatical variations thereof, as they refer to compositions, carriers, diluents and reagents,
are used interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of administration to or
upon a subject without the production of undesirable physiological effects to a degree that
would prohibit administration of the composition. For example, "pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient" means an excipient that is useful in preparing a pharmaceutical
composition that is generally safe, non-toxic, and desirable, and includes excipients that are
 acceptable for veterinary use as well as for human pharmaceutical use. Such excipients can
be solid, liquid, semisolid, or, in the case of an aerosol composition, gaseous.
 "Pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and esters" means salts and esters that are
 pharmaceutically-acceptable and have the desired pharmacological properties. Such salts
 include salts that can be formed where acidic protons present in the agent are capable of
 reacting with inorganic or organic bases. Suitable inorganic salts include those formed with
 the alkali metals, e.g., sodium and potassium, magnesium, calcium, and aluminum. Suitable
 organic salts include those formed with organic bases such as the amine bases, e.g.,
 ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, N-methylglucamine, and the
 like. Such salts also include acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids (e.g.,
                                                   17

hydrochloric and hydrobromic acids) and organic acids (e.g., acetic acid, citric acid, maleic
acid, and the alkane- and arene-sulfonic acids such as methanesulfonic acid and
benzenesulfonic acid). Pharmaceutically-acceptable esters include esters formed from
carboxy, sulfonyloxy, and phosphonoxy groups present in the agent, e.g., C1 .6 alkyl esters.
When there are two acidic groups present, a pharmaceutically-acceptable salt or ester can be a
mono-acid-mono-salt or ester or a di-salt or ester; and similarly where there are more than
two acidic groups present, some or all of such groups can be salified or esterified. The agent
named in this invention can be present in unsalified or unesterified form, or in salified and/or
esterified form, and the naming of such agent is intended to include both the original
(unsalified and unesterified) compound and its pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and esters.
Also, certain agents named in this invention can be present in more than one stereoisomeric
form, and the naming of such agent is intended to include all single stereoisomers and all
mixtures (whether racemic or otherwise) of such stereoisomers. A person of ordinary skill in
the art, would have no difficulty determining the appropriate timing, sequence and dosages of
administration for particular drugs and compositions of the present invention.
100711     Suitable examples of such carriers or diluents include, but are not limited to, water,
saline, Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, and 5% human serum albumin. Liposomes and
non-aqueous vehicles such as fixed oils may also be used. The use of such media and
compounds for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar
as any conventional media or compound is incompatible with the agent, use thereof in the
compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated
into the compositions.
10072]     A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with
its intended route of administration. The compositions of the present invention can be
administered by parenteral, topical, intravenous, oral, subcutaneous, intraarterial, intradermal,
transdermal, rectal, intracranial, intraperitoneal, intranasal; intramuscular route or as
inhalants. The agent can optionally be administered in combination with other agents that are
at least partly effective in treating various diseases.
 [00731    Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral, intradermal, or subcutaneous
application can include the following components: a sterile diluent such as water for
injection, saline solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene glycol or
other synthetic solvents; antibacterial compounds such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens;
                                                  18

antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating compounds such as
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA); buffers such as acetates, citrates or phosphates, and
compounds for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The pH can
be adjusted with acids or bases, such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The
parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules, disposable syringes or multiple dose
vials made of glass or plastic.
[00741    Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous
solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous
preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration,
suitable carriers include physiological saline, bacteriostatic water, Cremophor    ELTM  (BASF,
Parsippany, N.J.) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In all cases, the composition must be
sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringeability exists. It must be stable under
the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating
action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or
dispersion medium containing, e.g., water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol, propylene glycol,
and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper
fluidity can be maintained, e.g., by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance
of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention
of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal
compounds, e.g., parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like.
In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic compounds, e.g., sugars, polyalcohols
such as manitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the
injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition a compound
which delays absorption, e.g., aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
 [00751    Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the agents in the
required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
 enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
 prepared by incorporating the binding agent into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic
 dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the
 case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, methods of
 preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying that yields a powder of the active ingredient
 plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. The
                                                  19

agents of this invention can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant
preparation which can be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained or pulsatile
release of the active ingredient.
[00761    Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can
be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral
therapeutic administration, the binding agent can be incorporated with excipients and used in
the form of tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid
carrier for use as a mouthwash, wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally
and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding
compounds, and/or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The
tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients, or
compounds of a similar nature: a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or
gelatin; an excipient such as starch or lactose, a disintegrating compound such as alginic acid,
Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as
colloidal silicon dioxide; a sweetening compound such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring
compound such as peppermint, methyl salicylate, or orange flavoring.
[00771     In one embodiment, the agents are prepared with carriers that will protect the agent
against rapid elimination from the body, such as a controlled release formulation, including
implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers
can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen,
polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be
apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from
Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Liposomal suspensions (including
liposomes targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens) can also be
used as pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers. These can be prepared according to methods
known to those skilled in the art, e.g., as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811.
                                            EXAMPLES
 [00781    The present technology is further illustrated by the following examples, which
 should not be construed as limiting in any way.
                                                  20

Example 1 - Identification of composition comprised of natural compounds for enhancing
survival capacity and telomerase activity.
100791    A bio-assay guided strategy was used for screening plant constituents to identify the
composition of compounds enhancing the activity of telomerase. During the screening of the
plant extract, an organic extract from Guemjaponicum (OEGJ) was identified to significantly
enhance the survival capacity and telomerase activity. Briefly, 10 kg dried Geumjaponicum
collected from Anhui Province was cut into small pieces, which was percolated with 90%
methanol/ethanol (10 x volume) at room temperature for 6 days. The extract was electro
sprayed to yield a brown powder.
[0080]     When the extract (150 pg/ml) was applied to a mesenchymal stem cell culture, it
was found that OEGJ treatment could promote the survival potency against stresses, such as
hypoxia. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that some of cell survival-associated genes, such as
Aktl, Bcl2, VEGF, EGF and NFKB, were up-regulated. Therefore, the OEGJ was further
tested in the following studies.
Example 2 - Enhancement of survival potential of the cultured cardiac myocytes.
[00811     Cell function, including cell division, differentiation, aging and death, is controlled
by a multitude of cell signaling pathways. The development of some diseases is also
dependent upon these cell functions, especially on cell aging and cell death, the probability of
which increases with age. For example, loss of cardiac myocytes by apoptosis leads to heart
failure and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic (survival) signals or over-expression of pro
apoptotic signals is closely involved in disease development.
 [0082]    First, we tested whether the OEGJ could enhance the survival potential or prevent
cell death in cultured cardiac myocytes. The cultured cardiac myocytes were subjected to
hypoxia by incubation in an environmental chamber. The chamber oxygen concentration was
maintained at 10 mmHg for 24 hours. It was shown that the OEGJ treatment from the start of
hypoxia until the end of hypoxia significantly increased the expression of some survival
 factors, such as Aktl, Bcl2, EGF, VEGF, NFKB, and significantly prevented cell death
 against hypoxia compared with the non-treated control myocytes. The number of apoptotic
 cells increased with prolonged hypoxia in the non-treated control myocytes. By contrast,
 OEGJ treatment increased the survival potential of the cells and decreased the number of
 apoptotic cells (P<0.01).
                                                  21

Example 3- OEGJ increased the survival in C.elegans.
10083]      To test whether the OEGJ would enhance the survival potency or life expectancy in
C. elegans, wild type N2 C.elegans was used. The C. elegans were synchronized by
bleaching and divided into two groups on agar plates. The plates were 60 mm top-coating
dishes (about 10 ml media in solid form). The worms were grown on NGM agar plates
streaked with Escherichia coli strain OP50 in forced-air incubators that maintain temperature
to 0.5*C. About 500 worms/dish were treated with OEGJ (150 ptg/ml, 600pl of the drug
solution onto one dish each air dried in hood) and the worms in control group were treated
with equivalent solvent. C. elegans strain N2 can induce dauer larva formation in wild-type
strains of C. elegans between 20*C and 25'C. Above 25*C to 26*C is a lethal temperature to
C. elegans. In order to test the survival potency of the OEGJ-treated worms, the culture
temperature was increased up to 27 *C. Pictures were taken on day 7 & 14 (worms were
exposed at 20'C when taking pictures).
 [0084]     It was found that after incubation of the N2 worms in non-treated control group at
27"C for 7 days, some of the worms died while some of them were still alive, but no young
worms were observed (FIG 1:Ct-7). By contrast, in OEGJ-treated worms incubated under the
same conditions for 7 days, almost no worms died and more interestingly many young worms
were observed (FIG. 1:OEGJ-7). Furthermore, after 14 days incubation at 27"C, all N2
worms in non-treated control group died (FIG. I:Ct-14). In sharp comparison, although many
of the adult worms died in the OEGJ treated group, quite many young worms were observed
 still alive (FIG. 1:OEGJ-14). These results indicated that the tough and lethal temperature
 environment not only sterilized the N2 worms, but also killed all worms within two weeks.
 By contrast, OEGJ treatment not only enhanced the survival potency of the worms at their
 lethal temperature environment, but also kept their ability to produce offspring.
 [0085]     OEGJ increasedthe mean health span in C. elegans. To test whether the OEGJ
 stimulated up-regulation of cell survival associated genes and enhanced survival potency in
 worms, C.elegans of wild type N2, daf-2 and daf-16 mutants were synchronized by bleaching
 and divided into two groups on agar plates respectively. The daf-2 gene encodes an insulin
 like receptor in the worm C. elegans. Mutations in daf-2 have been shown to double the
 lifespan of the worms (Jennie B. et al., 1995; J. Apfeld & C. Kenyon, 1998). The gene is
 known to regulate reproductive development, aging, resistance to oxidative stress,
 thermotolerance, resistance to hypoxia, and also resistance to bacterial pathogens (M.S Gami
                                                   22

& C.A. Wolkow, 2006). The daf-2 is the only insulin/IGF-1-like receptor in the worm.
Insulin/IGF- 1-like signaling is conserved from worms to humans. The daf-2 acts to
negatively regulate the fork-head transcription factor daf-16 through a phosphorylation
cascade. Researches revealed that daf-16 is required for daf-2-dependent lifespan extension
and'dauer formation. When not phosphorylated, daf-16 is active and present in the nucleus.
The daf-16 plays an important part in determining the rate of aging and average lifespan of
the C. elegans and its close evolutionary cousins (S.T. Henderson & T.E. Johnson, 2001).
The daf-16 is found in many other animals, including humans. The daf-16 is part of a group
of genes that drive the biological processes involved in aging, immunity and responses to
stresses.
 [00861    The synchronized Ls of N2, daf-2 and daf-16 worms (about 500 worms/dish) at
 15"C were grown at 20"C on NG agar plates streaked with Escherichiacoli strain OP50 in
forced-air incubators that maintain temperature to 0.5'C. The worms of the test groups were
treated with OEGJ (150 ptg/ml, 600pl of the drug solution onto one dish and each air dried in
hood) and the worms in control groups were treated with equivalent solvent. Another
exceptional experiment was to synchronize LI of daf-2 at 20 "C and grow them at 20 *C as
well.
 [00871    As shown in FIG. 2, more live worms in the OEGJ-treated group were observed at
 almost all checking points compared to those of the non-treated group. All worms of the non
treated group died on day 38. However, about 5% of worms of OEGJ-treated group were still
 alive (FIG. 2). The remaining worms of OEGJ treated group died on day 42, and the average
 lifespan was about 10% longer than that of non-treated control worms.
 [00881    To test the effect of OEGJ treatment on the lifespan of daf-2 mutant C. elegans,
 which has an almost doubled lifespan than the wild type worms, daf-2 worms was tested with
 OEGJ. It was shown that more live worms in the OEGJ-treated group were found at almost
 all observing points compared to that of non-treated group (FIG. 3). Approximately 5%
 worms remained alive on day 56 in non-treated control, however, about 10% of worms of
 OEGJ-treated group were alive (FIG. 3).
 100891    To further test the effect of OEGJ treatment on the worms with significant shorter
 lifespan, daf-16 mutant C. elegans was used. It was found that about 77% worms in the non
 treated control group died on day 12 (FIG. 4). By comparison, about 50% worms of the
                                                 23

OEGJ treated group were found alive on day 12 (FIG. 4). About 27% more worms died in
non-treated group than the OEGJ treated group, indicating the health span is significantly
increased by OEGJ treatment.
[00901     To still further test the effect of OEGJ treatment on the lifespan of daf-2 C. elegans
in different conditions, the daf-2 worms were both synchronized and grown at 20"C. It was
found that about 58% of worms in the OEGJ-treated group remained alive on day 21 (FIG.
5). By comparison, about 58% of worms in the non-treated control group died by day 21
(FIG. 5). About 5-15% more worms in OEGJ-treated group remained alive at all checking
points, indicating the increased health span and lifespan.
Example 4 - OEGJ-treatment induced longevity and increased activity of telomerase in mice.
100911     The lifespan of Kunming (KM) mice is usually 582.5  177.73 days with normal
feeding. KM mice (n=16) were randomly divided into two groups. The mice in test group
(n=9, 6 months old) were given OEGJ (200 mg/kg/daily in their food) for two months. The
mice in control group (n=7) at 6 months age were given sucrose (200mg/kg/daily in their
food) for the same period. Then the mice were housed in an environmentally controlled
condition with a 12-h light/dark cycle. All animals had free access to standard rodent pellet
food and water.
 [00921    TERT (telomerase reverse transcriptase) is the catalytic subunit of telomerase. RT
PCR based on TaqMan@ fluorescence methodology was used to quantify the full range of
mTERT (mouse TERT) mRNA copy number. During the extension phase of the PCR, the
probe hybridized to the target sequence and was then cleaved due to the 5' to 3' exonuclease
 activity of Taq polymerase. The increase in the fluorescence signal of the reporter was
proportional to the amount of specific PCR products, providing highly accurate and
reproducible quantification. The number of PCR cycles to reach the fluorescence threshold
 was the cycle threshold (Ct). The Ct value for each sample was proportional to the log of the
 initial amount of input cDNA. By plotting the Ct value of an unknown sample on the
 standard curve, the amount of target sequences in the sample could be calculated. To
 normalize the mTERT mRNA expression for sample-to-sample differences in RNA input,
 RNA quality, and reverse transcriptase efficiency, the housekeeping gene GAPDH was
 amplified. According to each standard curve, the copy numbers of GAPDH and mTERT,
 respectively, were determined. The ratio between copy numbers of mTERT and GAPDH
                                                  24

represented the normalized mTERT for each sample and could be compared with that of
other samples (Artandi SE et al.2000).
[00931     Four mice from the OEGJ-treated group and two mice from non-treated control
group were sacrificed after two months administration of OEGJ. The total RNA was prepared
from heart using Trizol (Invitrogen) respectively. The GC 1 cell line was used as the positive
control for the experiment. Reverse transcription was performed with random hexamers with
Superscript II (Invitrogen) following the manufacture's instructions. Real time PCR was
performed for two dilutions in duplicates on a BioRad MJ Mini Real Time PCR. For each
mRNA sample, Tert expression was corrected by the GAPDH mRNA content. The program
was an initial incubation of 2 min at 50'C, followed by 10 min at 95'C and 40 cycles of 15 s
95'C, 2 min 15 s 68'C, 15 s 95'C, 20 s 63'C, 15 s 95*C. In each cycle the melting point of
the product was determined. The PCRs employed a set of primers specific for the Tert gene.
 [0094]    The results showed that positive signals of 18s and GAPDH endogenous control
were observed in all samples. Positive signals of mTERT were observed in all four OEGJ
treated heart samples and GC I cells. There were very low or almost no mTERT expressions
in non-treated control heart samples. All four treated samples showed ~ 2      4.     folds higher
mTERT expressions than the non-treated control samples (FIG. 6). The indication of this
result provided the possibility of controlled induction of TERT expression by OEGJ
 treatment.
 [0095]    To test whether the enhanced expression of cell survival genes and TERT would be
 translated to extended lifespan, we continued the experiment with above mentioned OEGJ
 treated mice. It was found that the activities of the treated mice were more active and
 appeared significantly healthier. Life-threatening stress bearing ability of the treated mice
 was also significantly enhanced compared with that in the non-treated control animals.
 Accordingly, the average lifespan of the five remaining OEGJ-treated mice was averagely
 763  108 days. By contrast the lifespan of the remaining 5 non-treated mice was averagely
 610  158 days. In summary, the.OEGJ treated mice enjoyed 17-25% longer lifespan than
 non-treated control (FIG. 6).
                                                 25

Example 5 - OEGJ-induced improvement in age-related disorders in Senescence-Accelerated
Mouse.
[00961    The Senescence-Accelerated Mouse (SAM) strain was established in the
Department of Senescence Biology, Kyoto University, Japan as a novel murine model of
senescence acceleration and age-associated disorders. In the present study, short lived mice
(SAMP 10) were used. The SAMP 10 mouse shows accelerated aging. The most characteristic
age-related change in SAMP 10 is brain atrophy, particularly in the frontal portion of the
cerebrum, frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cerebral cortices. The large neurons in
these areas typically shrank and/or disappeared in aged SAMP 10 (Shimada et al, 1992). All
these characteristic pathological phenotypes are similar to age-associated disorders often
observed in elder humans. SAMP10 mice have a median survival time of 333 days (Takeda et
al, 1991).
100971     When the SAMP10 mice were 4 months old, the mice in test group (n=16) were
treated with OEGJ (400 mg/kg/day in H 2 0 suspension) through intragastric administration
daily for 4 weeks. The mice in non-treated control group (n= 16) were equivalently
administered with water. One month after termination of the treatment, when the mice were 6
months old, Morris water maze (1.8M) was used to access the spatial learning and memory
capacity in all mice of both groups. Animals were trained 5 times a day for 4 days. Typically,
time spent in finding the platform was used to assess the strength of the learning ability and
memory of the mouse for the platform location. The time spent prior to finding the hidden
platform, also known as escape latency, was recorded. It was shown that OEGJ-treated
 SAMP 10 mice exhibited a significantly shorter escape latency compared to the non-treated
mice (P < 0.001).
 [00981    The cerebral blood flow (CBF) of the experimental mice was studied with a 12
 MHz linear probe of the Toshiba ultrasound scanner after 4 weeks OEGJ treatment. To rule
 out the possibility of vessel dilation effect of OEGJ, after 4 weeks OEGJ treatment, the CBF
 was determined 2 weeks after the OEGJ treatment. The average of 3 repeated measurements
 was taken as the CBF. It was found that the CBF in OEGJ-treated mice was on average 15%
 higher than that in non-treated control mice. Interestingly, the net weight of the brain in
 OEGJ mice was on average about 15% heavier than that of non-treated mice by the time
 when the mice were sacrificed after water maze test. Furthermore, the blood pressure in non
 treated mice was about 135 mmHg, which was about 13% higher than that in normal mice. In
                                                  26

comparison, the blood pressure of OEGJ treated SAMP 10 mice was about 10% lower than
that of non-treated counterparts. These results suggest that OEGJ treatment induced new
collateral vessel formation in the brain of the mice that reduced the peripheral resistance of
arterioles or micro-vessels so that significant more blood flow to the brain could be achieved.
[00991     In order to confirm the physical basis for the increased CBF in OEGJ-treated
animals, brains from the experimental mice sacrificed after CBF measurement were removed,
fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin. Thin sections (5 tm) were cut from each slide
and stained with H&E staining. The vascular densities were determined on the histology
sections by counting the numbers of vessels within the cortex of frontal lobe and around
hippocampus regions. Six random and non-overlapping high power fields (HPFs) (40x)
within the frontal lobe or hippocampus were used for counting all the vessels in each section.
The number of vessels in each HPF was averaged and expressed as the number of vessels per
HPF. Vascular counts were performed by two investigators in a blind fashion.
 [01001    The result of vessel counting showed that the numbers of vessels are about
68.616.3/HPF in the regions of cortex in frontal lobe and 46.813.2/HPF around the regions
of hippocampus in non-treated control mice (FIG. 7). By contrast, the numbers of vessels are
 about 83.8 12.9/HPF in cortex region of frontal lobe and 61.711.2/HPF around
hippocampus region in OEGJ treated mice (FIG. 7).
 [01011    To investigate whether OEGJ treatment induced improvement of microcirculation in
brain would bring about neural regeneration to replace the damaged or died neurons, thin
 sections (5 ptm) were cut from each slide of brain obtained from experimental mice and
 immunohistochemically stained with specific antibodies against Ki67. On microscope
 examination of the sections, it was found that OEGJ treatment not only enhanced the growth
 of new blood vessels in the regions of cortex and hippocampus, but also induced neuronal
 regeneration in these regions (FIG. 8). By contrast, no significant growth of new collateral
 vessels in the brain was identified and neither the regeneration of new neuron cells in the
 non-treated control brains (FIG. 8). The newly regenerated neuron-like cells were positively
 stained with antibodies specific to Ki67 (FIG. 8) indicating that they are newly regenerated
 neuronal cells.
 [01021     In sum, these observations imply that OEGJ not only stimulated the substantial
 growth of new collateral vessels in the brain of SAM mice resulting in improved CBF, but
                                                 27

also induced neuronal regeneration in the cortex of frontal lobe and hippocampus regions that
are responsible for learning and cognitive abilities, which may be the physical basis for the
substantially improved performance in water maze exploration tests. In summary, it appeared
that OEGJ can reduce the progress of aging process or even can reverse aging by stimulating
reconstitution of the microcirculation, in which cells live and function, and replacing the
damaged or died important cells, such as neurons or cardiac myocytes with newly
regenerated neurons or cardiac myocytes. Therefore, the compositions of the present
invention may be used for enhancing longevity and quality of life.
Example 6 - Diabetes
101031     Based on the above-mentioned rationale, the possibility of using OEGJ for the
treatment of diabetes was tested in diabetics on the basis of mercy treatment. A 59-year-old
male was first diagnosed with diabetes before undergoing hemorrhoid surgery a year before
treatment. His blood glucose level at that time was 24.0 mmol/L. He was put on insulin
treatment for a week and started to take diabetes medicine (Diamicron 80 mg, 2 tablets every
morning under fasting condition). His average blood glucose level during the six-month
period on the medication was 9.97 mmol/L. He started to take OEGJ orally (1.8 g/daily) in
combination with Daimicron and his average blood glucose level during the two-month
period of OEGJ treatment was lowered to 7.90 mmol/L. His average blood glucose level was
kept at a similar level (8.06 mmol/L) even after he discontinued with OEGJ treatment for two
months.
 Example 7 - Inflammatory diseases, wound healing and bedsore
 [01041    Based on the above-mentioned therapeutic effects, OEGJ should be useful in
 treating chronic inflammatory diseases, wounds and bedsores. We therefore tested the
 possibility of using OEGJ for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases, wounds and
 bedsorse on the basis of mercy treatment.
 [01051    A female patient from Shanghai had multiple brain attacks (strokes) about two years
 ago. After she had another brain attack about 8 months ago, she completely lost her language
 and all physical abilities. She lost any proactive reaction to any events and appeared as a
 complete vegetative patient with muscle stiffness. A few months later, she developed a deep
 bedsore (16-1 8cm diameter and 10-12cm deep) on the buttocks at the time of examination.
 What made the situation even worse was that the patient was also infected with multipledrug
                                                  28

resistantStaphylococcus aureus. People were worried she would lose her life from this severe
bedsore and infection. After surgical debridement of the dead and decayed tissues, she was
administered with OEGJ (oral administration, 2 grams/day). One week after OEGJ
medication, her bedsore began to heal very quickly. The open wound became smaller and
progressively shallower. Two months treatment with OEGJ had completely healed her deep
decubitus. When the patient stopped taking the drug, the speed of healing of her bedsore was
slowed down. After the patient resumed the OEGJ treatment, the speed of healing of the
bedsore was accelerated.
Example 8 - Ocular Disorders
[01061     Based on the above-mentioned rationale, the possibility that OEGJ may be useful in
treating age-related and degenerative ocular disorders was tested in patients on the basis of
mercy treatment.
[01071     An 80 years old female, started to show symptoms of cataract four years ago. Her
vision is getting worse that she could not see pictures on TV clearly even with glasses. She
received OEGJ (2 g/daily) by oral administration for one month. Three months later, she
claimed that she could watch TV with no difficulties even without glasses. She could also
read magazines and books well.
101081     A 78-year-old male was diagnosed with severe cataract over a year with blurred
vision and became blind eventually. After cataract surgery, his vision was recovered
somewhat. However, he completely lost his vision again two weeks later. Three months after
cataract surgery, he was treated with OEGJ (1.5 g/daily) orally for two months. After OEGJ
treatment, he could clearly identify individual persons and be able find his way while
walking. He was even able to identify small objects (3 cm long and 0.3 cm in diameter) in the
vegetable field.
 [01091    A 48-year-old female has been wearing reading glasses due to presbyopia for over
eight years. Eight months ago, she had to wear more powerful reading glasses to be able to
 see clearly the contents on the computer. After one month oral administration of OEGJ (0.5
 g/daily), she was able to read articles on the computer even without glasses.
 [01101    A 48-year-old male started to complain about vision problems due to presbyopia
 about four years ago. Without reading glasses, he could not see details on his identification
                                                 29

card clearly. After oral administration of OEGJ (2 g/daily) for two months, he could read his
identification card with no difficulties even without his reading glasses.
[01111      Based on the above-mentioned multiple therapeutic effects of OEGJ and the
promising effects of OEGJ in treating people with ocular disorders, we propose that OEGJ
may exert its effects by significantly promoting physical reconstitution of insufficient blood
supply due to aging that will substantially improve the living micro-environment of tissues
and cells in the eye. In case of cataract, by increasing blood flow in the eye, OEGJ may help
to prevent and/or slow down the protein clustering on the lens and may be also helpful in
dissolving the preexisting protein clusters on the lens. In case of presbyopia, OEGJ-induced
improvement of micro-environment may be beneficial for keeping the elasticity of the lens
and enhancing the strength of ciliary muscles that are responsible for bending and
straightening the lens. In line with this notion, OEGJ may also be useful for treating other
ocular disorders such as diabetic retinopathy, retinitis pigmentosa and ocular ischemic
syndrome.
                                       *       *       *       *
[01121      While certain embodiments have been illustrated and described, it should be
understood that changes and modifications can be made therein in accordance with ordinary
skill in the art without departing from the technology in its broader aspects as defined in the
following claims.
 [0113]     The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments
described in this application. Many modifications and variations can be made without
departing from its spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure, in
 addition to those enumerated herein, will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the
 foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the
 scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the
 appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.
 It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods, reagents,
 compounds compositions or biological systems, which can, of course, vary. It is also to be
 understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
 embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
                                                  30

[01141     In addition, where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of
Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby
described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.
[01151     As will be understood by one skilled in the art, for any and all purposes, particularly
in terms of providing a written description, all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any
and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be
easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down
into at least equal halves, thirds, quarters, fifths, tenths, etc. As a non-limiting example, each
range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third, middle third and upper
third, etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as "up to,"
"at least," "greater than," "less than," and the like include the number recited and refer to
ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally,
as will be understood by one skilled in the art, a range includes each individual member.
Thus, for example, a group having 1-3 units refers to groups having 1, 2, or 3 units.
Similarly, a group having 1-5 units refers to groups having 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 units, and so forth.
 [01161    While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein, other aspects
and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and
embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be
limiting, with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.
                                           REFERENCES
 Armanios MY, Chen JJ, Cogan JD, Alder JK, Ingersoll RG, Markin C, Lawson WE, Xie M,
 Vulto I, Phillips JA 3rd, Lansdorp PM, Greider CW, Loyd JE. Telomerase mutations in
 families with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. N Engl JMed 356: 1317-1326, 2007.
 Artandi SE, Alson S, Tietze MK, Sharpless NE, Ye S, Greenberg RA, Castrillon DH, Homer
 JW, Weiler SR, Carrasco RD, DePinho RA. Constitutive telomerase expression promotes
 mammary carcinomas in aging mice. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99: 8191-8196, 2002.
 Artandi SE, Chang S, Lee SL, Alson S, Gottlieb GJ, Chin L, DePinho RA. Telomere
 dysfunction promotes non-reciprocal translocations and epithelial cancers in mice. Nature
 406: 641-645, 2000.
 Artandi SE, DePinho RA. A critical role for telomeres in suppressing and facilitating
 carcinogenesis. Curr Opin Genet Dev 10: 39-46, 2000.
 Autexier C, Lue NF. The structure and function of telomerase reverse transcriptase. Annu Rev
 Biochem 75: 493-517, 2006.
                                                   31

Autexier C, Lue NF. The structure and function of telomerase reverse transcriptase. Annu Rev
Biochem 75: 493-517, 2006.
Baerlocher GM, Lansdorp PM. Telomere length measurements in leukocyte subsets by
automated multicolor flow-FISH. Cytometry A 55: 1-6, 2003.
Baerlocher GM, Rice K, Vulto I, Lansdorp PM. Longitudinal data on telomere length in
leukocytes from newborn baboons support a marked drop in stem cell turnover around 1 year
of age. Aging Cell 6: 121-123, 2007.
Baerlocher GM, Vulto I,de Jong G, Lansdorp PM. Flow cytometry and FISH to measure the
average length of telomeres (flow FISH). Nat Protocol 1: 2365-2376, 2006.
Baird DM, Davis T, Rowson J, Jones CJ, Kipling D. Normal telomere erosion rates at the
single cell level in Werner syndrome fibroblast cells. Hum Mol Genet 13: 1515-1524, 2004.
Baird DM, Rowson J, Wynford-Thomas D, Kipling D. Extensive allelic variation and
ultrashort telomeres in senescent human cells. Nat Genet 33: 203-207, 2003.
Collins K. The biogenesis and regulation of telomerase holoenzymes. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol
7: 484-494, 2006.
Cooke HJ, Smith BA. Variability at the telomeres of the human X/Y pseudoautosomal
region. Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol 51: 213-219, 1986.
Counter CM, Avilion AA, LeFeuvre CE, Stewart NG, Greider CW, Harley CB, Bacchetti S.
Telomere shortening associated with chromosome instability is arrested in immortal cells
which express telomerase activity. EMBO J 11: 1921-1929, 1992.
Harley CB, Futcher AB, Greider CW. Telomeres shorten during ageing of human fibroblasts.
Nature 345: 458-460, 1990.
Hastie ND, Dempster M, Dunlop MG, Thompson AM, Green DK, Allshire RC. Telomere
reduction in human colorectal carcinoma and with ageing. Nature 346: 866-868, 1990.
Hayflick L. Living forever and dying in the attempt. Exp Gerontol 38: 1231-1241, 2003.
Hornsby PJ. Short telomeres: cause or consequence of aging? Aging Cell 5: 577-578, 2006.
J. Apfeld and C. Kenyon (1998) Cell non-autonomy of C. elegans daf-2 function in the
regulation of diapause and lifespan, Cell, v. 95, n.2, pp.199-210.
J.B. Dorman, B. Albinder, T. Shroyer & C. Kenyon (1995) The age-I and daf-2 genes
 function in a common pathway to control the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans, Genetics,
 volume 141, number 4, pages 1399-1406.
 J. McElwee, K. Bubb, J.H. Thomas (2003) Transcriptional outputs of the Caenorhabditis
 elegans forkhead protein DAF-16. Aging Cell 2: 111-121.
 Lei Cheng, Hao Chen, Xinsheng Yao, Guoqing Qi, Hongwei Liu, Kwongman Lee, Kaho Lee,
 Jieting Zhang, Shihui Chen, & Ming Li (2009)' A Plant-derived remedy for repair of infarcted
 heart. Plos One, V4(2)1 e4461.
                                                32

M.S. Gami and C.A. Wolkow (2006) Studies of Caenorhabditis elegans DAF-2/insulin
signaling reveal targets for pharmacological manipulation of lifespan, Aging Cell 5 (1): 31.
Shimada, A. Ohta, I. Akiguchi, T. Takeda (1992) Inbred SAM-P/10 as a mouse model of
spontaneous, inherited brain atrophy. J. Neuropathol. Exp. Neurol. 51, 440-450.
S.T. Henderson and T.E. Johnson (2001) daf-16 integrates developmental and environmental
inputs to mediate aging in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Current Biology 11: 1975
1980.
S.W. Oh, A. Mukhopadhyay, B.L. Dixit, T. Raha, M.R. Green, et al. (2006) Identification of
direct DAF-16 targets controlling longevity, metabolism and diapause by chromatin
immunoprecipitation. Nature Genetics 38: 251-257.
T. Takeda, M. Hosokawa, K. Higuchi (1991) Senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM): A novel
murine model of accelerated senescence. J Amer. Geriatr.Soc. 39, 911-919.
Von Zglinicki T. Role of oxidative stress in telomere length regulation and replicative
senescence. Ann NYAcad Sci 908: 99-110, 2000.
                                                33

                                                 34
The following are aspects of the invention:
1.     A method for enhancing longevity, survival potency and quality of life in a subject in need
thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an organic
extract of Geumjaponicum (OEGJ).
2.     The method of 1, wherein the extract stimulates expression of telomerase and one or more
cell survival factors selected from the group consisting of: Aktl, Bcl2, EGF, VEGF and NFKB.
3.     The method of 1, wherein the extract increases lifespan or quality of life compared to a
subject not administered the extract.
4.     The method of 1, wherein the organic extract is an ethanol extract.
5.     The method of 1, wherein the organic extract is a methanol extract.
6.     The method of any one of I to 5, wherein the subject is a human.
7.     The method of any one of 1 to 6, wherein the extract of is administered orally.
8.     The method of any one of I to 6, wherein the extract is administered by subcutaneous
injection, intramuscular injection, or intravenous infusion.
9.     The method of any one of 1 to 8, wherein the extract is administered in an amount of from
0.01 mg/kg/day to 2000 mg/kg/day.
10.    The method of any one of I to 9, wherein the effective amount of the extract is a
formulation comprising the extract and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
11.    A pharmaceutical composition enhancing longevity, survival potency and quality of life in
a subject comprising an effective amount of an organic extract of Geumjaponicum and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
12.    The composition of 11, wherein the organic extract is an ethanol extract.
13.    The composition of 11, wherein the organic extract is a methonal extract.

                                                 35
 14.   A method for preventing or treating diabetes in a subject in need thereof, the method
 comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an organic extract of Geum
japonicum.
 15.   A method for preventing or treating an ocular disease or condition in a subject in need
 thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an organic
 extract of Geumjaponicum.
 16.   A method for treating inflammation in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising
 administering to the subject an effective amount of an organic extract of Geumjaponicum.
 17.   A method for enhancing wound healing in a subject having a wound, the method
 comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an organic extract of Geum
japonicum.
 18.   The method of 17, wherein the wound is a bed sore.

                                                36
CLAIMS
1.    A method for enhancing longevity, survival potency, and quality of life in a subject in need
thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an organic
extract of Geumjaponicum (OEGJ).
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the extract stimulates expression of telomerase and one or
more cell survival factors selected from the group consisting of: Aktl, Bcl2, EGF, VEGF, and
NFKB.
3.     The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the extract increases lifespan or quality of life
compared to a subject not administered the extract.
4.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the organic extract is an ethanol extract.
5.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the organic extract is a methanol extract.
6.     The method of any of claims I to 5, wherein the subject is a human.
7.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the extract is administered orally.
8.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the extract is administered by
subcutaneous injection, intramuscular injection, or intravenous infusion.
9.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the extract is administered in an amount
of from 0.01 mg/kg/day to 2000 mg/kg/day.
10.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the effective amount of the extract is a
formulation comprising the extract and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
11.   A pharmaceutical composition for enhancing longevity, survival potency and quality of life
in a subject comprising an effective amount of an organic extract of Geumjaponicum and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
12.    The composition of claim 11, wherein the organic extract is an ethanol extract.

                                               37
13.   The composition of claim 11, wherein the organic extract is a methanol extract.
14.   An agent for stimulating the expression of telomerase and one or more cell survival factors
selected from the group consisting of: Aktl, Bcl2, EGF, VEGF, and NFKB, wherein the agent
comprises an organic extract of Geumjaponicum (OEGJ).
15.   The agent of claim 14, wherein the organic extract is an ethanol extract.
16.   The agent of claim 14, wherein the organic extract is a methanol extract.
17.   The agent of any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the subject is a human.
18.   The agent of any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein the agent is formulated to be
administered orally.
19.   The agent of any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein the agent is formulated to be
administered by subcutaneous injection, intramuscular injection, or intravenous infusion.
20.   The agent of any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein the extract is formulated to be
administered in an amount of from 0.01 mg/kg/day to 2000 mg/kg/day.
21.   The agent of any one of claims 14 to 20, wherein the agent comprises a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier.
                                 Generex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
