AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
ABSTRACT
Disclosed is a method for controlling a vehicle, comprising: displaying a first indicator at a user
input button to indicate the availability of a first command state for the user input button,
wherein when the user input button is in the first command state, input at the user input button
initiates an autonomous driving mode of the vehicle; receiving first user input at the user input
button; in response to receiving the first user input at the user input button, controlling the
vehicle, by one or more processors, in the autonomous driving mode; in response to the first
user input at the user input button, changing the display of the first indicator to a display of a
second indicator to indicate the availability of a second command state for the user input button;
when the user input button is in the second command state, receiving second user input at the
user input button; and in response to the second user input, stopping, by the one or more
processors, the vehicle.

                                                 1
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2015263981, filed 22 May 2015, which in turn claims priority from U.S. Patent
Application No. 14/455,215, filed 8 August 2014 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 62/002,319 filed 23 May, 2014. Australian Patent Application No. 2015263981, U.S. Patent
Application No. 14/455,215 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/002,319 are
incorporated herein by reference in entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002]           Autonomous vehicles, such as vehicles that do not require a human driver, can be
used to aid in the transport of passengers or items from one location to another. Such vehicles
may operate in a fully autonomous mode where passengers may provide some initial input, such
as a destination, and the vehicle maneuvers itself to that destination.
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0003]           One aspect of the disclosure provides a vehicle for maneuvering a passenger to a
destination autonomously. The vehicle includes one or more computing devices and a set of
user input buttons configured to communicate requests to stop the vehicle and to initiate a trip to
the destination with the one or more computing devices. The set of user input buttons consists
essentially of (1) a dual-purpose button having a first purpose to communicate a request to
initiate the trip to the destination and a second purpose to communicate a request to pull the
vehicle over and stop the vehicle, and (2) an emergency stopping button different from the dual
purpose button, the emergency stopping button configured to stop the vehicle.
[0004]           In one example, the vehicle also includes one or more short range wireless
network connections configured to communicate between the one or more computing devices
and a client computing device.       In another example, the vehicle also includes one or more
wireless network connections configured to communicate between the one or more computing
devices and a server computing device. The wireless network connections allow for the server
computing device to relay information received from a client computing device to the one or

                                                   2
more computing devices.         In another example, the vehicle also includes a microphone
configured to provide user input to the one or more computing devices. In another example, the
second purpose is only available after the dual-purpose button has been activated according to
the first purpose. In another example, the vehicle also includes a drive train does not include a
steering wheel, a deceleration pedal, or an acceleration pedal. In another example, the vehicle
also includes no user inputs for the steering, acceleration, and deceleration of the vehicle other
than the set of user buttons. In another example, the dual-purpose button is configured to have
an inactive state when the one or more computing devices are not ready to initiate the trip. In
another example, the dual-purpose button is configured to have two active states. A first of the
two active states includes display information identifying that the button is operable for the first
purpose and not the second purpose, and a second of the two active states includes display
information identifying that the button is operable for the second purpose and not the first
purpose. In another example, the one or more computing devices are configured to keep the
dual-purpose button in an inactive state when the vehicle is not ready to initiate the trip. In
another example, the emergency stopping button includes a cover configured to be moved into a
first position in order to allow a passenger to activate the emergency stopping button. In this
example, the emergency stopping button is configured to be pulled up to activate the emergency
stopping button when the cover is in the first position.
[0005]           Another aspect of the disclosure provides a vehicle for maneuvering a passenger
to a destination autonomously. The vehicle includes one or more computing devices and a set of
user input buttons configured to communicate requests to stop the vehicle and to initiate a trip to
the destination with the one or more computing devices. The set of user input buttons consists
essentially of a first button configured to communicate a request to initiate the trip to the
destination, a second button configured to communicate a request to stop the vehicle within a
first period of time, and a third button different from the first button and the second button. The
third button is configured to communicate a request to initiate an emergency stop within a
second period of time less than the first period of time.
[0006]           In this example, the first button is configured to have an active state for
communicating the request to initiate the trip to the destination and an inactive state, and the
second button is configured to have an active state communicating the request to stop the
vehicle within the first period of time and an inactive state. The active state of the first button is
available only when the second button is in the inactive state. In this example, the one or more

                                                  3
computing devices are configured to keep the first button in the inactive state when the vehicle
is not ready to initiate the trip. In addition to or alternatively, the one or more computing
devices are configured to keep the second button in the inactive state until the trip has been
initiated. In another example, when the second button is activated, the one or more computing
devices are configured to initiate a countdown to allow a passenger to cancel the request to stop
the vehicle, and, when the countdown is completed, identify a location to stop the vehicle within
the first period of time. In another example, when the second button is activated, the one or
more computing devices are configured to stop the vehicle within the first period of time and put
the first button into the active state and the second button into the inactive state. In another
example, when the third button is activated, the one or more computing devices are configured
to stop the vehicle within the second period of time and when the vehicle is stopped, put both
the first button and the second button into the inactive states.
[00071          A further aspect of the disclosure provides a vehicle for maneuvering a passenger
to a destination autonomously.      The vehicle includes a drive train, one or more computing
devices configured to control the drivetrain autonomously, and a set of user inputs configured to
communicate with the one or more computing devices in order to initiate a request for the one or
more computing devices to control the vehicle to the destination autonomously. The vehicle
does not include a user-controlled steering mechanism, acceleration control, or deceleration
control which would allow for a driving mode where a passenger would directly control at least
one of steering, acceleration, or deceleration of the vehicle via the drive train.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00081          FIGURE 1 is a functional diagram of an example vehicle in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment.
[0009]          FIGURE 2 is a functional diagram of an example system in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment.
[0010]          FIGURE 3 is a pictorial diagram of the system of FIGURE 2 in accordance with
aspects of the disclosure.
[0011]          FIGURES 4A-4D are example external views of a vehicle in accordance with
aspects of the disclosure.

                                                   4
[00121          FIGURE 5 is an example internal view of a vehicle in accordance with aspects of
the disclosure.
[0013]          FIGURE 6 is an example of a console of a vehicle in accordance with aspects of
the disclosure.
[0014]          FIGURES 7A-7C are examples of an emergency stopping button of a vehicle in
accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
[0015]          FIGURE 8 is an example of three different states of a button of a vehicle in
accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
[00161          FIGURES 9A and 9B are an example flow diagram in accordance with aspects of
the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00171          The technology relates to a vehicle for maneuvering a passenger to a destination,
for example taking a trip, autonomously. The vehicle may include various user inputs for
initiating as well as terminating such trips. In one example, the vehicle may include various
buttons that can be used to communicate requests from a passenger to the vehicle's computers in
order to initiate a trip, pull the vehicle over, or initiate an emergency stop. These buttons may
therefore obviate the need for typical vehicle inputs such as a steering wheel, brake or
acceleration pedals, or such inputs that would provide the passenger with direct communication
with the vehicle's drive train or direct control over the steering, acceleration, or braking of the
vehicle.
[00181          In one example, the buttons may include a multipurpose button. The multi
purpose button may have a plurality of different states with different states of activation. For
instance, in a first state, where the vehicle is not ready to begin a trip, such as when a door is
open or a seatbelt has not been buckled, the button may have no function or be inactive. Once
the vehicle is ready to begin a trip, the button may switch to a second state. In this second state,
the button may be used to communicate a request from a passenger to the vehicle's computer to
begin a trip to a destination. Once a trip has begun, the button may switch to a third state. In
this third state, the button may be used to communicate a request from a passenger to the

                                                   5
vehicle's computer to pull the vehicle over. When the vehicle has stopped or pulled over, the
button may revert to the first or second state depending upon the circumstances. In order to
differentiate between the states, the buttons may display information to the user to indicate the
current state of the button.
[0019]           Alternatively, rather than having a single multipurpose button as described
above, two buttons with different states of activation may be used. For example, both buttons
may initially be inactive where the vehicle is not ready to begin a trip, such as when a door is
open or a seatbelt has not been buckled. Once the vehicle is ready to begin a trip, only one of
the buttons (the first button) may switch to an active state where the first button may be used to
communicate a request from a passenger to the vehicle's computer to being a trip to a
destination. The second button may remain inactive until the vehicle has begun a trip. At this
point, the first button may become inactive again, and the second button may be switched to an
active state where the second button may be used to communicate a request from a passenger to
the vehicle's computer to pull the vehicle over. In this regard, only one of the buttons is
available to be used by the passenger at a time. When the vehicle has stopped or pulled over,
the second button may change to the inactive state, while the first button may change to the
active or inactive state depending upon the circumstances. Again, in order to differentiate
between the states, the buttons may display information to the user to indicate the current state
of the button.
[0020]           In response to a request to pull the vehicle over via any of the buttons described
above, the vehicle's computer may provide the passenger with an opportunity to cancel the
request. For example, by pressing the button a second time within a short period of time or until
the vehicle begins to physically pull over, the request may be cancelled. Although not required,
to notify the passenger of the time to do so, a countdown may be used. Once the countdown has
reached zero, the vehicle's computer may begin to look for a reasonable place to stop and/or pull
the vehicle over.
[0021]           In order to pull the vehicle over safely, the vehicle's computer may look for an
open space to pull the vehicle over. If one is not available within a short period of time, such as
ten seconds or more or less, or distance, the vehicle's computer may bring the vehicle to a stop
in the current lane or as far to the right as possible, changing lanes if necessary, so long as the
vehicle is not in an unsafe location. Examples of unsafe locations may include train tracks,

                                                 6
intersections, busy roadways, etc. which may be identified, for example, based on a combination
of sensor data and pre-stored map information. If the vehicle is in an unsafe location, the
vehicle's computer may continue to look for an open space to pull over outside of the short
period of time. If necessary, the vehicle may simply stop in the middle of a lane.
[0022]           The buttons may also include an emergency stop button for communicating a
request from a passenger to the vehicle's computer to initiate an emergency stop. If such a stop
is initiated, the vehicle's computer may stop the vehicle within a very short period, such as 3
seconds or more or less depending, for example, on the speed and braking power of the vehicle
or the speed and distance of another object (such as another vehicle) behind the vehicle. The
vehicle's computer may also display a notification to the passenger indicating that the
emergency stop button has been activated and help has been called (either a concierge or an
emergency response center, e.g., a 911 call center). When the emergency stop button is used,
the vehicle's computer may prevent the passenger from beginning a new trip without the
assistance of the concierge or at all. Accordingly, the vehicle's computer may change the states
of the other buttons to inactive state.
[00231           Given the nature of the emergency stop described above, the emergency stop
button may be configured to reduce the likelihood of accidental use of the button. For example,
rather than a simple push-button activation, the emergency stop button may require that the
passenger pull up on the emergency stop button. In order to differentiate between the buttons,
the emergency stop button may be in a different color from other buttons, such as red, and may
include a warning-type text such as "STOP NOW - EMERGENCY" in order to indicate to the
passenger the purpose of the emergency stop button. In addition, the emergency stopping button
may be positioned in order to allow more than one passenger to activate this button when
needed. In this regard, more than one emergency stopping button may be used in a vehicle, such
as where there is seating for three or more passengers, in order to allow all passengers the ability
to use the emergency stopping buttons.
[0024]           The emergency stop button may also include a cover which must first be
removed, lifted, or otherwise displaced before the passenger is able to activate the emergency
stop button. In one example, the cover may be a flip up cover. The flip up cover may be a
spring-loaded cover with a damper that slows down the closure of the flip-up cover. As another
example, the cover may be slid away from over the emergency button. The cover may also be

                                                  7
made of clear plastic in order to allow the passenger to see the emergency stop button and to
read the text of the button. The combination of the flip up cover and the pull up button are
simple and easy to use, but also reduce the likelihood of accidental activation of the emergency
stop button.
[0025]          In addition to the buttons described above, the vehicle may also include other
means for providing user input such as a microphone or camera (for communicating with a
concierge) and/or one or more wireless network connections. In one example, the wireless
network connections may include short range wireless network connections for communicating
information between a client computing device of the passenger and the vehicle's computer. In
addition, the wireless network connections may allow for communications between the vehicle's
computer and a server computing device. In this regard, the server computing device may relay
information received from the passenger's client computing device to the vehicle's computer.
[0026]          As shown in FIGURE 1, a vehicle 100 in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosure includes various components. While certain aspects of the disclosure are particularly
useful in connection with specific types of vehicles, the vehicle may be any type of vehicle
including, but not limited to, cars, trucks, motorcycles, busses, recreational vehicles, etc. The
vehicle may have one or more computing devices, such as computing device 110 containing one
or more processors 120, memory 130 and other components typically present in general purpose
computing devices.
[00271          The memory 130 stores information accessible by the one or more processors
120, including instructions 132 and data 134 that may be executed or otherwise used by the
processor 120. The memory 130 may be of any type capable of storing information accessible
by the processor, including a computing device-readable medium, or other medium that stores
data that may be read with the aid of an electronic device, such as a hard-drive, memory card,
ROM, RAM, DVD or other optical disks, as well as other write-capable and read-only
memories. Systems and methods may include different combinations of the foregoing, whereby
different portions of the instructions and data are stored on different types of media.
[0028]          The instructions 132 may be any set of instructions to be executed directly (such
as machine code) or indirectly (such as scripts) by the processor. For example, the instructions
may be stored as computing device code on the computing device-readable medium. In that

                                                  8
regard, the terms "instructions" and "programs" may be used interchangeably herein.             The
instructions may be stored in object code format for direct processing by the processor, or in any
other computing device language including scripts or collections of independent source code
modules that are interpreted on demand or compiled in advance.            Functions, methods and
routines of the instructions are explained in more detail below.
[0029]           The data 134 may be retrieved, stored or modified by processor 120 in
accordance with the instructions 132. For instance, although the claimed subject matter is not
limited by any particular data structure, the data may be stored in computing device registers, in
a relational database as a table having a plurality of different fields and records, XML
documents or flat files. The data may also be formatted in any computing device-readable
format.
[0030]           The one or more processor 120 may be any conventional processors, such as
commercially available CPUs. Alternatively, the one or more processors may be a dedicated
device such as an ASIC or other hardware-based processor. Although FIGURE 1 functionally
illustrates the processor, memory, and other elements of computing device 110 as being within
the same block, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the processor,
computing device, or memory may actually include multiple processors, computing devices, or
memories that may or may not be stored within the same physical housing. For example,
memory may be a hard drive or other storage media located in a housing different from that of
computing device 110. Accordingly, references to a processor or computing device will be
understood to include references to a collection of processors or computing devices or memories
that may or may not operate in parallel.
[0031]           Computing device 110 may all of the components normally used in connection
with a computing device such as the processor and memory described above as well as a user
input 150 (e.g., a mouse, keyboard, touch screen and/or microphone) and various electronic
displays (e.g., a monitor having a screen or any other electrical device that is operable to display
information). In this example, the vehicle includes an internal electronic display 152 as well as
one or more speakers 154 to provide information or audio visual experiences. In this regard,
internal electronic display 152 may be located within a cabin of vehicle 100 and may be used by
computing device 110 to provide information to passengers within the vehicle 100.

                                                  9
[00321          Computing device 110 may also include one or more wireless network
connections 154 to facilitate communication with other computing devices, such as the client
computing devices and server computing devices described in detail below.              The wireless
network connections may include short range communication protocols such as Bluetooth,
Bluetooth low energy (LE), cellular connections, as well as various configurations and protocols
including the Internet, World Wide Web, intranets, virtual private networks, wide area networks,
local networks, private networks using communication protocols proprietary to one or more
companies, Ethernet, WiFi and HTTP, and various combinations of the foregoing.
[0033]          In one example, computing device 110 may be an autonomous driving computing
system incorporated into vehicle 100. The autonomous driving computing system may capable
of communicating with various components of the vehicle. For example, returning to FIGURE
1, computing device 110 may be in communication with various systems of vehicle 100, such as
deceleration system 160, acceleration system 162, steering system 164, signaling system 166,
navigation system 168, positioning system 170, and detection system 172 in order to control the
movement, speed, etc. of vehicle 100 in accordance with the instructions 134 of memory 130.
Again, although these systems are shown as external to computing device 110, in actuality, these
systems may also be incorporated into computing device 110, again as an autonomous driving
computing system for controlling vehicle 100.
[0034]          As an example, computing device 110 may interact with deceleration system 160
and acceleration system 162 in order to control the speed of the vehicle. Similarly, steering
system 164 may be used by computer 110 in order to control the direction of vehicle 100. For
example, if vehicle 100 is configured for use on a road, such as a car or truck, the steering
system may include components to control the angle of wheels to turn the vehicle. Signaling
system 166 may be used by computing device 110 in order to signal the vehicle's intent to other
drivers or vehicles, for example, by lighting turn signals or brake lights when needed.
[0035]          Navigation system 168 may be used by computing device 110 in order to
determine and follow a route to a location. In this regard, the navigation system 168 and/or data
134 may store detailed map information, e.g., highly detailed maps identifying the shape and
elevation of roadways, lane lines, intersections, crosswalks, speed limits, traffic signals,
buildings, signs, real time traffic information, vegetation, or other such objects and information.

                                                   10
[00361           Positioning system 170 may be used by computing device 110 in order to
determine the vehicle's relative or absolute position on a map or on the earth. For example, the
position system 170 may include a GPS receiver to determine the device's latitude, longitude
and/or altitude position.     Other location systems such as laser-based localization systems,
inertial-aided GPS, or camera-based localization may also be used to identify the location of the
vehicle.   The location of the vehicle may include an absolute geographical location, such as
latitude, longitude, and altitude as well as relative location information, such as location relative
to other cars immediately around it which can often be determined with less noise that absolute
geographical location.
[00371           The positioning system 170 may also include other devices in communication
with computing device 110, such as an accelerometer, gyroscope or another direction/speed
detection device to determine the direction and speed of the vehicle or changes thereto. By way
of example only, an acceleration device may determine its pitch, yaw or roll (or changes thereto)
relative to the direction of gravity or a plane perpendicular thereto. The device may also track
increases or decreases in speed and the direction of such changes. The device's provision of
location and orientation data as set forth herein may be provided automatically to the computing
device 110, other computing devices and combinations of the foregoing.
[00381           The detection system 172 also includes one or more components for detecting
objects external to the vehicle such as other vehicles, obstacles in the roadway, traffic signals,
signs, trees, etc.    For example, the detection system 170 may include lasers, sonar, radar,
cameras and/or any other detection devices that record data which may be processed by
computing device 110. In the case where the vehicle is a small passenger vehicle such as a car,
the car may include a laser or other sensors mounted on the roof or other convenient location.
[00391           The computing device 110 may control the direction and speed of the vehicle by
controlling various components. By way of example, computing device 110 may navigate the
vehicle to a destination location completely autonomously using data from the detailed map
information and navigation system 168. Computer 110 may use the positioning system 170 to
determine the vehicle's location and detection system 172 to detect and respond to objects when
needed to reach the location safely. In order to do so, computer 110 may cause the vehicle to
accelerate (e.g., by increasing fuel or other energy provided to the engine by acceleration system
162), decelerate (e.g., by decreasing the fuel supplied to the engine, changing gears, and/or by

                                                  11
applying brakes by deceleration system 160), change direction (e.g., by turning the front or rear
wheels of vehicle 100 by steering system 164), and signal such changes (e.g., by lighting turn
signals of signaling system 166). Thus, the acceleration system 162 and deceleration system
162 may be a part of a drivetrain that includes various components between an engine of the
vehicle and the wheels of the vehicle. Again, by controlling these systems, computer 110 may
also control the drivetrain of the vehicle in order to maneuver the vehicle autonomously.
[0040]          Computing device 110 of vehicle 100 may also receive or transfer information to
and from other computing devices. FIGURES 2 and 3 are pictorial and functional diagrams,
respectively, of an example system 200 that includes a plurality of computing devices 210, 220,
230, 240 and a storage system 250 connected via a network 260.           System 200 also includes
vehicle 100, and vehicle 100A which may be configured similarly to vehicle 100. Although
only a few vehicles and computing devices are depicted for simplicity, a typical system may
include significantly more.
[0041]          As shown in FIGURE 3, each of computing devices 210, 220, 230, 240 may
include one or more processors, memory, data and instructions.        Such processors, memories,
data and instructions may be configured similarly to one or more processors 120, memory 130,
data 132, and instructions 134 of computing device 110.
[0042]          The network 260, and intervening nodes, may include various configurations and
protocols including short range communication protocols such as Bluetooth, Bluetooth LE, the
Internet, World Wide Web, intranets, virtual private networks, wide area networks, local
networks, private networks using communication protocols proprietary to one or more
companies, Ethernet, WiFi and HTTP, and various combinations of the foregoing.               Such
communication may be facilitated by any device capable of transmitting data to and from other
computing devices, such as modems and wireless interfaces.
[0043]          In one example, one or more computing devices 110 may include a server having
a plurality of computing devices, e.g., a load balanced server farm, that exchange information
with different nodes of a network for the purpose of receiving, processing and transmitting the
data to and from other computing devices. For instance, one or more computing devices 210
may include one or more server computing devices that are capable of communicating with
computing device 110 of vehicle 100 or a similar computing device of vehicle 100A as well as

                                                 12
computing devices 220, 230, 240 via the network 260. For example, vehicles 100 and 100A
may be a part of a fleet of vehicles that can be dispatched by server computing devices to
various locations.   In this regard, the vehicles of the fleet may periodically send the server
computing devices location information provided by the vehicle's respective positioning systems
and the one or more server computing devices may track the locations of the vehicles.
[0044]         In addition, server computing devices 210 may use network 260 to transmit and
present information to a user, such as user 222, 232, 242 on a display, such as displays 224, 234,
242 of computing devices 220, 230, 240. In this regard, computing devices 220, 230, 240 may
be considered client computing devices.
[0045]         As shown in FIGURE 3, each client computing device 220, 230, 240 may be a
personal computing device intended for use by a user 222, 232, 242, and have all of the
components normally used in connection with a personal computing device including a one or
more processors (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU)), memory (e.g., RAM and internal hard
drives) storing data and instructions, a display such as displays 224, 234, 244 (e.g., a monitor
having a screen, a touch-screen, a projector, a television, or other device that is operable to
display information), and user input devices 226, 236, 246 (e.g.,           a mouse, keyboard,
touch-screen or microphone).      The client computing devices may also include a camera for
recording video streams, speakers, a network interface device, and all of the components used
for connecting these elements to one another.
[0046]         In addition, the client computing devices 220 and 230 may also include
components 228 and 238 for determining the position and orientation of client computing
devices. For example, these components may include a GPS receiver to determine the device's
latitude, longitude and/or altitude as well as an accelerometer,          gyroscope or another
direction/speed detection device as described above with regard to positioning system 170 of
vehicle 100.
[00471         Although the client computing devices 220, 230, and 240 may each comprise a
full-sized personal computing device, they may alternatively comprise mobile computing
devices capable of wirelessly exchanging data with a server over a network such as the Internet.
By way of example only, client computing device 220 may be a mobile phone or a device such
as a wireless-enabled PDA, a tablet PC, a wearable computing device or system, or a netbook

                                                  13
that is capable of obtaining information via the Internet or other networks. In another example,
client computing device 230 may be a wearable computing system, shown as a head-mounted
computing system in FIGURE 2. As an example the user may input information using a small
keyboard, a keypad, microphone, using visual signals with a camera, or a touch screen.
[0048]          In some examples, client computing device 240 may be a concierge work station
used by an administrator to provide concierge services to users such as users 222 and 232. For
example, a concierge 242 may use the concierge work station 240 to communicate via a
telephone call or audio connection with users through their respective client computing devices
or vehicles 100 or 1OOA in order to facilitate the safe operation of vehicles 100 and 1OOA and
the safety of the users as described in further detail below. Although only a single concierge
work station 240 is shown in FIGURES 2 and 3, any number of such work stations may be
included in a typical system.
[0049]          Storage system 250 may store various types of information as described in more
detail below. This information may be retrieved or otherwise accessed by a server computing
device, such as one or more server computing devices 210, in order to perform some or all of the
features described herein. For example, the information may include user account information
such as credentials (e.g., a user name and password as in the case of a traditional single-factor
authentication as well as other types of credentials typically used in multi-factor authentications
such as random identifiers, biometrics, etc.) that can be used to identify a user to the one or more
server computing devices. The user account information may also include personal information
such as the user's name, contact information, identifying information of the user's client
computing device (or devices if multiple devices are used with the same user account), as well
as one or more unique signals for the user.
[0050]          The storage system 250 may also store routing data for generating and evaluating
routes between locations. For example, the routing information may be used to estimate how
long it would take a vehicle at a first location to reach a second location. In this regard, the
routing information may include map information, not necessarily as particular as the detailed
map information described above, but including roads, as well as information about those road
such as direction (one way, two way, etc.), orientation (North, South, etc.), speed limits, as well
as traffic information identifying expected traffic conditions, etc.

                                                  14
[0051]           As with memory 130, storage system 250 can be of any type of computerized
storage capable of storing information accessible by the server computing devices 210, such as a
hard-drive, memory card, ROM, RAM, DVD, CD-ROM, write-capable, and read-only
memories. In addition, storage system 250 may include a distributed storage system where data
is stored on a plurality of different storage devices which may be physically located at the same
or different geographic locations.      Storage system 150 may be connected to the computing
devices via the network 260 as shown in FIGURE 2 and/or may be directly connected to or
incorporated into any of the computing devices 110, 210, 220, 230, 240, etc.
[0052]           FIGURES 4A-4D are examples of external views of vehicle 100. As can be
seen, vehicle 100 includes many features of a typical vehicle such as headlights 402, windshield
403, taillights/turn signal lights 404, rear windshield 405, doors 406, side view mirrors 408, tires
and wheels 410, and turn signal/parking lights 412. Headlights 402, taillights/turn signal lights
404, and turn signal/parking lights 412 may be associated the signaling system 166. Light bar
407 may also be associated with the signaling system 166.
[0053]           Vehicle 100 also includes sensors of the detection system 172.       For example,
housing 414 may include one or more laser devices for having 360 degree or narrower fields of
view and one or more camera devices. Housings 416 and 418 may include, for example, one or
more radar and/or sonar devices. The devices of the detection system may also be incorporated
into the typical vehicle components, such as taillights 404 and/or side view mirrors 408. Each
of these radar, camera, and lasers devices may be associated with processing components which
process data from these devices as part of the detection system 172 and provide sensor data to
the computing device 110.
[0054]           FIGURE 5 is an example internal view of vehicle 100 through the opening of
door 406. In this example, there are two seats 502 for passengers with a console 504 between
them. Directly in ahead of the seats 502 is a dashboard configuration 506 having a storage bin
area 508 and the internal electronic display 152. As can be readily seen, vehicle 100 does not
include a steering wheel, gas (acceleration) pedal, or brake (deceleration) pedal which would
allow for a semiautonomous or manual driving mode where a passenger would directly control
the steering, acceleration and/or deceleration of the vehicle via the drivetrain.        Rather, as
described in further detail below, user input is limited to a microphone of the user input 150 (not
shown), features of the console 504, and wireless network connections 156.          In this regard,

                                                  15
internal electronic display 152 merely provides information to the passenger and need not
include a touch screen or other interface for user input.      In other embodiments, the internal
electronic display 152 may include a touch screen or other user input device for entering
information by a passenger such as a destination, etc.
[0055]          The internal electronic display 152 has a generally rectangular shape where the
width of the display is significantly smaller than the length. The internal electronic display 152
may include an anti-reflective coating and be situated above the storage bin area 508 in order to
align with a passenger's eye level when seated in either of the seats 502. The microphone of the
user input 150 may be a located behind a small opening at the top center of the internal
electronic display 152.
[0056]           Storage bin area 508 may be configured to hold items such as shopping bags,
purses, backpacks, etc. The depth of the storage bin may be configured such that larger objects
are less likely to tip out of the storage bin area during an abrupt deceleration or acceleration of
vehicle 100. In some examples, elastic straps may be used to further secure items in the storage
bin area. Storage bin area 508 may serve a dual purpose as a foot rest for passengers seated in
seats 502.
[00571          FIGURE 6 is a top down view of the console 504. Console 504 includes various
buttons for controlling features of vehicle 100. For example, console 504 includes buttons that
may be found in a typical vehicle such as buttons 602 for locking and unlocking the doors 406,
buttons 604 for raising or lowering the windows of doors 406, buttons 606 for turning on
internal lights of the vehicle, buttons 608 for controlling a heating function of seats 502, as well
as buttons 610 for controlling the volume of speakers 154.
[0058]          In addition, console 504 also includes buttons 611 for initiating communication
with concierge 242 via one of the wireless network connections 156. Once the concierge work
station is connected to the vehicle, the concierge may communicate with the passenger via the
speakers 154 and/or internal electronic display 152.       In addition, the microphone allows the
passenger to speak directly to the concierge. In some cases, vehicle 100 may include an internal
still or video camera that allows the concierge to view the status of the passengers and confirm
their safety.

                                                16
[0059]          Buttons 612 and 614 may also be a part of user input 150 and in this regard,
allow a passenger to communicate with computer 110, for example, to initiate or end a trip in
the vehicle. In this regard, button 612 may act as an emergency stopping button that, when
pushed, causes vehicle 100 to stop in a short amount of time. Because the passenger does not
have direct control of the acceleration or deceleration of vehicle 100 by way of a gas or brake
pedal, button 612 may be an emergency stop button that is critical to allowing a passenger to
feel safe and act quickly in case of an immediate emergency.
[0060]          In addition, because of the potentially abrupt nature of a stop initiated by the
emergency stopping button 612, the emergency stopping button may include one or more
features that may reduce the likelihood of accidental activation of the emergency stop button.
As an example, such features may include a cover which must first be removed, lifted, or
otherwise displaced before the passenger is able to activate the emergency stop button, and the
emergency stopping button may need to be pulled (rather than pushed) in order to be activated.
[0061]          FIGURES 7A-7C are examples of emergency stopping button 612 with a flip up
cover 712. The flip up cover 712 may be a spring-loaded cover with a damper that slows down
the closure of the flip-up cover. FIGURE 7A is an example of the flip up cover 712 and
emergency stopping button 612 in the typical down position. In this regard, the emergency
stopping button is not activated and the flip up cover is closed. In this example, the cover may
be made of clear plastic in order to allow the passenger to see the emergency stop button and to
read the text of the emergency stopping button.
[0062]          In FIGURE 7B, the flip up cover 712 has been opened, but as can be seen, the
emergency stopping button has not been activated. In this regard, even though the cover has
been removed, a second action on the emergency stopping button must be performed in order to
initiate an emergency stop.
[0063]          In FIGURE 7C, the flip up cover 712 has been opened and the emergency
stopping button 612 has been activated (as it is shown in the up position). As shown, the
emergency stopping button 612 must be pulled up in a direction generally opposite of the flip up
cover in order to activate the emergency stopping button. The combination of the flip up cover
and the pull up button are simple and easy to use, but also reduce the likelihood of accidental
activation of the emergency stop button.

                                                    17
[00641          Other features and configurations may also be used for the emergency stopping
button.   For example, Rather than flipping up, the cover may be slid away from over the
emergency button. Similarly, rather than being pulled up, the emergency stopping button may
have a typical push button activation.
[0065]          Button 614 may be a multi-function button. For example, FIGURE 8 provides
examples of the same button; here button 614, in three different states. In the first state 802,
button 614 is inactive, that is, if pressed, the vehicle's computer 110 would not respond by
taking any particular action with regard to controlling the movement of the vehicle. However,
even in this inactive state, the vehicle's computers may provide a passenger with some visual or
audible feedback to indicate that the button is pressed.       As an example, this feedback may
indicate that the computer recognizes that the button was pressed or otherwise activated, but that
button is currently inactive and the vehicle will not respond by maneuvering the vehicle in any
particular way (e.g., not starting a trip or pulling over).
[0066]          In the second state 804, when the vehicle is ready to begin a trip, the button 614
may change to a "GO" button which a passenger uses to initiate a trip to a destination or drop off
location. Once vehicle 100 is moving, button 614 may change to a third state 806, where the
button 614 is a "PULL OVER" button which a passenger users to initiate a non-emergency stop.
In this regard, computer 110 may respond by determining a reasonable place to pull the vehicle
over, rather than coming to a more sudden stop as with the emergency stop button 612. Arrows
812, 814, and 816 indicate that the states need not be displayed only in the order of first, second
third, but may switch from second to first, third to first, third to second, etc. as dictated by the
needs of computer 110.
[00671          Alternatively, rather than having a single multipurpose button 614, two buttons
with different states of activation may be used. In this regard, a first button may have an
inactive state and an active or "GO" state which enables a passenger to initiate a trip to a
destination or drop off location. A second button may have an inactive state and an active or
"PULL OVER" state which enables a passenger to initiate a non-emergency stop.                 In some
examples, when the first button is in the active state, the second button is in the inactive state.
Similarly, when the second button is in the active state, the first button may be in the inactive
state. As discussed in further detail below, before the vehicle is ready to start a trip to a drop off
location, both the first and second buttons may be in the inactive state.

                                                  18
[00681          Thus, passenger communication with computer 110 for navigation purposes may
be limited to button 614 (or two buttons as in the example above), emergency stopping button
612, wireless network connection 156 (such as Bluetooth LE) with the passenger's client
computing device, and by sending information from the passenger's client computing device to
the server 210 which then relays that information to the vehicle's computer. In some examples,
a passenger may provide information to the vehicle's computer 110 via voice commands though
the microphone as discussed above. In addition, however, the passenger may communicate with
the concierge via a phone call, an application on the passenger's client computing device, a
microphone, and/or the concierge button 611 and in turn, the concierge may provide instructions
control certain aspects of a vehicle via a concierge work station.
[0069]          In addition to the operations described above and illustrated in the figures,
various operations will now be described. It should be understood that the following operations
do not have to be performed in the precise order described below. Rather, various steps can be
handled in a different order or simultaneously, and steps may also be added or omitted.
[00701          In one aspect, a user may download an application for requesting a vehicle to a
client computing device. For example, users 222 and 232 may download the application via a
link in an email, directly from a website, or an application store to client computing devices 220
and 230. For example, client computing device may transmit a request for the application over
the network, for example, to one or more server computing devices 210, and in response, receive
the application. The application may be installed locally at the client computing device.
[00711          The user may then use his or her client computing device to access the
application and request a vehicle. As an example, a user such as user 232 may use client
computing device 230 to send a request to one or more server computing devices 210 for a
vehicle. In this regard, the request may identify the user 232 and may also provide information
such as a pickup location for the user (such as one inputted by the user or a current location of
the user's client computing device obtained, for example, using components 238), as well as a
destination location. This destination location may be input by the user.
[0072]          The client computing device, via the application, may send the request to one or
more server computing devices 210. In response, the server computing devices may dispatch a
vehicle to the current location of the user and provide other information such as an estimated

                                                    19
pickup time. Alternatively, the server may notify the client computing device if there are no
vehicles available.
[0073]          Using his or her client computing device, the user may input, provide, or
otherwise select a pickup location, a drop off location, and, in some cases, one or more
intermediate stopping locations anywhere within a service area where a vehicle can stop. This
information may then be sent to the server computing devices 210 and relayed to the dispatched
vehicle, such as vehicle 100. These pickup and destination locations may be predefined (e.g.,
specific areas of a parking lot, etc.) or may simply be any location within a service area of the
vehicles.
[0074]          When a vehicle arrives for a user, the computer 110 may attempt to authenticate
the user.    For example, using a wireless connection having a short range communication
protocol such as Bluetooth LE, the computer 110 and the client computing device may
communicate at some predetermined distance, such as 25 meters. Once the communication is
established, for example, using one of the wireless network connections 156 the client
computing device may be authenticated using any known authentication technique as an
approximation or proxy for authenticating the user. In some cases, the authentication may occur
even before the vehicle has reached the selected location if the vehicle passes by the user's client
computing device and makes the wireless connection.
[00751          Once the user (and/or the user's client computing device) is authenticated to a
sufficient degree and has reached a certain threshold distance from the vehicle 100, for example
10 meters or less, the doors 406 may automatically unlock, and in some cases open up, to allow
the user to enter the vehicle.
[00761          Once the user (and/or the user's client computing device) has entered the vehicle,
the computer 110 may display a welcome screen on the internal electronic display 152. This
welcome screen may provide instructions to the user (now a passenger) on how to use the
vehicle. For example, the instructions may include requesting that the passenger shut the doors
406 if needed and buckle his or her seatbelt. Sensors associated with the seats, doors, and
seatbelts may be used to determine if the passenger has complied. At this time, button 614 may
be in the inactive state or the first state 802 of FIGURE 8.

                                                 20
[00771          Once the passenger has complied with the instructions, the computer 110 may
activate the button 614 or change button 614 to the second state 804. In this regard, if the user
does not close the door or buckle the seat belt, the computer 110 may not allow the passenger to
use the vehicle for a trip by preventing button 614 from changing out of the inactive or first state
802. As noted above, when the passenger is ready to initiate a trip to the destination, he or she
may press or otherwise activate button 614. In response, the computer 110 may initiate the
necessary systems to control the vehicle autonomously to the destination (drop off location).
[00781          Once the passenger has activated button 614, the computer 110 may also indicate
on the internal electronic display 152 that the vehicle 100 is getting ready to move. In addition,
a passenger specific or default soundscape may begin playing through the speakers 154 and the
internal electronic display 152 may then provide a "ride screen" which provides information
such as an estimated time of arrival, information about the destination, current time, weather,
etc.
[00791          Once the passenger has activated the button 614 to initiate a trip to the
destination and the computer 110 is controlling the vehicle autonomously, the computer 110
may change the state of button 614 to the third state 806 where button 614 becomes a "PULL
OVER" button. If, during a ride, the passenger were to activate the button 614 when in the
"PULL OVER" state, the computer 110 would respond by identifying a reasonable place to stop
or pull the vehicle over before the destination is reached. The computer 110 may also provide a
notification to the user that the vehicle is attempting to pull over on the internal electronic
display 152. This pull over function may also be achieved by calling a concierge or by using the
application on the passenger's client computing device.
[0080]          Thus, the pull over button may allow the passenger to stop the vehicle mid-trip.
In order to do so, it is important to balance the desire to respond quickly with the need to find a
reasonable place to stop the vehicle. As an example, when a user presses the pull over button,
the button may revert back to the second state 804 and become a "GO" button once again.
[00811          Once the button 614 has been activated in the third state 806, the computer 110
may also display some version of: "Preparing to pull over. To cancel, press the Go button" on
the internal electronic display 152. In this regard, the passenger may cancel the request to pull
the vehicle over by pressing or otherwise activating button 614 again before the vehicle has

                                                 21
begun to physically pull over, for example by slowing down or changing lanes. In one example,
the display may also show a counter that counts down for a predetermined period of time, for
example, 3 seconds. In this regard, if user presses the "Go" button (button 614 when in the
second state 804), the countdown will clear and the trip will continue. If user does nothing, the
counter counts down to zero. When the counter reaches zero, the computer 110 may begin to
pull the vehicle over, and the passenger may not be able to prevent the vehicle from pulling
over. In one example, if vehicle is not in the right most lane, vehicle will lane change to the
right most lane as soon as and as safely as possible.
[0082]         The computer 110 will then pull over the vehicle to the side of the road within a
short period, for example, within 10 seconds or more or less. In order to do so, the computer
110 may look for an open space, such as room on a shoulder to pull out of the vehicle's current
lane based on where the vehicle will be in the next 10 seconds. If no preferred pull over location
can be found, and the vehicle is not in an unsafe location (e.g., train tracks, intersections, busy
roadway, intersection), the computer may use the signaling system to turn on the hazard lights
and come to a stop in the vehicle's current lane (preferably on the edge of the lane) even if it is a
busy road.
[00831         Again, the emergency stop button 612, can be used by the passenger to
immediately initiate an emergency stop. As discussed above with regard to FIGURES 7A-7C,
the passenger may be required to remove a cover, such as flip up cover 712, and then activate
button 612, by pulling up or pressing on the button 612 as needed.
[0084]         If such an emergency stop is initiated, the computer 110 may stop the vehicle
within a very short period, such as 3 seconds or more or less depending, for example, on the
speed and braking power of the vehicle. The computer may also display a notification to the
passenger indication that the emergency stop button has been activated and help has been called
(either a concierge or an emergency response center, e.g., a 911 call center).       In addition, a
concierge may be automatically connected to the vehicle in order to assess the status of the
passenger and vehicle, for example by using a video or still camera to view the passenger and
check on his or her safety.

                                                  22
[00851           Once the vehicle is stopped, if the doors were previously locked during the trip,
the doors may then unlock and, if not previously locked, simply open and allow the user to exit
the vehicle. As part of this process, the vehicle may de-authenticate.
[00861           FIGURES 9A and 9B are an example flow diagram 900 of some of the aspects
described above that may be performed by one or more computing devices of an autonomous
vehicle, such as computer 110 of vehicle 100.          In this example, the computer 110 receives
dispatch instructions including a pickup location and a drop off location at block 902.             The
vehicle's computer then maneuver's the vehicle to the pickup location at block 904. Once the
vehicle has arrived, the computer 110 authenticates a client computing device of a passenger as
described above at block 906. At block 910, if the client computing device is not authenticated,
the computer waits at block 910 until the authentication is successful or until further instructions
are received, for example, from the server computing device 210 or concierge work station 240.
When the authentication is successful, the computer 110 may unlock the doors of the vehicle
and provide instructions to the passenger at block 912. As noted above, these instructions may
include asking the passenger to close the door and fasten his or her seat belt.
[00871           The computer then determines whether the instructions have been completed at
block 914. If not, the computer may wait and repeat the instructions as needed at block 916.
The computer may even wait for instructions, for example, from the server computing device
210 or concierge work station 240.        Once the instructions are completed, the computer 110
activates a first button by changing the first button from an inactive to a first active state at block
918.    This button may correspond to button 614.            In this regard, the inactive state may
correspond to the first state 802 and the first active state may correspond to the second state 804
as discussed above.
[00881           The computer 110 receives user input at the first button at block 920.              In
response, the computer 110 maneuvers the vehicle 101 to the drop off location and changes the
state of the first button to a second active state at block 922. In this example, the second active
state may correspond to the third state 804 of button 614.
[00891           Continuing to FIGURE 9B, the flow diagram then breaks into three separate
branches; A, B, and C. In branch A, the computer 110 receives user input at a second button at
block 924. This second button may correspond to the emergency stopping button 612. In this

                                                 23
regard, the computer immediately stops the vehicle and changes the state to the first button to
the inactive state at block 926. Again, in this example, the computer 110 may change the state
of button 612 to the inactive or first state 802. Once stopped, the computer 110 unlocks the
doors at block 928.
[0090]          In branch B, the computer 110 receives user input at the first button at block 924.
Again, the first button is in the second active state corresponding to the third state 806. In this
regard, the computer begins a countdown and changes the state of the first button to the first
active state at block 932. This gives the passenger the opportunity to cancel the request to pull
the vehicle over. The computer 110 then waits to see if it receives user input at the first button
during the countdown at block 934. If so, the flow diagram returns to block 922 of FIGURE 9B,
where the computer 110 maneuvers the vehicle to the drop off location and changes the state of
the first button back to the second active state. Returning to block 934 of FIGURE 9B, if the
computer does not receive user input at the first button during the countdown, the computer
looks for a safe place to pull the vehicle over as described above at block 936. The computer
110 eventually pulls the vehicle over at block 938, and once stopped, the computer 110 unlocks
the doors at block 940.
[0091]          In branch C, the computer 110 receives no user input at the first button or the
second button while maneuvering the vehicle to the drop off location. As such, once the vehicle
reaches the drop off location, the computer may stop the vehicle at block 942 and at block and
once stopped, the computer 110 unlocks the doors at block 944.
[0092]          As noted above, in some examples, the passenger may also provide one or more
intermediate stopping locations. In such an example, once the vehicle has reached an
intermediate stopping location, the computer 110 may again stop the vehicle and unlock the
doors (as shown in blocks 942 and 944). At this time, the computer 110 may also change the
state of the first button from the second active to the first active state until the passenger has
either opened the doors or taken off his or her seatbelt. As such, the flow may return to block
912 of FIGURE 9A to ask the passenger to close the door and fasten the seatbelt if necessary
and proceed to blocks 914 and/or 916 as applicable.
[00931          Again, as discussed above, rather than having a single multipurpose button such
as button 614, two buttons with different states of activation may be used along with the

                                                   24
emergency stopping button to communicate requests to the vehicle's computer. In order to
differentiate between the states, the buttons may display information to the user to indicate the
current state of the button as shown in FIGURE 8. In this regard, both buttons may initially be
in an inactive state (see state 802 of FIGURE 8) where the vehicle is not ready to begin a trip,
such as when a door is open or a seatbelt has not been buckled. Once the vehicle is ready to
begin a trip, only one of the buttons (the first button) may be changed by the vehicle's computer
to an active or "GO" state (see state 804 of FIGURE 8) where the first button may be used to
communicate a request from a passenger to the vehicle's computer to being a trip to a
destination. The second button may remain in the inactive state until the vehicle has begun a
trip.
[0094]          Once a trip has been initiated by activating the first button, the first button may
become inactive again, and the second button may be changed by the vehicle's computer to an
active state (see state 806 of FIGURE 8) where the second button may be used to communicate
a request from a passenger to the vehicle's computer to pull the vehicle over. In this regard, only
one of these two buttons may be available to be used by the passenger at a time. When the
vehicle has stopped or pulled over, the second button may be changed by the vehicle's computer
to the inactive state again, while the first button may be changed by the vehicle's computer to the
active or inactive state depending upon the circumstances of the stop.
[0095]          Unless otherwise stated, the foregoing alternative examples are not mutually
exclusive, but may be implemented in various combinations to achieve unique advantages. As
these and other variations and combinations of the features discussed above can be utilized
without departing from the subject matter defined by the claims, the foregoing description of the
embodiments should be taken by way of illustration rather than by way of limitation of the
subject matter defined by the claims.        In addition, the provision of the examples described
herein, as well as clauses phrased as "such as," "including" and the like, should not be
interpreted as limiting the subject matter of the claims to the specific examples; rather, the
examples are intended to illustrate only one of many possible embodiments. Further, the same
reference numbers in different drawings can identify the same or similar elements.

                                            25
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[00961         The present invention enjoys wide industrial applicability including, but not
limited to, vehicles for maneuvering passengers to a destination, for example taking a trip,
autonomously.

                                                    26
CLAIMS
1.       A method for controlling a vehicle, the method comprising:
         displaying a first indicator at a user input button to indicate the availability of a first
command state for the user input button, wherein when the user input button is in the first
command state, input at the user input button initiates an autonomous driving mode of the
vehicle;
         receiving first user input at the user input button;
         in response to receiving the first user input at the user input button, controlling the
vehicle, by one or more processors, in the autonomous driving mode;
         in response to the first user input at the user input button, changing the display of the
first indicator to a display of a second indicator to indicate the availability of a second command
state for the user input button;
         when the user input button is in the second command state, receiving second user input
at the user input button; and
         in response to the second user input, stopping, by the one or more processors, the
vehicle.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the stopping the vehicle includes pulling the vehicle
over to a side of a roadway and stopping movement of the vehicle.
3.       The method of claim 1, further comprising, determining, by the one or more processors,
that the vehicle is ready for the autonomous driving mode, and wherein displaying the first
indicator occurs after determining that the vehicle is ready for the autonomous driving mode.
4.       The method of claim 3, further comprising, in conjunction with displaying the first
indicator, changing the state of the user input button from an inactive state to the first command
state.
5.       The method of claim 1, further comprising, after receiving the second user input,
changing the state of the user input button from the second command state to the first command
state.
6.       The method of claim 5, further comprising, after receiving the second user input,

                                                     27
changing the display of the second indicator back to the first indicator to indicate the change in
the state of the user input button from the second command state to the first command state.
7.       The method of claim 1, wherein stopping the vehicle includes bringing the vehicle to a
stop within a predetermined period of time associated with the second command state.
8.       The method of claim 7, further comprising, receiving user input at a second user input
button configured to communicate a request to stop the vehicle within a second predetermined
period of time less than the predetermined period of time.
9.       The method of claim 1, wherein the second command state corresponds to pulling the
vehicle over such that the second user input corresponds to a request to pull the vehicle over.
10.      The method of claims,          further comprising, receiving information identifying             a
destination from a client computing device associated with a passenger, such that controlling the
vehicle includes maneuvering the vehicle to the destination.
11.      A method for controlling a vehicle, the method comprising:
         displaying a first indicator at a first user input button to indicate the availability of a first
command state for the first user input button, wherein when the first user input button is in the
first command state, input at the first user input button initiates an autonomous driving mode of
the vehicle;
         after displaying the first indicator, receiving first user input at the first user input button;
         in response to the first user input at the first user input button, controlling the vehicle, by
one or more processors, in the autonomous driving mode;
         in response to receiving the first user input at the first user input button, changing the
first indicator to indicate a new inactive state for the first user input button and displaying a
second indicator at a second user input button to indicate the availability of a second command
state;
         after displaying the second indicator and receiving the first user input, receiving second
user input at the second user input button; and
         in response to receiving the second user input, stopping, by the one or more processors,
the vehicle.

                                                   28
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the stopping the vehicle includes pulling the vehicle
over to a side of a roadway and stopping movement of the vehicle.
13.     The method of claim 11, further comprising determining, by the one or more processors,
that the vehicle is ready for the autonomous driving mode, and wherein displaying the first
indicator occurs after determining that the vehicle is ready for the autonomous driving mode.
14.     The method of claim 13, further comprising, in conjunction with changing the first
indicator, changing the state of the first user input button to the inactive state.
15.     The method of claim 11, further comprising, in conjunction with displaying the second
indicator, changing the state of the second user input button from an inactive state to the second
command state.
16.     The method of claim 11, wherein stopping the vehicle includes bringing the vehicle to a
stop within a predetermined period of time associated with the second command state.
17.     The method of claim 16, further comprising, receiving user input at a third user input
button configured to communicate a request to stop the vehicle within a second predetermined
period of time less than the predetermined period of time.
18.     The method of claim 11, further comprising, after receiving the second user input,
changing the first indicator from the new state to indicate the availability of the first command
state for the user input button.
19.     The method of claim 11, wherein the second command state corresponds to pulling the
vehicle over such that the second user input corresponds to a request to pull the vehicle over.
20.     The method of claim 11, further comprising, receiving information identifying a
destination from a client computing device associated with a passenger, such that controlling the
vehicle includes maneuvering the vehicle to the destination.

                          29
                     Waymo LLC
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
              SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
