                                       Abstract
  Disclosed is a hollow desk panel, the desk panel (1) comprising one upper panel
  (11) and one lower bottom plate (12) which are stacked together, a metal frame (13)
  being provided at an edge of a bottom face of a table plate, an upper panel side
5 edge (113) extending downwards being provided at an edge of the upper panel
  (11), the metal frame (13) facing towards a protrusion in the horizontal direction,
  and the protrusion being able to protect a joint between the upper panel (11) and
  the lower bottom plate (12). An outer edge of the desk panel (1) has a
  double-layered visual sense, giving a strong stereoscopic sense.

  1/10
1

                                  HOLLOW DESK PANEL
                                      Technical Field
   The present invention relates to a hollow table top, particularly to a frame structure
   of a hollow table top.
 5
                                        Background
   Plastic table tops have improved from a single thick heavy-weight plate to the
   current light-weight structure having two layers of thin plates. The table tops have a
   blow molded type and vacuum formed type. The hollow table top includes a top
   plate and a bottom plate being stacked together. The bottom plate is disposed with
10 concaves. A metal frame is disposed at the inner side of the periphery surrounding
   the stacked top plate and the bottom plate. Existing vacuum formed table top needs
   vertical flanges at the inner side of the periphery of the top and bottom plate to
   cover the metal frame. The joint between the top plate and the bottom plate is
   exposed. During the use, fingers or clothes may be caught or clamped by the
15 vertical flanges, leading to situations such as finger injuries, cloth damages or
   break of the vertical flanges. The embedded metal frame only acts as a strength
   enhancement and connecting the support element connection but cannot protect
   the connecting points connecting the top plate and the bottom plate.
                                         Summary
20 The present invention provides a frame of a table top with stable structure and high
   security to overcome the disadvantages of the related art. The technical solution of
   the present disclosure is that:
   A hollow table top, comprising: a top plate and a bottom plate, the bottom plate
   disposed with concaves, an edge of a bottom surface of the table top disposed with
25 a metal frame, an edge of the top plate disposed with a top plate side extending
   downwardly, the metal frame disposed with a protruding portions in a horizontal
   direction, extending from the top plate side.
                                              1

   In another preferred embodiment, the protruding portion of the metal frame is a
   crimping bending upwardly from a bottom portion of a side facing a top plate side,
   and the crimping covers a bottom portion of the top plate side.
   In another preferred embodiment, the protruding portion of the metal frame is
 5 proximate to a bottom portion of a top plate side.
   In another preferred embodiment, the bottom portion of the top plate side bends
   towards the metal frame. A side surface of the hollow table top is substantially
   planar.
   In another preferred embodiment, the edge of the bottom plate is disposed with a
10 bottom plate side extending downwardly, and the crimping covers a bottom portion
   of a bottom plate side.
   In another preferred embodiment, the bottom portion of the bottom plate side bends
   towards the metal frame.
   In another preferred embodiment, a bottom portion of the bottom plate is disposed
15 with a fixing portion extending downwardly, the fixing portion is disposed at the side
   of the top plate side opposite to the metal frame, a screw laterally passes through
   the fixing portion to lock to the metal frame.
   Compared to the conventional technology, the technical solution of the present
   disclosure has following advantages:
20 1. The external side of the metal frame extends out of the top plate side, and covers
   the bottom portion of the top plate side or abuts against the bottom portion of the
   top plate side. When being used, the bottom portion of the top plate does not be
   folded up, improving the integration of the table top. Fingers or clothes do not be
   clamped by the vertical flange, providing usage security. At the same time, the
25 crimping covers the top plate side, the external edge of the table top provides
   stereo visual perception.
                                               2

   2. The metal frame is detachably locked to the bottom plate, the structure is simple
   and more stable.
                              Brief description of the drawings
   The present disclosure will be further described with the drawings and the
 5 embodiments.
   FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic perspective diagram of the table.
   FIG. 2 illustrates a front view of the table of FIG. 1.
   FIG. 3 illustrates an enlargement diagram of A in FIG. 2.
   FIG. 4 illustrates a schematic diagram of a frame of another table top.
10 FIG. 5 illustrates a schematic diagram of a table of a third embodiment.
   FIG. 6 illustrates a schematic diagram of the bottom portion of the table of the third
   embodiment.
   FIG. 7 illustrates an enlargement diagram of B in FIG. 5.
   FIG. 8 illustrates a front view of a table of a fourth embodiment.
15 FIG. 9 illustrates a schematic diagram of the bottom portion of the fourth
   embodiment.
   FIG. 10 illustrates an enlargement diagram of C in FIG. 8.
                         Detailed description of the embodiments
   Embodiment I:
20 Referring to FIG. 1, FIG. 2 and FIG. 3, the table includes a table top 1 and table
   legs 2. The table legs 2 are foldable and connected to the bottom of the table top 1.
   The table top 1 includes a top plate 11 and a bottom plate 12 being stacked
   together. The bottom plate 12 is disposed with concaves 12.1. The edge of the
   bottom surface of the top plate 1 is disposed with a metal frame 13. The bottom
25 plate 12 is supported by the metal frame 13. The metal frame 13 is detachably
                                                3

   locked to the bottom plate 12. A screw 14 passes through the metal frame 13
   upwards to lock to the bottom plate 12.
   The edge of the top plate 11 is disposed with a top plate side 112 extending
   downwardly. The bottom portion of the top plate side 12 bends towards the metal
 5 frame 13. The edge of the bottom plate 12 is disposed with a bottom plate side 122
   extending downwardly. The bottom portion of the bottom plate side 122 bends
   towards the metal plate 13. The top plate side 112 and the bottom plate side 122
   contact each other. The metal frame 13 is disposed with a protruding portion, which,
   in this embodiment is a crimping 132 bending upwardly from the bottom portion of
10 the side faced to the top plate side 112. The crimping 132 covers the bottom portion
   of the top plate side 112 and the bottom portion of the bottom plate side 122.
   The bottom portion of the top plate side and the bottom portion of the bottom plate
   side bend towards the metal frame so as to provide a space for the crimping and
   keep the crimping and the external edge of the table top vertically aligned, resulting
15 in a planar side surface, and enhancing the attractiveness of the table top.
   Embodiment II:
   Referring to FIG. 4, the second embodiment differs from the first embodiment in
   that: the edge of the bottom plate 12 does not have a bottom plate side, the
   crimping 132 only coves the top plate side 112. The bottom portion of the bottom
20 plate 12 extends downwards with a fixing portion 124, which is disposed at the side
   of the metal frame 13 opposite to the top plate side 112. A screw 15 passes
   through the fixing portion 124 laterally to lock to the metal frame 13.
   Embodiment III:
   Referring to FIG. 5, FIG. 6 and FIG. 7, the table of this embodiment is a square
25 table comprising a table top 1 and table legs 2. The table legs 2 are foldable and
   connected to the bottom portion of the table top 1. The table top 1 includes a top
   plate 11 and a bottom plate 12 being stacked together. The bottom plate is
                                               4

   disposed with concaves 12.1. The edge of the bottom surface of the table top 1 is
   disposed with a metal frame 13, which supports the bottom plate 12. The metal
   frame 13 is locked to the bottom plate 12. A screw 14 (not shown) passes through
   the metal frame 13 upwards to lock to the bottom plate 12.
 5 The edge of the top plate 11 is disposed with a top plate side 112 extending
   downwardly. The edge of the bottom plate 12 is disposed with a bottom plate side
   122 extending downwardly. The top plate side 112 and the bottom plate side 122
   contact and are attached to each other. The metal frame 13 is disposed with a
   protruding portion 131, which is a substantially lateral straight edge at the bottom
10 portion of the metal frame. The bottom portion of the top plate side 112 ends at the
   protruding portion 131 of the metal frame.
   Embodiment IV:
   Referring to FIG. 8, FIG. 9 and FIG. 10, a table of this embodiment is a rectangular
   table with a foldable table top, the table includes a table top 1 and table legs 2. The
15 table legs 2 are foldable and connected to the bottom portion of the table top 1. The
   table top 1 includes a top plate 11 and a bottom plate 12 being stacked together.
   The bottom plate is disposed with concaves 12.1. The edge of the bottom surface
   of the table top 1 is disposed with a metal frame 13, which supports on the bottom
   plate 12. The metal frame 13 is locked to the bottom plate 12.
20 The edge of the top plate 11 is disposed with a top plate side 112 extending
   downwardly. The top plate side 112 and the bottom plate side 122 contact and are
   attached to each other. The metal frame 13 is disposed with a protruding portion
   131. The bottom portion of the top plate side 112 ends at the protruding portion 131
   of the metal frame.
25 Although the present invention has been described with reference to the preferred
   embodiments, it is apparent that a variety of modifications and changes may be
   made without departing from the scope of the patent for invention.
                                               5

                               Industrial applicability
The present invention provides a protruding portion horizontally oriented at the
metal plane to protect the joint between the top plate and the bottom plate.
                                          6

                                            Claims
   1. A hollow table top, comprising:
        a top plate and
        a bottom plate,
 5      the bottom plate disposed with concaves, an edge of a bottom surface of the
        table top disposed with a metal frame, an edge of the top plate disposed with a
        top plate side extending downwardly, the metal frame disposed with a
        protruding portions in a horizontal direction, extending from the top plate side.
   2. The hollow table top according to claim 1, wherein the protruding portion of the
10    metal frame is a crimping bending upwardly from a bottom portion of a side
      facing a top plate side, and the crimping covers a bottom portion of the top plate
      side.
   3. The hollow table top according to claim 1, wherein the protruding portion of the
      metal frame is proximate to a bottom portion of a top plate side.
15 4. The hollow table top according to claim 2, wherein the bottom portion of the top
      plate side bends towards the metal frame.
   5. The hollow table top according to claim 2, wherein the edge of the bottom plate is
      disposed with a bottom plate side extending downwardly, and the crimping
      covers a bottom portion of a bottom plate side.
20 6. The hollow table top according to claim 5, wherein the bottom portion of the
      bottom plate side bends towards the metal frame.
   7. The hollow table top according to claim 2, wherein a side surface of the hollow
      table top is substantially planar.
   8. The hollow table top according to claim 2, wherein a bottom portion of the bottom
25    plate is disposed with a fixing portion extending downwardly, the fixing portion is
                                               7

   disposed at the side of the top plate side opposite to the metal frame, a screw
   laterally passes through the fixing portion to lock to the metal frame.
9. The hollow table top according to claim 2, wherein the side surface of the hollow
   table top is non-planar.
                                            8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      4/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      6/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      7/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      8/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      9/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      10/10

