                                           ABSTRACT
In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a catalyst useful for catalytic
pyrolysis of biomass, said catalyst comprising:
(i) matrix material comprising a support and/or binder, and
(ii) at least one metal oxide on the matrix material, wherein the metal oxide comprises metal
selected from the group consisting of tungsten, chromium, cobalt, molybdenum, nickel, and
combinations thereof.

WO 2014/089131                                                             PCT/US2013/072948
  CATALYST COMPOSITIONS AND USE THEREOF IN CATALYTIC BIOMASS
                                           PYROLYSIS
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001]      The benefit of priority under 35 USC §119 of United States Provisional Patent
 Application 61/733,142 filed December 4, 2012 in the names of David C. Dayton, Maruthi
 Pavani, John R. Carpenter III, and Matthew Von Holle for "Catalyst Compositions and
 Use Thereof in Catalytic Biomass Pyrolysis" is hereby claimed. The disclosure of such
 United States Provisional Patent Application 61/733,142 is hereby incorporated herein by
 reference, in its entirety, for all purposes. The disclosure of United States Provisional
 Patent Application 61/607,866 filed March 7, 2012 is also incorporated herein by
 reference, in its entirety, for all purposes.
                         GOVERNMENT RIGHTS IN THE INVENTION
 [0002]      The present invention was made with United States Government support under
 Grant No. DE-AR0000021 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy/Advanced
 Research Projects Agency-Energy (DOE/ARPA-E). The United States Government has
 certain rights in the invention.
                                               FIELD
 [0003]      The     present    disclosure   relates to catalyst  compositions    useful   in
 thermochemical conversion of biomass to produce liquid bio-crude oil that can be
 upgraded to hydrocarbon products, e.g., transportation fuels, as well as to catalytic
 biomass pyrolysis systems and processes utilizing such catalyst compositions.
                             DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART
 [0004]      In the effort to supplement and ultimately replace conventional fuels derived
 from decreasing petroleum supplies, increasing focus is being directed to fuels from
 renewable sources, including biological sources, i.e., biofuels. Currently, biofuels such as
                                                - 1-

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 ethanol are largely produced from grains, but a large untapped resource of plant biomass
 exists in the form of lignocellulosic material, as a feedstock that is potentially useful for
 bioenergy and bioproducts production.
 [0005]      As compared to well-developed processes for converting grain starch content
 to sugars for subsequent conversion to ethanol, conversion of lignocellulose to biofuel is
 much more difficult.     Pyrolysis is a thermochemical process that holds potential for
 production of liquid transportation fuels from biomass starting materials.         Traditional
 biomass flash pyrolysis processes have demonstrated roughly 70% liquid product yield,
 but the pyrolysis oil product of such processes has limited use without additional
 upgrading or refining.    Currently, commercial biomass pyrolysis processes are utilized
 primarily to produce commodity chemicals for the food products industry. Fuel usage of
 raw pyrolysis oils has been demonstrated for electric power production in boilers, diesel
 engines, and, with limited success, turbines.
 [0006]      Pyrolysis of biomass involves       thermal depolymerization      of biomass      at
 moderate temperatures in the absence of added oxygen, and produces a mixture of solid,
 liquid and gaseous products, depending on the specific pyrolysis temperature and
 residence time conditions utilized in the process.    Charcoal yields of up to 35% can be
 achieved by slow pyrolysis at low temperature, high pressure, and long residence times.
 Flash pyrolysis is employed to optimize production of liquids including water and oil. The
 flash pyrolysis product is commonly referred to as bio-crude. The bio-crude can be further
 processed, e.g., by phase separation to remove water therefrom, to yield bio-oil. In flash
 pyrolysis, high heating rates and short residence times facilitate rapid biomass pyrolysis
 while minimizing vapor cracking, to produce optimized liquid product yields with up to
 about 70% efficiency on a weight basis.
 [0007]      Bio-oil can be upgraded either at the source prior to full production, or after the
 formation of the liquid product. Currently, the most popular methods in post-production
 upgrading are oil cracking over solid acid catalysts, or hydrotreating in the presence of
 high pressure hydrogen and a hydrodesulfurization (HDS) catalyst.          Although both oil
 cracking and hydrotreating processes hold the potential to achieve reduced oxygen
 content, both of such upgrading processes are accompanied by the loss of hydrogen, in the
 form of water, and carbon in the form of carbon monoxide and/or carbon dioxide.
 [0008]      Hydrodeoxygenation     (HDO) is carried out at elevated temperature, e.g.,
 temperatures on the order of 200-450'C, and in the presence of HDO catalysts such as
                                             -2-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 sulfided CoMo or NiMo catalysts.             Loss of oxygen in the form of water during
 hydrotreating, and saturation to increase the hydrogen/carbon (H/C) ratio, lead to a high
 hydrogen demand. Externally supplied hydrogen typically is added during this process at
 high pressure, e.g., pressures on the order of 3-12 MPa. Hydrogen requirements can be
 substantial, e.g., theoretically on the order of 41 kg per ton of biomass, a factor that
 renders HDO generally uneconomical.           HDO can be conceptually characterized by the
 following equations:
                         C 6H8 0 4 + 6H 2 -- 6CH 2 + 4H 20
                         C 6H8 0 4 + 4.5H 2 -- 6CH1 .s + 4H 20
 [0009]      Cracking reactions in bio-oils can occur at atmospheric pressure using acid
 catalysts.   In catalytic cracking, deoxygenation can take place by one or more of
 dehydration, decarboxylation, and decarbonylation reactions. Dehydration reactions are
 chemical reactions that result in the loss of a water molecule (H 2 0) from the reactant.
 Decarbonylation reactions are chemical reactions that result in the loss of the carbon
 monoxide molecule (CO) from the reactant.            Decarboxylation reactions are chemical
 reactions that result in the loss of a carbon dioxide molecule (C0 2 ) from the reactant.
 Decarboxylation and decarbonylation reduce the oxygen content of the bio-oil by
 producing carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide respectively, increasing the heating value
 and density of the bio-oil.            While carbon is lost during decarboxylation       and
 decarbonylation, removal of oxygen as carbon dioxide or carbon monoxide reduces the
 hydrogen demand during hydroprocessing of the bio-oil. Dehydration, decarboxylation
 and decarbonlyation reactions can be controlled by modifying the reaction temperature,
 with lower temperatures favoring dehydration reaction, and higher temperatures favoring
 decarboxylation reaction.
 [0010]      A number of catalysts have been utilized in the catalytic cracking of pyrolysis
 oils. Examples include zeolites such as H-ZSM-5 and ultrastable Y-zeolite, mesoporous
 materials such as MCM-41 and Al-MCM-41, and heteropolyacids (HPAs). The primary
 disadvantage of heteropolyacids is that they are moderately soluble in polar solvents and
 lose their activity at higher temperatures as a result of loss of structural integrity. Major
 components of bio-oils (phenols, aldehydes, and carboxylic acids) have low reactivity on
 ZSM-5 and undergo thermal decomposition, producing coke.               Zeolite catalysts also
 deactivate quickly by coke formation resulting from decomposition of large organic
 molecules present in bio-oil, which blocks the pores and decreases the number of available
                                                -3-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 catalytic sites on such catalyst materials. The large amount of water vapor in bio-crudes
 also leads to dealumination of zeolite materials, which in turn results in loss of surface
 area and irreversible deactivation of such catalytic materials.
 [0011]       By comparison, catalytic cracking is regarded as a cheaper route for converting
 oxygenated feedstocks to lighter fractions. Nonetheless, catalytic cracking leads to higher
 coke formation levels, e.g., 8-25 weight percent, based on the weight of feedstock
 processed in the catalytic cracking process.        Thus, unlike conventional upgrading of
 petroleum crude oil, upgrading of high oxygen content (e.g., 35-50%) bio-crude to
 produce suitable quality biofuels, using traditional catalysts, will result in significant loss
 of hydrogen and carbon and subsequently decrease the conversion efficiency of the
 process. During these upgrading processes, only a fraction of the carbon present in the
 raw bio-oil ends up in the upgraded bio-oil product.
 [0012]       As in petroleum crude oil processing, coke deposition and catalyst stability are
 critical issues in biomass processing and bio-crude upgrading over conventional catalysts.
 In some cases, conventional catalysts are wholly unsuitable for bio-crude or biomass
 processing.
 [0013]       As an example, conventional sulfided CoMo HDS catalysts used in petroleum
 oil refining operations may be unsuitable for bio-crude hydrotreating due to low sulfur
 content of the initial biomass feedstock.        The low sulfur environment may result in
 reduction of sulfided CoMo or NiMo catalysts to elemental metal, followed by rapid coke
 deposition and catalyst deactivation.      In such situation, the addition of sulfur donor
 compounds to the feedstock to maintain catalytic activity is undesirable, since it may
 substantially complicate the process and potentially add sulfur to the fuel product.
 [0014]       Cracking of bio-crude over acidic catalysts such as zeolites and supported
 metal oxides (e.g., alumina), which are susceptible to rapid deactivation due to coking,
 leads to relatively high yields of low molecular weight hydrocarbons, e.g., pentane and
 lower carbon number compounds.
 [0015]       Accordingly, improved catalysts with better stability and coke formation
 resistance with higher selectivity towards bio-oil formation are desirable for biomass
 conversion to bio-oil.
 [0016]       Considering the processing of bio-oil in further detail, removal of the
 remaining oxygen by dehydration would require over 80% of the hydrogen in the bio-oil if
 no external hydrogen were supplied.       The resulting product would be more hydrogen
                                              -4-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 deficient than coal. This underscores the practical necessity of adding substantial amounts
 of externally supplied hydrogen to make up for the hydrogen lost in the formation of water
 and to meet the need to increase the H/C ratio to a value in a range of from 1.9 to 2.4. For
 example, approximately 20 to 45 kg of hydrogen is required for one ton of biomass to
 yield a theoretical maximum of between 75 to 98 gallons of biofuel per ton of biomass. A
 number of analyses indicate that upgrading of bio-crude by hydrotreating may not be
 economically attractive because of the large volume of external hydrogen required. It will
 be appreciated that similar issues occur in upgrading of bio-crude by conventional
 cracking over acid catalysts.
 [0017]       Accordingly, conventional methodologies such as hydrotreating and cracking
 do not enable higher efficiencies to be achieved during conversion of biomass to upgraded
 bio-oil. In order to achieve high conversion efficiencies, a catalytic biomass pyrolysis
 process is desirable that selectively deoxygenates the biomass with minimal hydrogen and
 carbon loss.
 [0018]       The foregoing underscores the need for improved processes for transformation
 of biomass into high-value commodities and/or corresponding stable intermediates.
                                          SUMMARY
 [0019]       The present invention relates to catalyst compositions having utility for
 thermochemical conversion of biomass to produce liquid bio-crude oil, and to catalytic
 biomass pyrolysis systems and processes utilizing such catalyst compositions.
 [0020]       In one aspect, the disclosure relates to a catalyst useful for catalytic pyrolysis
 of biomass, in which the catalyst comprises:
 (i) matrix material comprising a support and/or binder, and
 (ii) at least one metal oxide on the matrix material, wherein the metal oxide comprises
 metal selected from the group consisting of tungsten, chromium, cobalt, molybdenum,
 nickel, and combinations thereof.
 [0021]       In specific embodiments, the catalyst may be constituted so that Lewis acid and
 Bronsted acid sites are present on the catalyst such that the Lewis to Bronsted ratio is in a
 range of from 0.1 to 50 based on the ratio of pyridine absorption infrared band heights
 measured (cm-1/cm-1).
                                              -5-

WO 2014/089131                                                                 PCT/US2013/072948
 [0022]      In another aspect, the disclosure relates to a catalyst useful for catalyzing
 pyrolysis of biomass, in which the catalyst comprises a zirconia support and tungsten
 oxide on the zirconia support at a tungsten oxide loading of from 10 to 20% by weight,
 based on total weight of zirconia and tungsten oxide.
 [0023]      Such tungstated zirconia catalyst in specific embodiments can be of particulate
 form with an average particle size in a range of from 20 to 150 pm, and with an acid site
 loading, as measured by ammonia adsorption, in a range of from 3 to 10 mL of NH 3 per
 gram of catalyst, wherein Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites are present on the catalyst at
 a Lewis to Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in a range of from 0.1 to 50.
 [0024]      A further aspect the disclosure relates to a process for catalytic pyrolysis of
 biomass, comprising:
 reacting a biomass starting material under pyrolysis conditions in the presence of a catalyst
 to yield a pyrolysis reaction product; and regenerating the catalyst used in the pyrolysis
 reaction, to remove coke deposited on the catalyst and yield regenerated catalyst for use in
 the pyrolysis reaction, in which the catalyst used in the process comprises catalyst of the
 present disclosure.
 [0025]      In a still further aspect, the disclosure relates to a system for catalytic pyrolysis
 of biomass, comprising a pyrolysis reactor adapted to react biomass starting material under
 pyrolysis conditions in the presence of catalyst to yield pyrolysis product, and a
 regenerator adapted to receive coked catalyst from the pyrolysis reactor and to regenerate
 same for recirculation to the pyrolysis reactor, wherein the pyrolysis reactor is provided
 with catalyst of the present disclosure.
 [0026]      Other aspects, features and embodiments of the disclosure will be more fully
 apparent from the ensuing description and appended claims.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0027]      FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a catalytic biomass pyrolysis process system
 according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0028]      FIG. 2 is a schematic representation of a transport reactor system, similar to
 circulating fluid bed reactor systems utilized in conventional petroleum refining
 operations, in which catalyst of the present disclosure may be employed to carry out
 catalytic biomass pyrolysis.
                                                -6-

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 [0029]      FIG. 3 is a graph of x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns for tungstated zirconia
 catalyst precursor samples calcined at 600'C (Sample RTI-A9-6), 700'C (Sample RTI
 A9), and 800'C (Sample RTI-A9-7).
 [0030]      FIG. 4 is a graph of XRD patterns for fresh (Sample RTI-A9-3 (fresh)) and
 spent (Sample RTI-A9-3 (spent)) tungstated zirconia catalyst.
 [0031]      FIG. 5 is a graph of ammonia temperature programmed desorption (TPD)
 profiles for the tungstated zirconia catalyst samples identified in FIG. 3 (Sample RTI-A9
 6, Sample RTI-A9, and Sample RTI-A9-7).
 [0032]      FIG. 6 is a graph of ammonia TPD profiles for fresh ("Fresh") Sample RTI
 A9-3 and spent ("Spent") Sample RTI-A9-3 tungstated zirconia catalyst.
 [0033]      FIG. 7 shows pyridine FT-IR spectra for fresh tungstated zirconia catalyst
 (Sample RTI-A9-3) as a function of desorption temperature in GC.
 [0034]      FIG. 8 shows pyridine FTIR spectra for spent tungstated zirconia catalyst
 (Sample RTI-A9-3) as a function of desorption temperature in 0C.
 [0035]      FIG. 9 is a computer screen shot of mass spectrometer data from 6 days of
 testing tungstated zirconia catalyst (Sample         RTI-A9-3),    covering   75 cycles  of
 reaction/regeneration, using guaiacol as a model compound in an automated fixed bed
 micro reactor system.
 [0036]      FIG. 10 shows the mass spectrometer data from a single cycle in extended
 testing (100 reaction/regeneration cycles) for guaiacol deoxygenation with the tungstated
 zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst at 450 0 C.
 [0037]      FIG. 11 is a graph of percent guaiacol conversion for each cycle shown in FIG.
 9 during extended testing of guaiacol deoxygenation with tungstated zirconia RTI-A9
 catalyst at 450 0 C.
 [0038]      FIG. 12 is a graph of product distribution from each cycle shown in FIG. 9
 during extended testing of guaiacol deoxygenation with the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9
 catalyst, excluding the water signal, shown as an area percent, for each of carbon dioxide,
 benzene, toluene, phenol, and methyl phenol.
 [0039]      FIG. 13 is a graph of carbon conversion efficiency to bio-crude prior to
 hydroprocessing (as a percentage of feedstock carbon) plotted as a function of oxygen
 content (as a weight percent of the bio-crude), for bio-crude produced by catalytic fast
 pyrolysis with various catalyst materials, and for bio-crude produced by pyrolysis of white
 oak feedstock using the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst.
                                              -7-

WO 2014/089131                                                                 PCT/US2013/072948
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0040]       As used herein, the singular forms a      "and", and "the" include plural referents
 unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 [0041]       As used herein, the term "bio-crude" refers to the fraction of reaction products
 obtained from a pyrolysis reaction that is liquid at ambient condition, and the term "bio
 oil" refers to the organic fraction(s) of the liquid pyrolysis product (bio-crude liquid). The
 liquid pyrolysis product typically comprises water and a mixture of hydrophilic and
 hydrophobic phase organic compounds. This bio-crude may be processed to remove water
 and recover bio-oil. The bio-oil may then be processed in operations such as distillation
 and/or catalytic processing to transform it into a biofuel, such as bio-diesel, bio-gasoline,
 bio-jet fuel, or the like. In some instances, the bio-oil may have a composition that renders
 it suitable for co-processing with traditional petroleum crude oil or refinery intermediates
 like vacuum gas oil (VGO) or light-cycle oil (LCO) in existing oil refineries.
 [0042]       The disclosure, as variously set out herein in respect of specific features,
 aspects and embodiments, may in particular implementations be constituted as comprising,
 consisting, or consisting essentially of, some or all of such features, aspects and
 embodiments.      Further, elements      and components      of such    features, aspects    and
 embodiments may be aggregated to constitute various further implementations of the
 disclosure.
 [0043]       The disclosure therefore contemplates such features, aspects and embodiments,
 and their constituent elements and components, or a selected one or ones thereof, in
 various permutations and combinations, as being within the scope of the disclosure.
 [0044]       The    present    disclosure   relates  to   catalyst  compositions     useful   in
 thermochemical conversion of biomass to produce liquid bio-crude oil that can be
 upgraded to hydrocarbon products, e.g., transportation fuels, as well as to catalytic
 biomass pyrolysis systems and processes utilizing such catalyst compositions.
 [0045]       The catalyst compositions of the disclosure have been demonstrated to produce
 low (< 20 wt%) oxygen content bio-crude, while minimizing over-cracking and coke
 formation. Catalytic biomass pyrolysis processes utilizing such catalyst compositions can
 achieve bio-crude yields significantly in excess of 20%, and carbon conversion efficiency
 in the liquid product exceeding 40%.
                                                -8 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 [0046]       The catalyst compositions of the present disclosure achieve an effective
 balance of catalytic activity and low coke formation susceptibility by an appropriate
 tunable ratio of Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites. In various embodiments, the catalyst
 compositions include promoters that are effective to improve activity of the catalyst or to
 impart other desirable functional characteristics, such as increased hydrogen production
 and/or inhibition of coke formation in the use of the catalyst in biomass pyrolysis systems
 and processes.
 [0047]       Catalyst compositions of the disclosure are readily synthesized, as hereinafter
 discussed in greater detail. Such catalyst compositions may be utilized in catalytic
 processes such as catalytic fast pyrolysis, as well as other biomass pyrolysis processes. In
 some previously developed biomass pyrolysis processes, wherein reducing zones are
 employed, use of the catalyst compositions of the present disclosure may enable reducing
 zones to be eliminated without loss of yields or carbon conversion efficiency in the liquid
 product.
 [0048]       The present disclosure contemplates catalysts that are fluidizable, e.g., in the
 form of Group A Geldart particles (see Geldart, D. (1973), "Types of gas fluidization".
 Powder technology 7 (5): 285-292).
 [0049]       The catalyst useful for catalytic pyrolysis of biomass in accordance with the
 present disclosure comprises:
 (i) matrix material comprising a support and/or binder, and
 (ii) at least one metal oxide on the matrix material, in which the metal oxide comprises
 metal selected from the group consisting of tungsten, chromium, cobalt, molybdenum,
 nickel, and combinations thereof.
 [0050]       The catalyst in specific embodiments can have Lewis acid and Bronsted acid
 sites present on the catalyst at a Lewis to Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in
 a range of from 0.1 to 50.
 [0051]       In specific embodiments of the catalyst, the Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites
 may be present on the catalyst at a Lewis: Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-)
 in a range of from 0.5 to 20. In other embodiments, the Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites
 may be present on the catalyst at a Lewis: Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-)
 in a range of from 0.75 to 5.
 [0052]       In various embodiments of the catalyst, the metal oxide has a loading on the
 matrix material of from 10 to 20% by weight, based on total weight of the metal oxide and
                                              -9-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 matrix material. In some specific implementations, the metal oxide has a loading on the
 matrix material of from 12 to 18% by weight, based on total weight of the metal oxide and
 matrix material. In other specific implementations, the metal oxide has a loading on the
 matrix material of from 15 to 17% by weight, based on total weight of the metal oxide and
 matrix material.
 [0053]      The catalyst is advantageously of particulate form, having a size, shape, and
 composition that accommodates the biomass pyrolysis process that is to be catalytically
 carried out. In various embodiments, the particulate catalyst may have an average particle
 size in a range of from 20 to 150 pm. In other embodiments, the particulate catalyst may
 have an average particle size in a range of from 25 to 125 pm. In still other embodiments,
 the particulate catalyst may have an average particle size in a range of from 30 to 80 prm.
 [0054]      The catalyst in some embodiments may have an acid site loading, as measured
 by ammonia adsorption, in a range of from 3 to 10 mL of NH 3 per gram of catalyst. In
 other embodiments, the catalyst may have an acid site loading, as measured by ammonia
 adsorption, in a range of from 3 to 8 mL of NH 3 per gram of catalyst.
 [0055]      Catalyst compositions of the disclosure may have any suitable characteristics
 of bulk density, surface area, porosity, and attrition resistance. For example, catalysts of
 the disclosure in specific embodiments may independently have any one or more of the
 characteristics of: a tap bulk density in a range of from 0.75 to 2.2 gm per cm 3 of catalyst;
 a BET surface area in a range of from 20 to 150 m 2/gram; porosity providing a pore
 volume in a range of from 0.2 to 1.0 cm3 of pore volume per gram of catalyst; and an
 Attrition Index in a range of from 2 to 25.
 [0056]      In various specific embodiments, the metal oxide in the catalyst comprises
 tungsten oxide.
 [0057]      The matrix material in the catalyst of the disclosure includes a support and/or
 binder.    The matrix material may include a support, which may be of any suitable
 composition, and in specific embodiments may comprise material selected from the group
 consisting of titania, alumina, silica, ceria, zirconia, zeolites, and compatible mixtures,
 alloys, and composites of two or more of the foregoing.           In some embodiments, the
 catalyst may comprise a non-zeolitic support. In other embodiments, the catalyst may
 comprise a zirconia support, e.g., of tetragonal phase zirconia; the metal oxide in such
 embodiments may comprise tungsten oxide.
                                              -10-

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 [0058]      The matrix material in the catalyst of the present disclosure may additionally or
 alternatively comprise a binder. The binder may comprise material selected from the
 group consisting of macroreticulate polymers, alumina, kieselguhr, kaolin, bentonite,
 clays, and compatible combinations of two or more of the foregoing.
 [0059]      In various embodiments, the catalyst may further comprise a catalytic
 promoter, e.g., a catalytic promoter that imparts desirable additional functionality such as
 increasing hydrogen production and/or inhibiting coke formation. The catalytic promoter
 may be of any suitable type, and may for example comprise a metal selected from the
 group consisting of platinum, palladium, ruthenium, cobalt, nickel, molybdenum, hafnium,
 copper, iron, tin, manganese, magnesium, chromium, lanthanum, and compatible
 combinations of two or more of the foregoing. The promotors may be present in the
 catalyst at any suitable concentrations, and in various embodiments are present in the
 catalyst at concentrations of from 1 to 15% by weight, based on the total weight of the
 catalyst.
 [0060]      Catalysts of the present disclosure, having the properties described herein for
 such catalysts, will be effective for the catalytic pyrolysis of biomass, irrespective of the
 specific catalyst preparation method that is employed.        A wide variety of preparative
 techniques and starting materials may be employed, as will be appreciated by those
 ordinarily skilled in the art, based on the disclosure herein.       Illustrative examples of
 preparation methods that may be usefully employed in the broad practice of the present
 disclosure include, without limitation, co-precipitation, spray-drying, incipient wetness,
 and combinations of two or more thereof.
 [0061]      In one illustrative embodiment, the catalyst useful for catalyzing pyrolysis of
 biomass comprises a zirconia support and tungsten oxide on the zirconia support at a
 tungsten oxide loading of from 10 to 20% by weight, based on total weight of zirconia and
 tungsten oxide, such catalyst being of particulate form with an average particle size in a
 range of from 20 to 150 pm, with an acid site loading, as measured by ammonia
 adsorption, in a range of from 3 to 10 mL of NH 3 per gram of catalyst, and wherein Lewis
 acid and Bronsted acid sites are present on the catalyst at a Lewis to Bronsted infrared
 band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in a range of from 0.1 to 50.
 [0062]      The present disclosure additionally contemplates a process for catalytic
 pyrolysis of biomass, comprising:
                                             - 11 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 reacting a biomass starting material under pyrolysis conditions in the presence of a catalyst
 to yield a pyrolysis reaction product; and
 regenerating the catalyst used in the pyrolysis reaction, to remove coke deposited on the
 catalyst and yield regenerated catalyst for use in the pyrolysis reaction,
 in which the catalyst used in such process comprises catalyst of the present disclosure.
 [0063]       The pyrolysis reaction can be carried out with any suitable ratio of catalyst:
 biomass starting material.     For example, the pyrolysis reaction can be carried out at a
 weight ratio of catalyst to biomass starting material that is in a range of from 1:1 to 100:1.
 [0064]       In the catalytic pyrolysis process, the pyrolysis reaction can be carried out in a
 reactor of any suitable type, including transport reactors, circulating fluidized-bed reactors,
 fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) reactors of types that are utilized in refinery operations
 for the cracking of petroleum hydrocarbons, etc., at any suitable processing rates and
 process conditions that are effective to produce acceptable pyrolysis reaction products. As
 an illustrative example, the pyrolysis reaction can be carried out in a transport or fluidized
 reactor to which the biomass starting material is introduced at a rate providing a residence
 time in a range of from 0.25 to 5 seconds.
 [0065]       The pyrolysis process, as indicated, can be carried out at any appropriate
 pyrolysis    conditions.     In some    embodiments,     the pyrolysis   conditions   comprise
 temperature in a range of from 200'C to 700'C. In other embodiments, the pyrolysis
 conditions comprise temperature in a range of from 200'C to 550'C.                  In various
 embodiments, the pyrolysis conditions comprise pressure in a range of from 1 to 25 bar.
 In still other specific embodiments, the pyrolysis conditions comprise ambient pressure.
 [0066]       The pyrolysis process may be carried out in any suitable mode of operation that
 is effective to achieve the catalytic pyrolysis of the biomass material, e.g., in any of batch,
 semi-batch, or continuous modes of operation.
 [0067]       In various implementations of the pyrolysis process, the pyrolysis reaction and
 regeneration of the catalyst are carried out continuously with one another.
 [0068]       Regeneration of the catalyst after it has become coked in the pyrolysis reaction
 can be carried out at any appropriate regeneration conditions that effect at least partial
 removal of coke from the catalyst and renew the catalyst for use in the pyrolysis reaction.
 In some embodiments, regeneration of the catalyst is carried out at temperature in a range
 of from 400'C to 10000 C. In other embodiments, regeneration of the catalyst is carried out
 at temperature in a range of from 400'C to 850'C.                In still other embodiments,
                                              -12-

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 regeneration of the catalyst is carried out at temperature in a range of from 500'C to
 700 0 C.
 [0069]      Any appropriate gaseous environment can be utilized for the regeneration of
 the catalyst. For example, regeneration of the catalyst can be carried out in the presence of
 oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas.         Oxygen-containing gases such as air and/or air
 diluted in carbon dioxide can be used for such purpose.             In various embodiments,
 regeneration of the catalyst is carried out in the presence of air and/or steam, e.g., dilute air
 and/or dilute steam, in which the diluent may comprise any suitable diluent gas species,
 e.g., argon, helium, nitrogen, or carbon dioxide.
 [0070]      The pyrolysis process in various embodiments further comprises recovering a
 bio-oil from the pyrolysis product.
 [0071]      In a particular embodiment, the recovery of bio-oil comprises:
 separating the pyrolysis product to recover (i) a vapor and gas fraction and (ii) a solids
 fraction comprising pyrolysis product solids, including biomass char, unreacted biomass,
 and biomass ash, and the catalyst;
 cooling the vapor and gas fraction to recover a bio-crude liquid; and
 removing water from the bio-crude liquid to produce the bio-oil.
 [0072]      Such recovery may be carried out with the catalyst from the solids fraction
 being regenerated and thereafter recycled to the pyrolysis reaction. The recovery may be
 carried out so that the bio-oil produced in the recovery has a desired oxygen content, e.g.,
 an oxygen content in a range of from 1% to 25% of oxygen by weight, based on weight of
 the bio-oil. In various embodiments, the catalytic pyrolysis process may be carried out to
 achieve a carbon conversion efficiency in a range of from 20% to 65% by weight, based
 on weight of the biomass starting material.
 [0073]      The vapor and gas fraction that is produced in the pyrolysis reaction and
 thereafter separated from the pyrolysis product may be recycled to the pyrolysis reaction.
 Alternatively, such vapor and gas fraction may be discharged from the process system for
 further processing or other disposition.
 [0074]      The present disclosure also contemplates a system for catalytic pyrolysis of
 biomass, comprising a pyrolysis reactor adapted to react biomass starting material under
 pyrolysis conditions in the presence of catalyst to yield pyrolysis product, and a
 regenerator adapted to receive coked catalyst from the pyrolysis reactor and to regenerate
                                              - 13 -

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 same for recirculation to the pyrolysis reactor, wherein the pyrolysis reactor is provided
 with catalyst according to the present disclosure.
 [0075]       In one specific embodiment of such system, the catalyst utilized in the
 pyrolysis system comprises a tungstated zirconia material that is characterized by: a
 tungsten loading of 15-17 weight percent, based on total weight of tungsten and zirconia;
 an acid site loading of greater than 3 mL per gram of ammonia adsorption; and a BET
 surface area greater than 50 m2 per gram.            The tungstated zirconia material in such
 embodiment is advantageously in a particulate form, having a particle size in a range of
 from 50 to 100 pm, and an Attrition Index of less than 20.
 [0076]       As used herein, the term "Attrition Index" refers to an attrition parameter that
 is determined by exposing particulate material in a Davison jet cup to turbulence and then
 relating the loss of "fines" to attrition, in which the fines generated from a material in the
 test are compared to the performance of reference material, e.g., a FCC (fluidized catalytic
 cracking) catalyst, under the same testing conditions.
 [0077]       The testing procedure used to determine Attrition Index in accordance with the
 present disclosure is similar to the technique that is described in Coco et al., Powder
 Technology 200, 2010, p. 224 and references identified therein.          In such procedure, 5
 grams of the powdered catalyst are tested using nitrogen as the high velocity gas that is
 added tangentially to the jet cup. The nitrogen gas is supplied at a flow rate of 21 standard
 liters of dry nitrogen per minute (SLPM), with such gas stream being adjusted to 70%
 relative humidity by water addition. The powdered catalyst is exposed to the humidified
 nitrogen gas jets for one hour. Prior to testing, the powdered catalyst is analyzed using a
 HELOS Particle Analyzer to determine the pre-test fraction of fines ("fines" being defined
 for such purpose as particles having a size of less than 20 pm). After testing, the material
 from the jet cup is again analyzed to determine the mass of particles having a size of less
 than 20 p m. The increase in the fractional material in the jet cup having a size of less than
 20 pm in addition to the mass of material collected in the system filter is considered to be
 the generated fines.    The Attrition Index is a unitless value that is equal to the weight
 percent of generated fines, based on the initial weight of powdered catalyst introduced to
 the jet cup.
 [0078]       Using this procedure for determining Attrition Index, standard FCC catalysts
 variously exhibit Attrition Indices on the order of 8-15.
                                               - 14 -

WO 2014/089131                                                             PCT/US2013/072948
 [0079]       Total acid site loadings of catalysts of the present disclosure are readily
 determined based on ammonia temperature-programmed desorption (NH 3-TPD). The
 ammonia-TPD measurements described herein were performed on an AutoChem 2920
 instrument (Micromeritics). A thermal conductivity detector was used for continuous
 monitoring of the desorbed ammonia. Prior to TPD measurements, samples were
 pretreated at 200'C for 1 hour in a flow of ultrapure helium (50 ml min-'). After such
 pretreatment, the sample was cooled to 80'C under ultrapure helium atmosphere. The
 sample then was saturated with a gas flow of 10% ultrapure anhydrous ammonia gas
 (balance He, total flow rate of 75 ml min-) at 80'C for 2 hours and subsequently flushed
 with pure helium (flow rate of 60 ml min-) for 1 hour to remove any physisorbed
 ammonia. The heating rate for the TPD measurements, from 80'C to 800'C, was 100 C
 min-. In ammonia-TPD analysis, two significant observed parameters are peak desorption
 temperature (Tmax) and desorbed ammonia volume. The peak desorption temperature is an
 indirect measure of the strength of acid sites and the desorbed ammonia volume is
 correlated to the density of acid sites.
 [0080]       Ammonia-TPD has certain limitations in characterizing acidic materials. The
 nature of the acid site (Bronsted or Lewis) cannot be determined by this technique. A
 pyridine FT-IR analysis is therefore carried out to understand the nature of catalyst acid
 sites. Integrated area of the pyridine FT-IR spectrum provides an estimate of the density of
 each type of acid site (Bronsted or Lewis).
 [0081]       Pyridine FT-IR determinations of catalysts of the present disclosure are carried
 out using Nicolet Magna 560 FT-IR instrument equipped with MCT-B detector and KBr
 beam splitter. Spectra are scanned in a 500-4000 cm-1 range in diffuse reflectance Infrared
 Fourier Transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) mode. Pyridine adsorption measurements
 described herein were carried out in a DRIFTS cell located inside an IR bench. This cell
 can be heated and cooled in a controlled manner.
 [0082]       FT-IR experiments described herein were carried out according to the
 procedure reported by Stevens et al., Applied Catalysis A: General 252, 2003, 57. In such
 procedure, 25 mg of catalyst were placed into the DRIFTS cell. The catalyst was
 pretreated in situ by heating the cell to 500'C at a ramp rate of 100 C/min in 30ml/min N2
 flow and then held for 2 hours. After pretreatment, the reactor was cooled to room
 temperature in a step-wise manner. FTIR spectra of the clean catalyst surface were
 recorded at 150'C and used as a baseline.
                                             - 15 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 [0083]      Pyridine adsorption was carried out at 150'C to avoid condensation on the
 sample (pyridine's boiling point is 116'C). Pyridine was introduced into the DRIFTS cell
 by flowing 20 ml/min N2 through a pyridine saturator for 1 hour. Physisorbed pyridine
 was removed from the surface by flowing 30 ml of N2 through the cell at 150'C for 30
 minutes and an FTIR spectrum was recorded.
 [0084]      Following the pyridine adsorption and characterization, the spectra from the
 corresponding untreated sample recorded (the baseline) were subtracted from the
 measured spectra of the sample after pyridine adsorption. All spectra are reported in
 absorbance mode and resulting spectra were used to observe net changes to the catalyst
 sample from pyridine adsorption and desorption.
 [0085]      Peaks in the range of 1700-1400 cm-1 in the pyridine FT-IR spectra provide
 valuable information on the nature of the catalyst acid sites. Peaks at 1440 cm-1 and 1598
 cm- 1 are associated with Lewis acidity. Peaks at 1639 cm-1 and 1541 cm-1 are due to ring
 vibrations of pyridine bound to Bronsted acid sites.
 [0086]      Lewis to Bronsted acid site ratio was determined by comparing corresponding
 peak heights. Spectral peaks at 1444 cm-1 denoted Lewis acid sites and spectral peaks at
 1540 cm-1 were attributed to Bronsted acid sites. Peak heights were determined using
 Omnic FT-IR software version 7. 1a.
 [0087]      Surface area measurements of catalysts of the present disclosure are specified
 using BET nitrogen adsorption determinations.
 [0088]      The tungsten oxide loading of the catalyst composition and dispersion of
 tungsten oxide therein are important variables that impact the activity of the catalyst when
 tungsten oxide is used as the metal oxide and zirconia is used as a support. Bulk tungsten
 oxide loadings of 15-17 weight percent on zirconia supports have been found to be highly
 advantageous. Tungsten oxide loadings significantly below 15 wt.% reduce the number of
 acid sites on the catalyst to undesirably low levels, and tungsten oxide loadings
 substantially higher than 17 wt.% are susceptible to forming regions of bulk tungsten
 oxide, e.g., W0 3, in the catalyst that have been found to be inactive for deoxygenation in
 catalytic pyrolysis processes.      A tungsten oxide loading of 15-17 weight percent is
 consistent with monolayer coverage of tungsten oxide on the zirconia support, and such
 monolayer coverage affords the highest number of acid sites in the catalyst composition.
 [0089]      Since bulk tungsten oxide in the form of W0 3 , has been found to be inactive in
 catalytic fast pyrolysis, it is important to characterize the dispersion of the tungsten oxide
                                               - 16 -

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 in the aforementioned tungstated zirconia catalyst, in addition to the bulk loading of
 tungsten therein. It is well-established that the tetragonal phase of zirconia is more active
 than other zirconia phases in catalysis.       W0 3 /ZrO 2 catalysts of the present disclosure
 preferably have tetragonal zirconia phase, to facilitate active site formation and enable
 better dispersion of W0 3 to be achieved. The presence of the tetragonal phase indicative
 of formation of active solid acid catalyst is readily determined by x-ray diffraction (XRD),
 as evidenced by a characteristic intense peak at 20 300, and bulk W0 3 species can be
 characterized by diffraction peaks at 20 values of 23.120, 23.590, and 24.38'. Such XRD
 validation of the catalyst composition can be carried out with a suitable diffractometer,
 such as for example a Shimazdu Lab X6000 x-ray diffractometer operating in the 20 range
 of 50 to 70'.
 [0090]       In the catalytic pyrolysis process, the metal oxide catalyst of the present
 disclosure enables the production of stable liquid pyrolysis reaction products that are
 significantly lower in oxygen content than the products of conventional biomass pyrolysis
 processes, and much more suitable for refining to form liquid hydrocarbon biofuels.
 [0091]       The biomass starting material utilized in such catalytic pyrolysis process can be
 of any suitable type. Such biomass may for example comprise nonhazardous lignin waste
 material that is segregated from other waste materials, solid nonhazardous cellulosic
 material of varying types, lignocellulosic material, and the like. Specific examples include,
 without limitation: forestry-derived      materials, e.g.,    mill residues, pre-commercial
 thinnings,    slash, brush, and other non-merchantable material; manufacturing and
 construction wood waste materials (other than pressure-treated, chemically-treated, or
 painted wood wastes), such as waste pallets, crates, dunnage, scrap lumber, and the like;
 landscaping and right-of-way tree trimmings; paper that is commonly recycled;
 agricultural wastes, such as those deriving from orchard tree crops, vineyards, and other
 food crops, and their respective byproducts and residues; livestock waste nutrients; plants
 specifically grown for use in the production of liquid fuels or otherwise for production of
 electricity; and combinations of the foregoing materials.
 [0092]       The biomass starting material in various embodiments can be constituted at
 least in part by cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material. Cellulose is a polysaccharide
 formed of 1,4-linked glucose units and is a primary structural component found in plants.
 Cellulose is the most abundant organic chemical on earth, with an estimated annual
 biosphere production of approximately 90 x 109 metric tons of such material. Lignin is a
                                              - 17 -

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 three-dimensional amorphous natural polymer containing phenylpropane units that are tri
 or tetra-substituted with hydroxyl groups and methoxyl groups. Lignin makes up about
 one quarter to about one third of the dry mass of wood and generally lacks a defined
 primary structure.    Lignocellulose is primarily a combination of cellulose, lignin, and
 hemicellulose.
 [0093]       Biomass starting materials useful in the catalytic pyrolysis process of the
 present disclosure can comprise a wide variety of cellulosics and lignocellulosics.        For
 example, the biomass can be derived from both herbaceous and woody sources.
 Illustrative, non-limiting examples of herbaceous biomass sources that may be used in the
 catalytic pyrolysis process of the present disclosure include wood (hardwood and/or
 softwood), tobacco, corn, corn residues, corncobs, corn husks, sugarcane bagasse, castor
 oil plant, rapeseed plant, soybean plant, serial straw, grain processing byproducts, bamboo,
 bamboo pulp, bamboo sawdust, and energy crops such as switchgrass, miscanthus, and
 reed canary grass. "Waste" biomass materials that may be used in specific embodiments
 of the catalytic pyrolysis process include, without limitation, corn stover, rice straw, paper
 sludge, and waste papers and pulps (e.g., recycled paper, recycled pulp, bleached paper,
 bleached pulp, semi-bleached paper, semi-bleached pulp, unbleached paper, and
 unbleached pulp).
 [0094]       In various specific implementations, the catalytic pyrolysis process of the
 present disclosure is operated using lignocellulosic biomass materials, e.g., from forest and
 agricultural energy crops such as switchgrass, miscanthus, energy canes, poplar, willow,
 and the like, to form low oxygen content, stable liquid intermediates that can be
 subsequently refined to produce liquid hydrocarbon fuels.
 [0095]       The biomass that is employed as the feedstock for the catalytic pyrolysis
 process of the disclosure can be furnished in any suitable form, and may be prepared for
 the pyrolysis process by any appropriate preparation methods.
 [0096]       Biomass preparation for pyrolysis can for example comprise size reduction and
 drying of the biomass. The biomass may be particularized, which may be a natural state
 of the biomass or may result from processing steps in which a raw biomass material is
 converted to a particularized form. Preferably, the size of the biomass introduced into the
 reactor is such that heat transfer rates are sufficiently high to maximize bio-oil production.
 The cost of any required size reduction and the bio-oil yield resulting from such size
 reduction may be closely related and may require design and/or empirical efforts to
                                               -18 -

WO 2014/089131                                                             PCT/US2013/072948
 determine the most beneficial size of the biomass to be introduced to the pyrolysis
 reaction. In some embodiments, biomass particles can have an average size of about 10
 mm or less, about 8 mm or less, about 5 mm or less, about 2 mm or less, about 1.5 mm or
 less, or about 1 mm or less, e.g., with a lower limit of 0.1 mm in any of such ranges. In
 other specific embodiments, average particle size can be from 0.1 mm to 10 mm, from 0.1
 mm to 8mm, from 0.1 mm to 5 mm, from 0.1 mm to 2 mm, or from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm.
 [0097]      Biomass employed as feedstock for the catalytic pyrolysis process of the
 disclosure may in some instances be pyrolyzed in an as-received or raw form, e.g., after
 appropriate sizing has been completed, when particularization is necessary.         In other
 instances, adjustment of the moisture content of the raw biomass may be desired, in order
 to achieve a desired process heat balance, and/or other pre-pyrolysis preparative steps may
 be necessary or desirable. Thus, although "green" biomass may in some instances be used
 in the pyrolysis process in an as-received or raw form, drying of such feedstock material
 may be advantageous in achieving high energy efficiency of the pyrolysis process and
 production of pyrolysis reaction products of the desired character.
 [0098]      As an example, green biomass as harvested may have a moisture content on the
 order of 50% by weight of the biomass material.         Moisture content of the biomass is
 desirably as low as possible in order to balance the heat requirements in the process. The
 raw biomass material may correspondingly require substantial drying in order to balance
 heat requirements of the pyrolysis process. In some instances, the attainment of extremely
 low moisture content may be cost-prohibitive, and relaxation of moisture criteria may be
 necessary to achieve a cost-effective pyrolysis process with acceptable energy efficiency
 and product yield characteristics.
 [0099]      Moisture content of the biomass can be adjusted externally of the process or
 internally, by integrating a heat source to maintain the biomass introduced to the pyrolysis
 process at an appropriate moisture content level. In various embodiments, a desired
 moisture level of the biomass may be maintained by corresponding modulation of a raw
 biomass drying operation. The moisture level of the feedstock biomass may for example
 be in a range of from 0.1 to 15% by weight, or a range of from 0.5 to 10% by weight, or a
 range of from 0.75 to 7% by weight, or a range of from 1 to 5% by weight, based on
 weight of the dried biomass, in specific embodiments.
                                             - 19 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 [00100]     It will be appreciated from the foregoing that the type, source and form of the
 biomass starting material may be widely varied in the broad practice of the present
 disclosure.
 [00101]     Biomass pyrolysis can form a cocktail of compounds in various phases, and the
 pyrolysis product can contain in the range of 300 or more compounds. In prior methods of
 biomass pyrolysis, the starting biomass material typically is heated in the absence of added
 oxygen to produce a mixture of solid, liquid, and gaseous products whose specific
 composition depends on pyrolysis temperature and residence time of the biomass in the
 pyrolysis reactor. When biomass is heated at low temperature and for long times to effect
 slow pyrolysis, charcoal is the dominant product. Gases may constitute up to 80% by
 weight of the pyrolysis product when biomass is heated at temperature above 700'C. In
 known methods of fast pyrolysis or flash pyrolysis, biomass is rapidly heated to
 temperatures ranging from 400'C to 650'C with low residence times, and such methods
 commonly achieve products that are up to 75% by weight organic liquids, on a dry feed
 basis.
 [00102]     Although known methods of flash pyrolysis can produce bio-oils from various
 feedstocks, these oils typically are acidic, chemically and thermally unstable, and require
 upgrading. The present disclosure provides an improved catalyst and biomass catalytic
 pyrolysis process that are effective to form reaction products having a lower oxygen
 content as compared to reaction products of traditional fast pyrolysis processes.        The
 reaction products from known fast pyrolysis processes typically comprise from 35% to
 50% by weight oxygen, in the form of oxygenated material such as esters, alcohols,
 aldehydes, ketones, sugars, and other oxy-compounds.          The high oxygen content of
 reaction products from known fast pyrolysis methods can contribute to low stability of
 reaction products and can complicate conversion of the reaction products into useful fuels,
 which typically are formed of mixtures of non-oxygenated, aliphatic and aromatic
 compounds.
 [00103]     Accordingly, the catalytic pyrolysis process of the present disclosure,
 producing reduced oxygen content reaction products, allows for easier conversion of the
 reaction products to biofuels and achieves a major advance in the art.
 [00104]     In various embodiments, the catalytic pyrolysis process of the present
 disclosure produces a bio-oil having an oxygen content in a range of from 0.1 to 30 wt.%,
 based on weight of the bio-oil. Specific embodiments of the catalytic pyrolysis process
                                             - 20 -

WO 2014/089131                                                             PCT/US2013/072948
 may produce product bio-oil having an oxygen content in a range of from 0.1 to 25 wt.%,
 from 0.1 to 20 wt.%, from 0.1 to 15 wt.%, from 0.1 to 10 wt.%, or from 0.1 to 5 wt.%,
 based on weight of the bio-oil. In other embodiments, the oxygen content of the bio-oil
 can be from I to 5 wt.%, from I to 20 wt.%, from I to 15 wt.%, from I to 10% wt.%, from
 2 to 10 wt.%, or from 5 to 10 wt.%, based on weight of the bio-oil.
 [00105]     The pyrolysis process of the present disclosure is particularly beneficial in
 producing pyrolysis products that require less additional processing of the type that is used
 in conventional biomass pyrolysis.     For example, in removing oxygen from the reaction
 products in known pyrolysis methods, catalytic or non-catalytic methods typically are
 employed that result in production of carbon dioxide or carbon monoxide, which in turn
 reduces the overall carbon content of the bio-oil that can be converted to a biofuel. The
 biomass pyrolysis process of the present disclosure reduces the need for such additional
 oxygen removal treatment.
 [00106]     Carbon conversion efficiency of a biomass pyrolysis process can be described
 as the amount of carbon in the bio-oil product in comparison to the amount of carbon in
 the biomass starting material, viz.,
 Carbon Conversion Efficiency = (Mass of carbon in bio-oil/Mass of carbon in input
 biomass) * 100%
 This calculation does not include carbon from additional sources that may be used as feed
 for the generation of power, heat, or hydrogen, in potential process configurations of the
 present disclosure.
 [00107]     The catalytic pyrolysis process of the present disclosure achieves oxygen
 removal during the pyrolysis reaction, and reaction products have overall reduced oxygen
 content.   Such catalytic pyrolysis process may exhibit carbon conversion efficiency below
 that achievable by a fast pyrolysis process, but the resulting bio-oil will have improved
 properties, including, without limitation, lower oxygen content, lower acidity, improved
 thermal stability, and lower water content.      Such improved properties positively affect
 downstream processing, and can significantly increase yields of final products from
 upgrading of the bio-oil.
 [00108]     In various embodiments, the catalytic pyrolysis reaction process of the present
 disclosure exhibits a carbon conversion efficiency of the pyrolysis reaction that is greater
 than 20%, greater than 30%, greater than 40%, greater than 50%, greater than 60%, or
                                             - 21 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                 PCT/US2013/072948
 greater than 70%. For example, the catalytic pyrolysis reaction process may have a carbon
 conversion efficiency that is in a range of from 20 to 80%, or more.                  In specific
 embodiments, the carbon conversion efficiency of the catalytic pyrolysis process may be
 in a range of from 30 to 80%, from 35 to 75%, from 40 to 70%, from 50 to 90%, or in
 other suitable range of values.
 [00109]      The catalytic pyrolysis process of the present disclosure can be carried out in
 various embodiments by reacting the biomass starting material under pyrolysis conditions
 in the presence of a catalyst of the present disclosure, to form a stream comprising (i) a
 pyrolysis product fraction and (ii) a catalyst/biomass solids/reaction product solids
 fraction. The pyrolysis product fraction (or a further fraction thereof) can have an oxygen
 content that is below a specified amount, as described herein.            This is a particularly
 beneficial aspect of the pyrolysis reaction, since the low oxygen content of the product
 increases the usefulness of the pyrolysis reaction product (after water removal) as bio-oil,
 i.e., a greater proportion of the reaction product is in a form that is useful as a bio-oil.
 [00110]      Referring now to the drawings, FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a catalytic biomass
 pyrolysis process system according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.               As
 illustrated, a biomass preparation unit can be provided for preparing raw biomass for the
 pyrolysis process, including size reduction and drying of the raw biomass to
 predetermined suitable specifications.      The prepared biomass is delivered to a catalytic
 biomass pyrolysis unit in which the pyrolysis reaction is conducted.
 [00111]      Pyrolysis products of the reaction are delivered to a solid/vapor separation unit.
 Vapor, as well as liquid fractions that may be present, pass from the separation unit to a
 vapor condensation/liquid collection unit, and solids, including catalyst and solid biomass
 fractions, pass from the separation unit to a catalyst regeneration unit. In the catalyst
 regeneration unit, biomass solids, e.g., ash, can be withdrawn, and regenerated catalyst
 then is reintroduced       into the catalytic      biomass pyrolysis unit.        In the vapor
 condensation/liquid collection unit, liquid bio-crude is formed and passes to a liquid
 separator for separation of the bio-oil product from water and other components.
 Optionally, a tail gas can be withdrawn from the vapor condensation/liquid collection unit.
 Such tail gas can be recycled within the process system to the catalytic biomass pyrolysis
 unit, or discharged for further processing or other disposition.
 [00112]      Any suitable type of reactor useful for carrying out fast pyrolysis reactions can
 be employed in the broad practice of the present disclosure.             Ideally, the reactor is
                                               -22-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 specially adapted to the use of catalyst compositions as variously described herein.
 Illustrative examples of reactors that may be employed in the broad practice of the present
 disclosure include, without limitation, bubbling fluidized bed reactors,             circulating
 fluidized bed/transport reactors, fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) reactors of types that
 are utilized in refinery operations for the cracking of petroleum hydrocarbons, rotating
 cone pyrolyzers, ablative pyrolyzers, vacuum pyrolysis reactors, and auger reactors.
 [00113]      FIG. 2 is a schematic representation of a transport reactor system in which the
 catalyst of the present disclosure can be employed to carry out catalytic biomass pyrolysis.
 [00114]      In the transport reactor system, prepared biomass is delivered to the fast
 pyrolysis reactor with a carrier gas. The biomass enters a mixing zone from which it is
 transported through a riser section, i.e., a riser reactor. The carrier gas may be of any
 suitable type, and may for example comprise nitrogen gas or other inert gas. The carrier
 gas is provided at sufficient rate relative to the reactor volume so that the biomass has a
 residence time in the riser section of appropriate duration. In specific embodiments, the
 residence time of the biomass in the riser section may be about 5 seconds or less, about 4
 seconds or less, about 3 seconds or less, about 2 seconds or less, or about one second or
 less, e.g., with a lower limit of 0.1 second in any of such residence time ranges.
 [00115]      The biomass entering the riser reactor comes in contact with the catalyst under
 appropriate pyrolysis conditions, e.g., temperature, residence time, and catalyst to biomass
 ratio. In specific embodiments, the pyrolysis temperature can be in a range of from 200'C
 to 900'C, from 200'C to 700'C, from 200'C to 600'C, from 200'C to 550'C, from 250'C
 to 500'C, or from 300'C to 500'C. In other embodiments, lower temperature ranges may
 be beneficial to minimize undesirable thermal effects such as cracking.           In still other
 embodiments, reacting of the biomass in the presence of catalyst can be carried out at a
 temperature of 600'C or less, 550'C or less, or 500'C or less, or temperature in other
 suitable ranges. Residence time in specific embodiments may be from 0.5 second to about
 5 seconds, from 0.5 second to 4 seconds, from 0.5 second to 3 seconds, or from 0.5 second
 to 2 seconds, or other suitable residence time ranges.
 [00116]      Pressure of the pyrolysis reaction can be at any suitable value or level. In some
 embodiments, pyrolysis is carried out at ambient pressure.            In other embodiments,
 pyrolysis is carried out at elevated pressure, such as from ambient pressure to 25 bar (2.5
 MPa), from ambient pressure to 20 bar (2 MPa), or from ambient pressure to 10 bar (1
                                               - 23 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 MPa). In still other embodiments, pyrolysis may be carried out at pressure from ambient
 up to 35 bar (3.5 MPa).
 [00117]     In general, the pyrolysis conditions are utilized for the specific catalyst
 composition employed in the catalytic pyrolysis process to achieve residence times and
 heat transfer rates appropriate to maximize liquid bio-oil yield while maintaining high
 catalyst activity by continuous regeneration.           Although batch-wise or intermittent
 regeneration of the catalyst is contemplated within the broad scope of the present
 disclosure, continuous regeneration is generally more desirable to maintain appropriate
 catalyst activity.
 [00118]     The catalytic compositions of the present disclosure exhibit sufficiently high
 activity to enable low temperature pyrolysis and concurrent low thermal cracking of
 reaction products of the pyrolysis.
 [00119]     The catalyst is regenerated in the regenerator. The regenerator can be of any
 suitable type, and can for example comprise a bubbling fluidized bed, fluidized by air
 and/or steam, e.g., diluted air and/or diluted steam, in which the diluent comprises Ar, He,
 N 2 , Xe, Ne, or C0 2 , or other fluidization medium. The fluidizing medium is injected into
 the regenerator to fluidize the catalyst bed.
 [00120]     In the fluidized catalyst bed, the catalyst is regenerated by oxidation of char
 and surface carbon (coke) on the catalyst.         The exothermic carbon oxidation can also
 impart heat to the catalyst solids, to facilitate the endothermic biomass pyrolysis reactions
 when the catalyst is circulated back to the mixing zone. The catalytic oxidation process
 may be carried out so that no additional fuel is required to drive the process, i.e., wherein
 all heat required for catalytic biomass pyrolysis can be obtained from char and coke
 oxidation, if desired.
 [00121]     In some embodiments, excess heat may be produced by the oxidation of char
 and coke, beyond the heat requirements of the pyrolysis reactor. Such excess heat may be
 extracted by heat transfer arrangements of varied types, and utilized for power generation,
 heat recovery, or other disposition or application.
 [00122]     In other embodiments, heat produced by oxidation of char and coke in the
 catalyst regeneration may be less than that required for the catalytic oxidation process, and
 supplemental heat input to the catalytic pyrolysis reactor may be necessary.
 [00123]     The catalyst regeneration operation therefore can be operated in various modes
 of thermal management for the overall process system.
                                               - 24 -

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 [00124]     Catalytic pyrolysis using the catalyst compositions of the present disclosure
 provides highly selective depolymerization and fragmentation of cellulose, hemicellulose,
 and lignin components of biomass at low temperature.                Such selectivity and low
 temperature facilitate high bio-oil yield of the pyrolysis reaction. Catalyst compositions of
 the present disclosure are effective to remove oxygen during biomass pyrolysis and inhibit
 char formation by effecting scission of specific bonds in cellulose, hemicellulose, and
 lignin, while promoting hydrocarbon condensation reactions.
 [00125]     The amount of catalyst material circulated through the catalytic biomass
 pyrolysis process is appropriately based on the biomass throughput of the system, with the
 amount of solid catalyst being such as to provide the desired heat of reaction for the
 endothermic pyrolysis reaction and to catalytically control vapor-phase chemistry.        The
 ratio of catalyst to biomass may be at any suitable value. In specific embodiments, such
 ratio may be in a range of from about 1:1 to about 100:1, based on weight.            In other
 embodiments, the ratio of catalyst to biomass throughput can be from 5:1 to about 75:1, or
 from about 10:1 to about 50:1, or in other suitable range of ratio values.
 [00126]     In the FIG. 2 pyrolysis system, the stream exiting the pyrolysis reactor,
 comprising circulating solids, vapors, and gases, is transferred to a cyclone separator that
 is used to separate the solids, e.g., spent catalyst and char, from the vapors and gases.
 After separation, the solids exiting the separator collect in the standpipe and flow into the
 regenerator reactor. Air and/or steam, or other regeneration medium, is introduced to the
 regenerator to oxidize biomass char and coke that has deposited on the catalyst surface.
 The principal products of the regenerator reactor are carbon dioxide and heat imparted to
 the regenerated catalyst.    The carbon dioxide can be collected and removed from the
 system for sequestration or other disposition.
 [00127]     The hot catalyst leaving the regenerator reactor is returned to the pyrolysis
 reactor.
 [00128]     The pyrolysis vapors and gases that were separated from the solids fraction in
 the cyclone separator are transferred to the condenser where vapors are condensed into a
 liquid that typically contains an aqueous phase and an organic phase.           In lieu of the
 cyclone separator, other separation apparatus may be employed to remove particles from
 the   vapor stream,    including,  without limitation,     filters, bag houses, electrostatic
 precipitators, and the like.
                                              - 25 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 [00129]      In the condenser, the condensed aqueous phase can be predominantly water,
 e.g., from about 40-95% water, with water-soluble organic materials such as acids, e.g.,
 acetic acid, phenols, and unconverted anhydrous sugars. The condensed organic phase is
 denser than the water-rich aqueous phase and typically has a much lower oxygen content.
 The two phases are physically separated and the hydrocarbon-rich bio-oil is collected at
 the outlet.
 [00130]      Tail gas such as carbon monoxide is discharged from the condenser as an
 overhead stream, and may be separately processed or otherwise utilized in the process
 system as a heating fuel source for the regenerator and/or pyrolysis reactor, if and to the
 extent desired.
 [00131]      It will be recognized that the process systems depicted in FIGS. 1 and 2 are of
 an illustrative character only, and that any other suitable pyrolysis system arrangements
 may be employed, within the scope of the present disclosure.
 [00132]      More generally, the catalytic biomass pyrolysis process of the present
 disclosure involves reacting a biomass starting material under pyrolysis conditions in the
 presence of a catalyst of the present disclosure, to form a bio-crude that can be readily
 processed to form a bio-oil. The bio-oil may have an oxygen content, and may be present
 in a vapor and/or gas phase, and may be condensed as a liquid phase after the pyrolysis
 reaction. The catalyst is advantageously separated from the reaction product, and such
 separation may further include separating any solid component of the reaction product.
 Thus, the method of forming a bio-oil may comprise separating from the reaction product
 any materials that are not liquid at ambient conditions. The method may also comprise
 regenerating the catalyst and recycling the catalyst back to the catalytic biomass pyrolysis
 reaction.    The method may also comprise separating from the reaction product any
 material that is a gas at ambient conditions.
 [00133]      The present disclosure contemplates the production of a bio-oil that may be
 variously integrated in petroleum refining systems for the production of products,
 including blending of the bio-oil with other streams being processed in the refinery, as
 well as stand-alone upgrading of the bio-oil in the refining system, as well as direct use as
 a refinery feedstock. In blending applications, the bio-oil product may be blended at any
 ratio with petroleum crude or other refinery feedstock materials, and processed for
 production of ultimate products, or intermediates therefor. Similarly, it is contemplated
 that the bio-oil product of the biomass catalytic pyrolysis process may be blended into
                                              - 26 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 refinery process streams at any one or more of multiple insertion points throughout the
 refinery so as to encompass, or alternatively to bypass, specific unit operations of the
 refinery. Further, it is contemplated that the bio-oil produced in the catalytic pyrolysis
 process may undergo upgrading in a stand-alone unit operation using standard refinery
 equipment to produce either a finished product or a product that is capable of being
 integrated in a current refinery operation and infrastructure.
 [00134]      The advantages and features of the disclosure are further illustrated with
 reference to the following examples, which are not to be construed as in any way limiting
 the scope of the disclosure but rather as being illustrative of embodiments of the disclosure
 in specific aspects thereof.
 [00135]      In the ensuing examples, the RTI-A9 tungstated zirconia (W0 3 /ZrO 2 ) catalyst
 is a particulate catalyst that is characterized by a tungsten loading of 15-17 weight percent,
 based on total weight of tungsten and zirconia, an acid site loading of greater than 3 mL
 per gram of ammonia adsorption, a BET surface area greater than 50 m 2 per gram, and a
 particle size in a range of from 50 to 100 pm.
 [00136]      For such examples, sample pellets were made using a Carver die-press. In a
 typical procedure, a 1 inch die was filled with catalyst powder and pressed at 30,000 to
 60,000 pounds pressure for one minute. The resulting formed pellet was removed from
 the die and ground to coarse powder using a mortar and pestle. The material yielded by
 such processing was sieved to collect a 75-90 pm particle sized powder.
 [00137]      Example I (Calcination Temperature)
 [00138]      Tungstated zirconia catalyst precursor samples were calcined at different
 temperatures (600'C = Sample RTI-A9-6; 700'C = Sample RTI-A9; and 800'C = Sample
 RTI-A9-7) to determine the effect of calcination temperature on structural properties and
 acidic nature of the catalyst. X-ray diffraction patterns of the samples calcined at the
 different temperatures are shown in FIG. 3.
 [00139]      As shown in FIG. 3, the intensity of tetragonal zirconia peaks decreased and
 peaks associated with the monoclinic phase increased with increasing temperature.
 Monoclinic zirconia can be characterized by distinct diffraction peaks at 20 values of 28.20
 and 31.5'. At higher calcination temperature of 800'C, peaks corresponding to bulk W0        3
 were also observed.         Crystallization of W0    3 accelerates at higher temperatures and
 formation of bulk W0      3  was attributable to phase change of both dispersed W0   3 species
 and the ZrO 2 support altering the acid strength distribution and acid site density, as
                                                -27 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 confirmed in subsequent ammonia TPD and bench scale pyrolysis results. Even at 800'C
 calcination, however, no solid solutions between zirconium and tungsten were observed.
 [00140]      XRD patterns of fresh (Sample RTI-A-9-3 (fresh)) and spent (Sample RTI-A9
 3 (spent)) tungstated zirconia catalyst are shown in FIG. 4. The catalyst material in this
 comparison was an extrudate form of the tungstated zirconia catalyst, which was crushed
 for the testing. The spent catalyst sample had been used in a biomass pyrolysis reactor and
 regenerated (by oxidation to remove coke) several times.         The fresh catalyst sample
 showed only tetragonal zirconia peaks with some contribution from the monoclinic phase.
 No distinct peaks for bulk W0 3 were observed in the fresh catalyst, but well resolved W0 3
 and monoclinic ZrO 2 peaks were observed in the XRD pattern of spent catalyst. Such
 tungstate/zirconia peaks could be attributed to W0 3 phase change, possibly involving
 conversion of surface monomeric W0 3 species into polymeric W0 3 species.
 [00141]      Additionally, a small part of more active metastable tetragonal ZrO 2 phase was
 converted into the less active, but stable, monoclinic phase. As a result, the spent catalyst
 had weaker acid strength and lower acid site density as compared to the fresh catalyst.
 During these transformations, the catalyst might have achieved its steady-state activity by
 losing some initial activity, a common occurrence for most heterogeneous catalysts. This
 observation is supported by bench scale pyrolysis experiments, in which the catalyst
 showed consistent deoxygenation activity even after 15 reaction-regeneration cycles. No
 further catalyst deactivation was observed with time, since there was no change in gas and
 liquid composition.
 [00142]      Example II (Acid Site Density and Distribution)
 [00143]      Tests were conducted to confirm that the active feature of the tungstated
 zirconia catalyst is the acid sites that are present in the material.          Temperature
 programmed desorption (TPD) testing was carried out by ammonia-TPD analysis to
 evaluate acidic centers of the catalyst material. In such analysis, two principal parameters
 are peak desorption temperature (Tmax) and desorbed ammonia volume.                The peak
 desorption temperature is an indirect measure of the strength of acid sites, and the
 desorbed ammonia volume is correlated to the density of acid sites in the material.
 [00144]      The ammonia-TPD measurements were performed on an AutoChem 2920
 instrument (Micromeritics).     A thermal conductivity detector was used for continuous
 monitoring of the desorbed ammonia and the areas under the peaks were integrated. Prior
 to TPD measurements, the sample (Sample RTI-A9, the same tungstated zirconia catalyst
                                             - 28 -

WO 2014/089131                                                            PCT/US2013/072948
 as tested in Example I) was pretreated at 200'C for 1 hour in a flow of ultrapure helium
 (50 mL/minute).      After pretreatment, the sample was saturated with 10% ultrapure
 anhydrous ammonia gas (balance He, 75 mL/minute total flowrate) at 80'C for 2 hours
 and subsequently flushed with helium (60 mL/minute) for 1 hour to remove the physi
 sorbed ammonia. The heating rate for the TPD measurements, from 80'C to 800'C, was
 100C/minute.     Acid site density is typically reported as standard condition volume of
 ammonia desorbed per gram of catalyst.        The tungstated zirconia catalyst desorbed 4
 mL/gram of ammonia.
 [00145]     Ammonia TPD profiles of the tungstated zirconia catalyst samples from
 Example I (Sample RTI-A9-6, Sample RTI-A9, and Sample RTI-A9-7) are shown in FIG.
 5. As shown, the desorption maximum is shifted to lower temperature with increasing
 calcination temperature, suggesting that the acid strength decreases as calcination
 temperature increases. Additionally, the acid site density and the number of stronger acid
 sites decreased with increasing calcination temperature.   The catalyst calcined at 600'C
 had higher acid site density and a greater number of stronger acid sites than the catalyst
 calcined at higher temperatures.
 [00146]     FIG. 6 is a graph of ammonia TPD profiles for fresh ("Fresh") Sample RTI
 A9-3 and spent ("Spent") Sample RTI-A9-3 tungstated zirconia catalyst.
 [00147]     Acid sites in the fresh RTI-A9-3 catalyst were found to be distributed over a
 broad temperature range (150-500'C) with a maximum around 300'C, indicating presence
 of both weak and stronger acid sites. As shown in FIG. 6, the temperature maximums
 shifted to lower temperature (around 180'C) and spent catalyst, signifying a decrease in
 total acid strength. Comparing the area under the desorption curves of the fresh and spent
 catalysts in the temperature range of 250-500'C indicates a significant decrease in the
 number of stronger acid sites in the spent catalyst.     In addition, the total amount of
 desorbed ammonia decreased for the spent catalyst almost 50%.         The total amount of
 desorbed ammonia for the fresh and spent catalysts was 6.6 mL/g and 3 mL/g,
 respectively.
 [00148]     The drop in the amount of desorbed ammonia indicated a lower acid site
 density on the spent catalyst. The decrease in acid strength and acid site density in the
 spent catalyst could be attributed to W0 3 phase change, consistent with XRD
 measurements from which bulk W0 3 peaks were observed in the XRD profile of the spent
 RTI-A9 catalyst (FIG. 4).       In bench-scale catalytic pyrolysis experiments, the fresh
                                            -29-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 catalyst produced more coke, as compared to the less acidic steady-state catalyst.
 Production of excess coke could be attributed to stronger acid strength of fresh catalyst.
 [00149]     For all versions of RTI-A9, the bulk of the desorption occurs between 150'C
 and 350'C. As a basis of comparison, ZSM-5 catalyst typically exhibits strong desorption
 in this temperature range as well as at temperatures above about 400'C.         The RTI-A9
 catalyst lacks the strongest acid sites that are present in the ZSM-5 catalyst.
 [00150]     Example III (Pyridine FT-IR Analysis)
 [00151]     Ammonia-TPD has certain limitations in characterizing acidic materials. The
 nature of the acid site (Bronsted or Lewis) cannot be determined by such technique. A
 pyridine FT-IR analysis therefore was carried out to investigate the nature of the catalyst
 acid sites. Integrated area in the pyridine FTIR IR spectrum can provide an estimate of the
 density of each type of acid site (Bronsted or Lewis).
 [00152]     Pyridine FT-IR analysis was carried out using a Nicolet Magna 560 FT-IR
 instrument equipped with an MCT-B detector and KBr beam splitter.               Spectra were
 scanned in a 500-4000 cm-1 range in diffuse reflectance Fourier transform infrared
 spectroscopy (DRIFTS) mode. Pyridine adsorption measurements were carried out in a
 DRIFTS cell located inside the IR bench. The cell was arranged to be heated and cooled
 in a controlled manner.      FT-IR experiments were carried out according the procedure
 reported in Stevens et al., Applied Catalysis A: General 252, 2003, 57.
 [00153]     25 mg of catalyst were placed into the DRIFTS cell.             The catalyst was
 pretreated in-situ by heating the cell to 500'C at a ramp rate of 10 0C/minute in 30
 mL/minute nitrogen flow and then held for 2 hours. After such pretreatment, the reactor
 was cooled to room temperature in a step-wise manner. FTIR spectra of the clean catalyst
 surface were recorded at 500, 400, 300, 200, and 150'C. The spectrum recorded at 150'C
 was used as a baseline.
 [00154]     Pyridine adsorption was carried out at 150'C to avoid condensation on the
 sample (pyridine boils at 116'C at 1 atm). Pyridine was introduced into the DRIFTS cell
 by flowing 20 mL/minute nitrogen through a pyridine saturator for one hour. Physisorbed
 pyridine was removed from the surface by flowing 30 mL of nitrogen through the cell at
 150'C for 30 minutes, and an FTIR spectrum was recorded.
 [00155]     Following the pyridine adsorption and characterization at 150'C, the reactor
 was heated stepwise to 200, 300, 400 and 500'C at 10 0C/minute ramp rate.           Catalytic
 biomass pyrolysis is typically performed at 500'C, so this temperature was chosen as the
                                               -30-

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 maximum temperature for acid strength studies. FTIR spectra were recorded at each of
 these temperatures, and the spectra from the corresponding untreated sample recorded at
 the same temperature were subtracted. All spectra were reported in absorbance mode and
 resulting spectra were used to observe that changes to the sample during pyridine
 adsorption and desorption.
 [00156]      Pyridine FT-IR spectra of fresh and spent RTI-A9-3 catalysts are shown in
 FIGS. 7 and 8, respectively. The peaks in the range 1700-1400 cm-1 in the pyridine FT-IR
 spectra provide information on the nature of the catalyst acid sites. Significant differences
 in the absorption bands can be observed in this region between the fresh and spent
 catalysts.   Peaks at 1440 cm-1 and 1598 cm-1 are associated with Lewis acidity, while
 peaks at 1639 cm-1 and 1541 cm-1 are due to ring vibrations of pyridine bound to Bronsted
 acid sites. The peak at 1488 cm-1 is not attributable to either Bronsted or Lewis sites.
 From the pyridine FT-IR experiments, it was confirmed that fresh RTI-A9-3 catalysts
 possess both Bronsted and Lewis acid sites. Additionally, while use of the catalyst results
 in reduction of total acid sites on the catalyst, the Lewis to Bronsted acid site band height
 remains close to 1 after multiple reaction/regeneration cycles.
 [00157]      The intensity of the Lewis acid peaks decrease with increasing desorption
 temperature and begin to diminish at or above about 300'C. The Bronsted acid peaks
 persist even at 500'C desorption. This suggests that the Bronsted acid sites have higher
 acid strength compared to the Lewis acid sites. The pyridine FT-IR results are consistent
 with the ammonia-TPD results confirming the decrease in acid strength for the spent
 catalysts. Low coke formation over steady-state catalyst could be attributed to moderately
 strong Lewis acid sites.
 [00158]      The specific individual concentrations of Lewis and Bronsted acid sites were
 not quantitatively determined, but a relative comparison was made by comparing the
 height of the peaks for each type of site. For such purpose, the absorption band near 1440
 cm- 1 is used for Lewis acid sites and the band at 1540 cm-1 is used for the Bronsted acid
 sites, as the technique used to parameterize catalyst of the present disclosure. The RTI-A9
 catalyst exhibited a Lewis to Bronsted acid site band height ratio of 1.1. In contrast, ZSM
 5 catalyst is reported in the literature to exhibit a Lewis to Bronsted acid site band height
 ratio greater than 10. While we do not wish to be bound by any theory or hypothesis as
 regards the efficacy of the catalysts of the present disclosure in catalytic pyrolysis of
 biomass, it may be that Lewis acid sites enhance adsorption of oxygenated molecules and
                                              - 31 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 that specific relative distributions of Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites in the catalyst
 achieve an appropriate balance of activity of the catalyst with the susceptibility to coke
 formation so that high yields of liquid product yield are facilitated.
 [00159]      Example IV (Surface Area and Porosity of the Catalyst)
 [00160]      The catalyst surface area and porosity are important parameters related to
 catalytic activity of tungstated zirconia catalyst. A catalyst with lower surface area may
 have a lower acid site density since active material is not exposed at the surface.          In
 addition, lower surface area catalyst with high acid site density may be more susceptible to
 deactivation by coking, since coking on one active site may hinder nearby sites on the
 catalyst.
 [00161]      The surface area of the RTI-A9 catalyst was measured by nitrogen adsorption
 technique and calculated based on the BET method, yielding a surface area of 78 m 2/g.
 Good activity was observed on materials having surface areas greater than 50 m2 /g.
 [00162]      High surface area of catalysts is possible due to porosity of individual catalyst
 particles.   Pores running through the particle expose more of the catalyst material to
 reactants. Catalyst materials such as ZSM-5 catalyst have high porosity comprising pores
 of about 0.6 nm size. Such small pores are on the same dimensional scale as reactant
 molecules and the ability of larger pyrolysis products to reach the active site can be
 limited. Pores in the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst are typically greater than 10 nm
 in size and do not create any steric hindrance of molecules reaching active sites.
 [00163]      Example V (Particle Size and Attrition)
 [00164]      Several characteristics are important to fluidization of catalysts.       Catalyst
 particles with diameters between 50-100 pm are typical of fluidized and transport reactor
 applications. Tungstated zirconia catalyst with particles in this range has shown good
 fluidization behavior.
 [00165]      In fluidization applications, attrition resistance is an important characteristic,
 since it is desirable to achieve good duration of catalyst usage to limit expensive catalyst
 replacement, as well as to avoid catalyst contamination of product streams that could
 otherwise occur with excessive attrition. The Davison Jet Cup attrition test characterizes
 attrition resistance of particulate materials by exposing the material to turbulence in a jet
 cup and relating the fines loss to attrition. Davison Jet Cup attrition testing was carried out
 on reference materials of fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) catalyst, which exhibited
                                               - 32-

WO 2014/089131                                                                    PCT/US2013/072948
 Davison Indices between 8 and 18.           Various samples of the tungstated zirconia catalyst
 exhibited Davison Indices of 8, 12, and 27.
 [00166]       Example VI (Model Compound Testing)
 [00167]       Model compound        studies are      a convenient way      to simplify   complex
 chemistries and provide insight into deoxygenation mechanisms/pathways on selected
 catalysts under controlled conditions. Guaiacol (2-methoxy phenol) is a compound
 produced in biomass pyrolysis, having functional groups similar to those present in many
 products obtained from biomass pyrolysis oils.
 [00168]       To demonstrate the effectiveness of the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst for
 deoxygenation of biomass pyrolysis vapors, guaiacol was introduced into a fixed bed
 micro reactor packed with the catalyst. Reactions were carried out at 400-500'C with a
 liquid hourly space velocity (LHSV), the ratio of the hourly volume of oil processed to the
 volume of catalyst, of 0.3 hr-      Nitrogen was used as a carrier gas with a flow rate of 100
 secm. Products were determined by online mass spectrometer. Coke was determined by
 products during an oxidation step to regenerate the catalyst. Products during the oxidation
 step were also monitored by an online mass spectrometer.
 [00169]       Table 1 below sets out the product yield, in weight percent, from the
 deoxygenation of guaiacol with the RTI-A9 tungstated zirconia catalyst at varying
 temperatures. Product monitoring by mass spectrometer gave no indication of additional
 products.
 Table 1. Guaicol Deoxygenation Results with RTI-A9(7pl/min feed, 100sccm dilutant)
   Temp.  Con.                            Product Yield (Weight %)                       Mass Balance
    (10     (%)                           PoutYed(egt%
                  H20   CO 2  Benzene   Toluene    Phenol   Cresol CO  CH 4   H2    Coke
    400    78.9   15.5  0.7      1.4      2.7       17.0     8.9   0.0 0.3    0.1   29.6     99.0
    450    96.2   21.0  1.6      8.0      4.9       22.2     6.1   0.0 0.7    0.2   35.3    104.1
    500    99.3   22.5  3.0     17.3      3.5       14.2     2.6   2.5 1.6    0.4   38.2    106.5
 [00170]       As shown in Table 1, reaction temperature affected guaiacol conversion and
 the oxygenated product distribution. Conversion increased from 79% at 400'C to greater
 than 99% at 500'C.          Water content in the product also increased with increasing
 temperature, indicating that the dehydration activity of the catalyst is increasing with
 temperature.     Phenol is a major product at all reaction temperatures, along with other
 partially or fully deoxygenated products.
                                                 - 33  -

WO 2014/089131                                                            PCT/US2013/072948
 [00171]     In the deoxygenation operation, removal of the methoxy group from guaiacol is
 the most facile pathway. At the tested lower temperature condition phenol is the dominant
 product, and coke and water are the other primary products. At more severe conditions,
 guaiacol conversion increases, additional oxygen is removed as carbon dioxide, and
 benzene/toluene yields increase significantly.     Formation of benzene and toluene may
 result from deoxygenation of the phenol product.           This was observed when the
 temperature was increased to 500'C and benzene and toluene yields increased at the
 expense of the phenol. The production of water, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide
 indicate that the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst was able to catalyze deoxygenation
 through multiple pathways (dehydration, decarboxylation, and decarbonylation).
 [00172]     During catalytic fast pyrolysis, coke on the catalyst surface needs to be
 periodically removed in an oxidation step, in order to regenerate the catalyst and recover
 deoxygenation capacity (activity). Over time, catalyst deactivation can occur if carbon
 cannot be effectively removed or if local hot spots form during repeated regeneration
 cycles so that catalyst sintering occurs.
 [00173]     An automated dual-fixed bed micro reactor system was utilized to evaluate
 long-term catalyst stability with respect to repeated deoxygenation and regeneration steps.
 Guaiacol conversion over the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst was measured over 100
 reaction/regeneration cycles. Two grams of the catalyst was loaded into the fixed bed
 reactor that was maintained at a temperature of 450'C. During the reaction step, 7
 pL/minute of guaiacol was fed with 100 seem of 20% argon in nitrogen over the catalyst
 for 60 minutes. The regeneration step followed, utilizing 50 seem of air and 50 seem of
 nitrogen flowing over the catalyst for 35 minutes to oxidize any coke formed on the
 catalyst.
 [00174]     These reaction conditions established a high initial activity, with over 90%
 conversion, without reaching complete conversion. This cycle is repeated 101 times with
 the same catalyst loading. The testing was completed over 12 days.         The last 6 days
 involved continuous automated operation of the micro reactor system.
 [00175]     The products and un-reacted guaiacol from the micro reactor system are
 measured with an online mass spectrometer (MS). FIG. 9 is a computer screen shot of the
 mass spectrometer data from the last 6 days of testing, covering 75 cycles of
 reaction/regeneration using guaiacol as a model compound in a micro reactor system.
 FIG. 10 shows the mass spectrometer data from a single cycle in the extended testing (100
                                             - 34 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                         PCT/US2013/072948
 reaction/regeneration cycles) for guaiacol deoxygenation with the tungstated zirconia RTI
 A9 catalyst at 450'C.
 [00176]      The change in the argon (40) signal, caused by valve switching, provides a
 timestamp in the data to indicate the beginning of new reaction and regeneration segments.
 The integrated area under the selected mass spectrometer signals during each segment is
 calculated to determine relative product concentrations. During guaiacol deoxygenation,
 several distinct mass signals are monitored to follow the evolution of various products.
 These mass signals and their associated products are listed in FIG. 10.                          A mass
 spectrometer response factor for each molecule can be determined to convert these relative
 measurements into absolute product concentrations, but since the mass spectrometer
 response factor is both the denominator and numerator, only the two guaiacol areas are
 needed to determine conversion according to the following equation:
           ~ vesif
           Gace     ~      ~
                          Ca     ~    A~-,             c~ l
                                            G-OUai co duriqp__ action* Guaiacvi M S ep ni F. co
                               Aren  duatac in basene for equal reaction time * Gua icd MS Response Factor'
 [00177]      Product distribution is determined as area percent of the carbon containing
 products. The response factor for water is significantly higher than the carbon products,
 making it difficult to compare those products when water is included in that area.
 [00178]      High guaiacol conversion was maintained for the duration of the extended
 testing, indicating no observable loss of initial activity after repeated catalyst regeneration.
 Conversion data are plotted in FIG. 11 for guaiacol conversion for each cycle during the
 extended testing of guaiacol deoxygenation with the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst at
 450'C. Over the first 10 cycles, the average conversion was 91.9%.                      Over the last 10
 cycles, the average conversion was 91.6%.            Ten cycles correspond to approximately one
 day.   Standard deviation of guaiacol conversion during the extended testing was 1.5%,
 indicating that the difference between conversion on the first day and on the last day is
 insignificant.    If catalyst deactivation caused a decrease in guaiacol conversion of 0.5%
 per day over the 10 day period, the conversion would have dropped 4%.
 [00179]      In addition to guaiacol conversion, the product distribution over the cycles
 remained constant.       The products as described by their area percent of the total mass
 spectrometer signal area, excluding water, are shown in FIG. 12.
 [00180]      FIG.     12 thus is a graph of product distribution from each cycle during
 extended testing of guaiacol deoxygenation with the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst,
                                                 - 35  -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 excluding the water signal, shown as an area percent, for each of carbon dioxide, benzene,
 toluene, phenol, and methyl phenol.
 [00181]     These results demonstrate the stable activity of the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9
 catalyst through 100 reaction/regeneration cycles.
 [00182]     Example VII (Catalytic Fast Pyrolysis)
 [00183]     Catalytic fast pyrolysis with the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst was
 carried out to produce a bio-crude with oxygen content below 20 wt%.            Testing was
 carried out in a fluidized bed micro-reactor system that allowed biomass to be fed directly
 into the catalyst bed where pyrolysis was conducted.        The fluidized bed micro-reactor
 system comprised a 1 inch diameter quartz reactor tube housed in a variable temperature
 furnace. An inert bed of silicon carbide (16 grit) acted as a support for the catalyst bed.
 Biomass solids were injected through a 0.25 inch diameter tube inserted through the
 silicon carbide bed such that the opening was just below the catalyst bed.          Biomass
 particles were entrained in a stream of nitrogen delivered by a mass flow controller
 arranged to convey them into the reactor, with the flow rate being adjusted to fully entrain
 the biomass solids. Additional nitrogen was also added to the bottom of the reactor to
 maintain fluidization in the catalyst bed.         The exit region of the reactor had a
 disengagement zone for solids collection.           Liquid products were collected by a
 condensation train comprising a heat exchanger, and ice cooled impinger, a dry ice cooled
 impinger and an electrostatic precipitator. A microGC gas chromatograph was used for
 online permanent gas analysis.
 [00184]     Fast pyrolysis generates a bio-oil with oxygen content similar to that of the
 initial feedstock. Table 2 shows the characteristics of feedstock, liquid products, and char
 for a white oak feedstock. Table 3 shows the product distribution from a fast pyrolysis
 and catalytic fast pyrolysis of white oak feedstock, in which the catalytic fast pyrolysis
 process utilized the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst. The liquid product is a mixture
 of water and organic liquids. In fast pyrolysis, this typically remains a single phase for
 white oak, but in the catalytic fast pyrolysis separates into an aqueous phase and organic
 phase.
                                             - 36 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                  PCT/US2013/072948
  Table 2.   ast Pyrolysis White oak characterizatin of feedstoek, liquid products, and char.
                                               Baseline        Biomass       BasLIine I
                                                 Bio-OiI     (White Oak)       Char
     Proximate Analysis (wt%)
       Volatile Matter                            659            75.2          25 5
       Fixed Carbon                                8             17.4            80
       Ash                                        0.07           0.39          4 32
       LOD                                       26.00            7.0           23
       Higher Heating Value (BTU/bdry)            9570           8250         12200
     Utimate Analysis (wt%, dry)
       Caron                                     5564           49.82         77 11
       Hydrogen                                   618            5.186         307
       Oxygen (by difference)                    37.97          43.81         15 22
       Nitrogen                                   0 12           0.10          0 27
       Sulfur                                     001            0.01          0,02
       Ash                                        0,07           0.39          4,32
 Table 3 Product distribution from whie      oak fast pyrelysis and caahycw fast pyrolyss with RTI
 A9.
                                                            Baseline       RTI-A9
                    Soids (wt%)                               14.3          19.8
                    Gas (wt%)                                 11.6          23,9
                    Water (wt%)                               184           28
                    Organic liquids, dry (wt%}                49.4          24 8
                      crude Composition (wt%I
                     in
                    C                                         5.6           72_9
                    H                                         62             7.2
                    0                                         380           19.9
                    Gas composition (vol%)
                                                              1.5            77
                    CO                                        25A           37 1
                                                              42.1          326
                    CH                                        3.5           10.6
                                                              274           12.0
 [00185]     Catalytic fast pyrolysis with the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst produced
 a liquid product whose dry oxygen content was below 20 weight percent, a significant
                                               -  37 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                  PCT/US2013/072948
 reduction from the fast pyrolysis bio-oil.           The catalyst fast pyrolysis results were
 consistent   with   a  model     compound      testing     in that  evidence    of  dehydration,
 decarbonylation, and decarboxylation are all presented by increases in the yields of water,
 carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide. The organic product also has improved properties
 by a greater than 60% reduction in the total acid number, indicating reduction in acids, and
 a less corrosive nature of the product, as compared to the fast pyrolysis oil product.
 [00186]     Additionally, when attempting to vaporize liquid product               at 350'C, a
 temperature similar to many potential processing steps, only 48% of the fast pyrolysis
 liquid organic product was vaporized. For the catalytic fast pyrolysis product, 82% was
 vaporized when the liquid product was heated to 350'C.
 [00187]     Based on these results, it appears that reducing oxygen content of the bio-oil
 will improve the bio-oil stability.
 [00188]     The chemical composition of the bio-crudes from fast pyrolysis and catalytic
 fast pyrolysis were characterized using GCxGc-ToFMS (Gas chromatography x gas
 chromatography - Time of Flight Mass Spectrometer) analysis.
 [00189]     Table 4 contains a compositional comparison of liquid products from fast
 pyrolysis and catalytic fast pyrolysis of white oak feedstock, wherein the catalytic fast
 pyrolysis utilized the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst, and the components of the
 liquid products were determined by GCxGc-ToFMS analysis.
 Table 4. Compositional comparison of liquid products from fast pyrolysis and RTI
 A9 catalytic fast pyrolysis of white oak by GCxGC-TOFMS analysis
                                                                  Catalytic Fast
                                                Fast Pyrolysis      Pyrolysis
                            Catalyst                  None          RTI-A9
                     Compound classes expresses in spectra area percent
                              Acids                     1.8              2
                             Furans                    5.4             6.3
                            Ketones                    11.7            11.5
                            Phenols                    4.7             14.1
                        Methoxyphenols                   8             14.1
                       Dimethoxyphenols               33.1             12.6
                   Polyoxygen compounds                5.3             ND
                             Sugars                    14.4            0.6
                        Hydroxy-PAHs                   ND              15.7
                            Paraffins                  0.2             0.8
                        monoaromatics                  0.8              1.5
                                              - 38  -

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
                            Fluorenes                 ND              1.9
                         Phenanthrenes                ND              2.8
                             Pyrenes                  ND              2.2
                          Higher PAHs                 ND              4.9
                            Unknown                   11.1            4.2
 [00190]      Table 4 shows that the catalytic fast pyrolysis process achieved a significant
 reduction in sugars, dimethoxyphenols, and polyoxygen compounds, and a significant
 increase in phenols and deoxygenated aromatic products, as compared to the baseline bio
 oil composition. Thus, the catalytic pyrolysis process using the tungstated zirconia RTI
 A9 catalyst produced a bio-crude with a higher concentration of deoxygenated products, in
 relation to the fast pyrolysis process utilizing no catalyst.
 [00191]      The catalytic fast pyrolysis process utilizing the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9
 catalyst yielded a bio-oil with lower oxygen content having improved properties such as
 better thermal conductivity and lower acid content, although the mass yield was lower.
 The baseline bio-oil has poor processability because the residual from reheating produces
 significant carbon, resulting in significant loss during upgrading to fuels.
 [00192]      Catalytic fast pyrolysis had lower carbon conversion efficiency in the bio
 crudes, but the intermediates generated in catalytic fast pyrolysis entail easier downstream
 processing.     Catalytic fast pyrolysis using the tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst
 produced a bio-oil with less than 20 wt% oxygen and achieved a significant carbon
 conversion efficiency, with 40% of the feedstock carbon being recovered in the bio-crude.
 [00193]      FIG. 13 is a graph of carbon conversion efficiency to bio-crude prior to
 hydroprocessing, as a percentage of feedstock carbon, plotted as a function of oxygen
 content as a weight percent of the bio-crude. The plotted data include carbon conversion
 efficiency data for bio-crude produced by catalytic fast pyrolysis with various catalyst
 materials, and the carbon conversion efficiency for bio-crude produced by pyrolysis of
 white oak feedstock using the RTI-A9 catalyst.
 [00194]      As indicated on the graph, the objective is to maximize carbon conversion
 efficiency while reducing oxygen content.
 [00195]      The fast pyrolysis bio-crudes variously contained oxygen at concentrations in a
 range of 17-32 wt%, based on weight of the bio-crude. Carbon conversion efficiency for
 such bio-crudes was in the range of 20-50%.               These higher-oxygen bio-crudes are
 expected to experience significant losses in downstream processing.
                                               - 39 -

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 [00196]     The bio-crude produced using the RTI-A9 catalyst contained 20 wt% oxygen.
 Carbon conversion efficiency for this bio-crude was approximately 40%.        The use of the
 RTI-A9 catalyst therefore enabled the high carbon conversion efficiency production of
 bio-crude that had low oxygen content, rendering it suitable for downstream processing
 without significant yield loss.
 [00197]     Example VIII (Catalytic Fast Pyrolysis of Corn Stover)
 [00198]     The tungstated zirconia RTI-A9 catalyst was also used for catalytic fast
 pyrolysis of corn stover. Corn stover has a higher ash content than white oak feedstock,
 and results in higher char/solid yield than the white oak feedstock.            The product
 distribution from corn stover fast pyrolysis and catalytic fast pyrolysis using the RTI-A9
 catalyst is set out in Table 5 below, and Table 6 lists the chemical composition from the
 bio-crude products with corn stover. The chemical composition of the bio-crude from
 corn stover catalytic fast pyrolysis is similar in composition to the white oak catalytic fast
 pyrolysis bio-crude.
 Table 5. Product distribution from corn stover fast pyrolysis and catalytic fast
 pyrolysis with RTI-A9.
                 Catalyst                    None               RTI-A9
                    Product Yields (wt% of fed biomass)
              Solids (wt%)                    20.4               22.7
               Gas (wt%)                      19.9               22.2
              Water (wt%)                      27                30.0
         Bio-crude, dry (wt%)                  35                18.7
                        Bio-crude Composition (wt%)
                    C                          58                 73
                    H                           6                  7
                    0                          36                 20
                           Gas composition (vol%)
                   H2                          3.9                8.1
                   CO                         41.2               37.2
                  C02                         41.6               42.4
                  CH 4                         8.3                5.3
 Table 6. Compositional comparison of liquid products from fast pyrolysis and RTI
 A9 catalytic fast pyrolysis of corn stover by GCxGC-TOFMS analysis
                                                               Catalytic Fast
                                               Fast Pyrolysis    Pyrolysis
                            Catalyst                None          RTI-A9
                             Acids                   2.1             2.5
                                              -40-

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
                            Furans                   4.2           5.4
                           Ketones                  31.5           11.2
                           Phenols                  11.4          21.3
                       Methoxyphenols               10.8           14.8
                      Dimethoxyphenols              30.9           11.4
                   Polyoxygen compounds              2.4           ND
                            Sugars                   2.8           0.9
                        Hydroxy-PAHs                ND             14.4
                           Paraffins                 0.2           0.9
                        monoaromatics                0.3           2.9
                          Fluorenes                 ND              1.9
                        Phenanthrenes               ND             3.1
                           Pyrenes                  ND             2.1
                         Higher PAHs                ND             2.9
                          Unknown                    3.4           4.3
 [00199]     While the disclosure has been set out herein in reference to specific aspects,
 features and illustrative embodiments, it will be appreciated that the utility of the
 disclosure is not thus limited, but rather extends to and encompasses numerous other
 variations, modifications and alternative embodiments, as will suggest themselves to those
 of ordinary skill in the field of the present disclosure, based on the description herein.
 Correspondingly, the invention as hereinafter claimed is intended to be broadly construed
 and interpreted,    as including    all  such    variations, modifications  and alternative
 embodiments, within its spirit and scope.
                                             - 41 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
                                             THE CLAIMS
 What is claimed is:
 1. A catalyst useful for catalytic pyrolysis of biomass, said catalyst comprising:
 (i) matrix material comprising a support and/or binder, and
 (ii) at least one metal oxide on the matrix material, wherein the metal oxide comprises
 metal selected from the group consisting of tungsten, chromium, cobalt, molybdenum,
 nickel, and combinations thereof.
 2. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites are present on the
 catalyst at a Lewis to Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in a range of from
 0.1 to 50.
 3. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites are present on the
 catalyst at a Lewis to Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in a range of from
 0.5 to 20.
 4. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites are present on the
 catalyst at a Lewis to Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in a range of from
 0.75 to 5.
 5. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal oxide has a loading on the matrix material of
 from 10 to 20% by weight, based on total weight of the metal oxide and matrix material.
 6. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal oxide has a loading on the matrix material of
 from 12 to 18% by weight, based on total weight of the metal oxide and matrix material.
 7. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal oxide has a loading on the matrix material of
 from 15 to 17% by weight, based on total weight of the metal oxide and matrix material.
 8. The catalyst of claim 1, of particulate form.
                                              - 42 -

WO 2014/089131                                                             PCT/US2013/072948
 9. The catalyst of claim 8, having an average particle size in a range of from 20 to 150
 pram.
 10. The catalyst of claim 8, having an average particle size in a range of from 25 to 125
 pram.
 11. The catalyst of claim 8, having an average particle size in a range of from 30 to 80
 pram.
 12.    The catalyst of claim 1, having an acid site loading, as measured by ammonia
 adsorption, in a range of from 3 to 10 mL of NH 3 per gram of catalyst.
 13.    The catalyst of claim 1, having an acid site loading, as measured by ammonia
 adsorption, in a range of from 3 to 8 mL of NH 3 per gram of catalyst.
 14. The catalyst of claim 1, having a tap bulk density in a range of from 0.5 to 2.2 gm per
 cc of catalyst.
 15. The catalyst of claim 1, having a BET surface area in a range of from 20 to 150
 m 2 /gram.
 16. The catalyst of claim 1, comprising porosity providing a pore volume in a range of
 from 0.2 to 1.0 cc of pore volume per gram of catalyst.
 17. The catalyst of claim 1, characterized by an Attrition Index in a range of from 2 to 25.
 18. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal oxide comprises tungsten oxide.
 19. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the matrix material comprises a support comprising
 material selected from the group consisting of titania, alumina, silica, ceria, zirconia,
 zeolites, and compatible mixtures, alloys, and composites of two or more of the foregoing.
 20. The catalyst of claim 1, comprising a non-zeolitic support.
                                             - 43 -

WO 2014/089131                                                               PCT/US2013/072948
 21. The catalyst of claim 1, comprising a zirconia support.
 22. The catalyst of claim 21, wherein the zirconia comprises tetragonal phase zirconia.
 23. The catalyst of claim 22, wherein the metal oxide comprises tungsten oxide.
 24. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the matrix material comprises a binder.
 25. The catalyst of claim 24, wherein the binder comprises material selected from the
 group consisting of macroreticulate polymers, alumina, kieselguhr, kaolin, bentonite,
 clays, and compatible combinations of two or more of the foregoing.
 26. The catalyst of claim 1, further comprising a catalytic promoter.
 27. The catalyst of claim 26, wherein said catalytic promoter comprises a metal selected
 from the group consisting of platinum, palladium, ruthenium, cobalt, nickel, molybdenum,
 hafnium,    copper, iron, tin, manganese,        magnesium, chromium,        lanthanum,   and
 combinations thereof.
 28. The catalyst of claim 27, wherein the catalytic promoter is present in the catalyst at
 concentration of I to 15 % by weight.
 29. A catalyst useful for catalyzing pyrolysis of biomass, said catalyst comprising a
 zirconia support and tungsten oxide on the zirconia support at a tungsten oxide loading of
 from 10 to 20% by weight, based on total weight of zirconia and tungsten oxide, said
 catalyst being of particulate form with an average particle size in a range of from 20 to 150
 pm, with an acid site loading, as measured by ammonia adsorption, in a range of from 3 to
 10 mL of NH 3 per gram of catalyst, and wherein Lewis acid and Bronsted acid sites are
 present on the catalyst at a Lewis to Bronsted infrared band height ratio (cm-1/cm-) in a
 range of from 0.1 to 50.
 30. A process for catalytic pyrolysis of biomass, comprising:
                                             - 44 -

WO 2014/089131                                                                PCT/US2013/072948
 reacting a biomass starting material under pyrolysis conditions in the presence of a catalyst
 to yield a pyrolysis reaction product; and
 regenerating the catalyst used in the pyrolysis reaction, to remove coke deposited on the
 catalyst and yield regenerated catalyst for use in the pyrolysis reaction,
 wherein the catalyst comprises catalyst according to any one of claims 1 to 29.
 31. The process of claim 30, wherein the biomass starting material comprises a
 lignocellulosic material.
 32. The process of claim 30,          wherein the biomass starting material comprises
 particularized biomass having an average particle size in a range of from 0.1 mm to 10
 mm.
 33.   The process of claim 30,        wherein the biomass starting material comprises
 particularized biomass having an average particle size in a range of from 0.1 mm to 8mm.
 34. The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis reaction is carried out at a weight ratio
 of catalyst to biomass starting material that is in a range of from 1:1 to 100:1.
 35.   The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis reaction is carried out in a reactor.
 36. The process of claim 35, wherein the reactor comprises a transport reactor.
 37. The process of claim 35, wherein the reactor comprises a fluidized bed reactor.
 38. The process of claim 35, wherein the reactor comprises a circulating fluid bed reactor.
 39. The process of claim 35, wherein residence time of the biomass starting material in
 the reactor is in a range of from 0.25 to 5 seconds.
 40. The process of claim 35, wherein the catalyst is fluidized in said reactor.
                                              - 45 -

WO 2014/089131                                                          PCT/US2013/072948
 41. The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis conditions comprise temperature in a
 range of from 200'C to 700'C.
 42. The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis conditions comprise temperature in a
 range of from 200'C to 550'C.
 43.   The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis conditions comprise pressure in a
 range of from 1 to 25 bar.
 44. The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis conditions comprise ambient pressure.
 45.    The process of claim 30, wherein the pyrolysis reaction and regeneration of the
 catalyst are carried out continuously with one another.
 46.   The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out at
 temperature in a range of from 400'C to 10000 C.
 47.   The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out at
 temperature in a range of from 400'C to 850'C.
 48.   The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out at
 temperature in a range of from 500'C to 700'C.
 49.  The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out in the
 presence of oxygen or an oxygen-containing gas.
 50. The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out in the
 presence of air.
 51. The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out in the
 presence of dilute air.
                                             - 46 -

WO 2014/089131                                                            PCT/US2013/072948
 52. The process of claim 51, wherein the dilute air comprises a diluent selected from the
 group consisting of argon, helium, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide.
 53. The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out in the
 presence of (i) steam and (ii) air, dilute air or oxygen.
 54. The process of claim 53, wherein the dilute air comprises a diluent selected from the
 group consisting of argon, helium, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide.
 55. The process of claim 30, wherein regeneration of the catalyst is carried out in the
 presence of (i) dilute steam and (ii) air, dilute air or oxygen.
 56. The process of claim 55, wherein the dilute steam or dilute air comprises a diluent
 selected from the group consisting of argon, helium, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide.
 57. The process of claim 30, further comprising recovering tail gas from regeneration of
 the catalyst, and recycling the tail gas to the pyrolysis reaction.
 58. The process of claim 30, further comprising recovering a bio-oil from the pyrolysis
 product.
 59. The process of claim 58, wherein recovering the bio-oil from the pyrolysis product
 comprises:
 separating the pyrolysis product to recover (i) a vapor and gas fraction and (ii) a solids
 fraction comprising pyrolysis product solids, including biomass char, unreacted biomass,
 and biomass ash, and the catalyst;
 cooling the vapor and gas fraction to recover a bio-crude liquid; and
 removing water from the bio-crude liquid to yield said bio-oil.
 60. The process of claim 59, wherein the catalyst from said solids fraction is regenerated
 and thereafter is recycled to the pyrolysis reaction.
                                                - 47 -

WO 2014/089131                                                              PCT/US2013/072948
 61. The process of claim 59, wherein said bio-oil has an oxygen content in a range of
 from 1% to 25% of oxygen by weight, based on weight of the bio-oil.
 62. The process of claim 29, having a carbon conversion efficiency in a range of from
 20% to 65% by weight, based on weight of the biomass starting material.
 63. A system for catalytic pyrolysis of biomass, comprising a pyrolysis reactor adapted to
 react biomass starting material under pyrolysis conditions in the presence of catalyst to
 yield pyrolysis product, and a regenerator adapted to receive coked catalyst from the
 pyrolysis reactor and to regenerate same for recirculation to the pyrolysis reactor, wherein
 the pyrolysis reactor is provided with catalyst according to any one of claims 1 to 28.
                                             - 48 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
