HIGH SPEED, COMPACT CENTRIFUGE FOR USE WITH SMALL
SAMPLEVOLUMES
ABSTRACT
A compact high speed centrifuge for use with low volume sample containers, the centrifuge
comprising: a centrifuge rotor (800); a motor (622) for rotating said centrifuge rotor (800); and a
detector (670) integrated with the motor (622) and configured to determine at least a rotational
position of a rotating portion of the motor (622), wherein the detector (670) uses at least two
different types of encoder information to determine said rotational position.

                                                    1
HIGH SPEED, COMPACT CENTRIFUGE FOR USE WITH SMALL
SAMPLEVOLUMES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013292400, the
content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0001 a] Traditional centrifuges are excessively large and inefficient for handling centrifugation
of small volumes of liquid samples. They also fail to include certain features that would be
desired when processing small sample volumes.
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[0002] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or
patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
SUMMARY
[0003] It should be understood that embodiments in this disclosure may be adapted to have one
or more of the features described herein.
[0004] In one nonlimiting example, an automated system is provided for separating one or more
components in a biological fluid. The system may comprise of: (a) a centrifuge comprising one
or more buckets configured to receive a container to effect said separating of one or more
components in a fluid sample; and (b) the container, wherein the container includes one or more
shaped features that is complementary to a shaped feature of the bucket.
[0005] It should be understood that embodiments herein may be adapted to have one or more of
the following features. In one nonlimiting example, the system may have one or more buckets
that is a swinging bucket that is at or near a vertical position when the centrifuge is at rest and
that is at or near a horizontal position when the centrifuge is spinning. Optionally, the system

                                                  la
may have a plurality of swinging buckets that are spaced radially symmetrically on the
centrifuge. Optionally, the fluid sample is a biological fluid. Optionally, the biological fluid is
blood. Optionally, the container is configured to contain 100 uL or less of sample fluid.
Optionally, the container is configured to contain 50 uL or less of sample fluid. Optionally, the
container is configured to contain 25 uL or less of sample fluid. Optionally, the container is
closed on one end and open at an opposing end. Optionally, the container is a centrifugation
vessel. Optionally, the centrifugation vessel has a rounded end with one or more interior nubs.

                                                 2
Optionally, the system includes an extraction tip with one or more shaped features that is
complementary to a shaped feature of the centrifugation vessel, and that is configured to fit
within the centrifugation vessel. Optionally, the shaped feature of the bucket includes one or
more shelves upon which a protruding portion of the container is configured to rest. Optionally,
the bucket is configured to be capable of accepting a plurality of containers having different
configurations, and wherein the shaped feature of the bucket includes a plurality of shelves,
wherein a first container having a first configuration is configured to rest upon a first shelf, and a
second container having a second configuration is configured to rest upon a second shelf.
    [0006]      In yet another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge is
provided comprising a centrifuge body; a motor for rotating the centrifuge body; and a detector
integrated with the motor and configured to determine at least a rotational position of a rotating
portion of the motor, wherein the detector uses at least two different types of encoder
information to determine the rotational position.
    [0007]      It should be understood that embodiments herein may be adapted to have one or
more of the following features. In one nonlimiting example, the detector uses at least optical
encoder and Hall-effect techniques to determine rotational position. Optionally, the detector
uses at least optical encoder and Hall-effect techniques to determine at least rotational position
and rotational velocity. Optionally, the detector has a first surface directed towards detecting
one type of encoder information and a second surface directed towards detecting another type of
encoder information. Optionally, the first surface and the second surface are oriented in different
directions. Optionally, the first surface and the second surface are oriented in the same direction
Optionally, the motor includes a plurality of detectors for determining rotational position.
Optionally, the motor includes a first encoder disc providing the first type of encoder information
and a second encoder disc providing the second type of encoder information. Optionally,
Optionally, the motor includes a first encoder disc providing optical encoder information and a
second encoder disc providing magnetic encoder information. Optionally, the motor includes an
encoder disc providing the first type of encoder information and the second type of encoder
information. Optionally, the motor includes an encoder disc providing both optical encoder
information and magnetic encoder information. It should be understood that although the motor
with integrated encoder components is described in the context of a centrifuge, the motor may
also be adapted for use in other scenarios that desires to have position and/or velocity detector
features integrated into the motor.
    [0008]      In yet another embodiment described herein, a method is provided comprising:
providing a motor; integrating a first type of encoder into the motor; integrating a second type of

                                                3
encoder into the motor; determining rotational position of a rotating portion of the motor using
the first type of encoder, and determining rotational velocity of the rotating portion of the motor
using the second type of encoder.
     [0009]     It should be understood that embodiments herein may be adapted to have one or
more of the following features. In one nonlimiting example, the first type of encoder provides
optical encoder information. Optionally, the first type of encoder provides magnetic encoder
information. Optionally, the first type of encoder provides Hall-effect encoder information.
Optionally, the first type of encoder and the second type of encoder provide different types of
encoder information.
     [0010]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a first portion comprising a
thermally insulating material; a second portion comprising a thermally conductive material;
wherein containers are arranged such that the containers are located in areas with the thermally
insulating material; wherein the thermally conductive material is configured to channel heat in a
direction leading away from the containers.
     [0011]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; an active cooling unit for minimizing heat transfer
to the sample; wherein containers are arranged such that the containers are located in areas with
reduced thermal exposure; the active cooling unit configured to cool the drive mechanism;
wherein stator is located coaxially within a rotor of a motor in the drive mechanism.
     [0012]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; and a position detector for use in determining
rotational position of the centrifuge body.
     [0013]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; and autobalancing weights coupled to the centrifuge
body, wherein such weights are configured to move under centrifugal force to a location to
minimize off-balance rotation of the centrifuge body with uneven amounts of load in sample
holders of the centrifuge.
     [0014]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive

                                                4
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; and at least one air bearing configured to operably
support the centrifuge.
    [0015]      In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge housing; a
centrifuge body; a drive mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; and at least one air bearing
configured to operably support the centrifuge, wherein at least a portion of the air bearing is a
part of the centrifuge housing.
    [0016]      In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge housing; a
centrifuge body; a drive mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; a force detector configured
to detect rate changes in force outside a range of pre-determined force conditions.
    [0017]      It should be understood that embodiments herein may be adapted to have one or
more of the following features. In one nonlimiting example, the centrifuge vessel holders pivot
inward toward a center axis of the centrifuge rotor under centrifugal force. Optionally, the
centrifuge vessel holders form a flush surface with rotor body to minimize aerodynamic drag.
Optionally, the centrifuge vessel holder is configured to retract downward under centrifugal
force. Optionally, wherein electrical connections are not disrupted to centrifuge body cooling
elements, even if such elements are in motion during centrifuge operation.
    [0018]      In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body, wherein the centrifuge body extends downward to
cover at least a portion of the drive mechanism; wherein the drive mechanism comprises a stator
and a rotor; wherein the rotor is concentric about the stator.
    [0019]      In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body, wherein the centrifuge body extends downward to
cover at least a portion of the drive mechanism; wherein the drive mechanism comprises a stator
and a rotor; wherein the stator is concentric about the rotor.
    [0020]      In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; one or more swing holders on the centrifuge body
for containing a centrifuge vessel; wherein a maximum dimension of the swing holders or the
sample containers does not exceed about 10mm.

                                                 5
     [0021]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; one or more swing holders on the centrifuge body
for containing a centrifuge vessel; wherein the swing holders, during centrifuge operation, move
from a first orientation to a second orientation more horizontal than the first orientation.
     [0022]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body; a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body; one or more swing holders on the centrifuge body
for containing a centrifuge vessel; wherein width of the sample container is greater than a length
of the sample container.
     [0023]     In another embodiment described herein, a compact high speed centrifuge for use
with sample containers is provided. The centrifuge may comprise a centrifuge body and a drive
mechanism for rotating the centrifuge body.
     [0024]     This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified
form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended
to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be
used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     [0025]     Figures 1 to 3 show various views of embodiments of a centrifuge described
herein.
     [0026]     Figures 4 to 5 show various views of embodiments of a centrifuge described
herein.
     [0027]     Figures 6 to 8 show various views of embodiments of vessel holders as described
herein.
     [0028]     Figures 9 to 12 show various embodiments of a centrifuge described herein.
     [0029]     Figures 13 to 16 show various views of embodiments of centrifuges with thermal
control features as described herein.
     [0030]     Figures 17A to 17G show various embodiments of devices and methods for
position and/or velocity control as described herein.
     [0031]     Figures 18A to 18C show various embodiments of self-balancing features
described herein.
     [0032]     Figures 19 to 21 show various embodiments of devices and methods as described
herein,

                                                  6
     [0033]     Figure 22 shows a schematic of one embodiment of an integrated system having
sample handling, pre-processing, and analysis components.
                        DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
     [0034]     It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the
following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the
invention, as claimed. It may be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims,
the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a material" may include mixtures of materials,
reference to "a compound" may include multiple compounds, and the like. References cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, except to the extent that they
conflict with teachings explicitly set forth in this specification.
     [0035]     In this specification and in the claims which follow, reference will be made to a
number of terms which shall be defined to have the following meanings:
     [0036]     "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described circumstance
may or may not occur, so that the description includes instances where the circumstance occurs
and instances where it does not. For example, if a device optionally contains a feature for a
sample collection well, this means that the sample collection well may or may not be present,
and, thus, the description includes both structures wherein a device possesses the sample
collection well and structures wherein sample collection well is not present.
Centrifuges
     [0037]     Figure 1, Figure 2, and Figure 3 show scale perspectives of a centrifuge (Figure 1
- side view, Figure 2 - front face view, Figure 3 - rear view) that can be integrated into the
system. The centrifuge may contain an electric motor capable of turning the rotor at 15,000 rpm.
One type of centrifuge rotor is shaped somewhat like a fan blade is mounted on the motor
spindle in a vertical plane. Affixed to the rotor is an element which holds the sample holding
elements (tip) and provides a ledge or shelf on which the end of the tip distal to the motor axis
rests and which provides support during the centrifugation so that the sample cannot escape. The
tip may be further supported at its proximal end by a mechanical stop in the rotor. This can be
provided so that the force generated during centrifugation does not cause the tip to cut through
the soft vinyl cap. The tip can be inserted and removed by standard pick and place mechanisms
but preferably by a pipette. The rotor is a single piece of acrylic (or other material) shaped to
minimize vibration and noise during operation of the centrifuge. The rotor is (optionally) shaped

                                                  7
so that when it is oriented in particular angles to the vertical, other movable components in the
instrument can move past the centrifuge. The sample holding elements are centrifugally
balanced by counter masses on the opposite side of the rotor such that the center of rotational
inertia is axial relative to the motor. The centrifuge motor may provide positional data to a
computer which can then control the rest position of the rotor (typically vertical before and after
centrifugation).
     [0038]      To minimize centrifugation time (without generating too much mechanical stress
during centrifugation) according to published standards (DIN 58933-1; for the U.S. the CLSI
standard H07-A3 "Procedure for Determining Packed Cell Volume by the Microhematocrit
Method"; Approved Standard - Third Edition) convenient dimensions for the rotor are in the
range of about 5 - 10 cm spinning at about 10 - 20 thousand rpm giving a time to pack the red
cells of about 5 min.
     [0039]      In some embodiments, a centrifuge may be a horizontally oriented centrifuge with
a swinging bucket design. In some preferable embodiments, the axis of rotation of the centrifuge
is vertical. In alternate embodiments, the axis of rotation can be horizontal or at any angle. The
centrifuge may be capable of simultaneously spinning two or more vessels and may be designed
to be fully integrated into an automated system employing computer-controlled pipettes. In
some embodiments, the vessels may be close-bottomed. The swinging bucket design may permit
the centrifugation vessels to be passively oriented in a vertical position when stopped, and spin
out to a fixed angle when spinning. In some embodiments, the swinging buckets may permit the
centrifugation vessels to spin out to a horizontal orientation. Alternatively they may spin out to
any angle between a vertical and horizontal position (e.g., about 15, 30, 45, 60, or 75 degrees
from vertical. The centrifuge with swinging bucket design may meet the positional accuracy and
repeatability requirements of a robotic system a number of positioning systems are employed.
     [0040]      A computer-based control system may use position information from an optical
encoder in order to spin the rotor at controlled slow speeds. Because an appropriate motor could
be designed for high-speed performance, accurate static positions need not be held using position
feedback alone. In some embodiments, a cam in combination with a solenoid-actuated lever
may be employed to achieve very accurate and stable stopping at a fixed number of positions.
Using a separate control system and feedback from Hall-Effect sensors built into the motor, the
velocity of the rotor can be very accurately controlled at high speeds.
     [0041]      Because a number of sensitive instruments must function simultaneously within
the assay instrument system, the design of the centrifuge preferably minimizes or reduces
vibration. The rotor may be aerodynamically designed with a smooth exterior - fully enclosing

                                                   8
the buckets when they are in their horizontal position. Also, vibration dampening can be
employed in multiple locations in the design of the case. It should be understood that any of the
embodiments in Figures 1-3 may be configured to have any of the other features described in this
disclosure.
Rotor
     [0042]      A centrifuge rotor can be a component of the system which may hold and spin the
centrifugation vessel(s). The axis of rotation can be vertical, and thus the rotor itself can be
positioned horizontally. However, in alternate embodiments, different axes of rotation and rotor
positions can be employed. There are two components known as buckets positioned
symmetrically on either side of the rotor which hold the centrifugation vessels. Alternative
configurations are possible in which buckets are oriented with radial symmetry, for example
three buckets oriented at 120 degrees. Any number of buckets may be provided, including but
not limited to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more buckets. The buckets can be evenly spaced from one
another. For example, if n buckets are provided where n is a whole number, then the buckets
may be spaced about 360/n degrees apart from one another. In other embodiments, the buckets
need not be spaced evenly around one another or with radial symmetry.
     [0043]      When the rotor is stationary, these buckets, influenced by gravity, may passively
fall such as to position the vessels vertically and to make them accessible to the pipette. Figure 4
shows an example of a rotor at rest with buckets vertical. In some embodiments, the buckets
may passively fall to a predetermined angle that may or may not be vertical. When the rotor
spins, the buckets are forced into a nearly horizontal position or to a predetermined angle by
centrifugal forces. Figure 5 shows an example of a rotor at a speed with buckets at a small angle
to horizontal. There can be physical hard stops for both the vertical and horizontal positions
acting to enforce their accuracy and positional repeatability.
     [0044]      The rotor may be aerodynamically designed with a disk shape, and as few
physical features as possible in order to minimize vibration caused by air turbulence. To achieve
this, the outer geometry of the bucket may exactly match that of the rotor such that when the
rotor is spinning and the bucket can be forced horizontal the bucket and rotor can be perfectly
aligned.
     [0045]      To facilitate plasma extraction, the rotor may be angled down toward the ground
relative to the horizon. Because the angle of the bucket can be matched to that of the rotor, this
may enforce a fixed spinning angle for the bucket. The resulting pellet from such a
configuration could be angled relative to the vessel when placed upright. A narrow extraction tip

                                                9
may be used to aspirate plasma from the top of the centrifugation vessel. By placing the
extraction tip near the bottom of the slope created by the angle pellet, the final volume of plasma
can be more efficiently extracted without disturbing the sensitive buffy coat.
    [0046]      A variety of tubes designs can be accommodated in the buckets of the device. In
some embodiments, the various tube designs may be closed ended. Some are shaped like
conventional centrifuge tubes with conical bottoms. Other tube designs may be cylindrical.
Tubes with a low ratio of height to cross-sectional area may be favored for cell processing.
Tubes with a large ratio (>10:1) may be suitable for accurate measurement of hematocrit and
other imaging requirements. However, any height to cross-sectional area ratio may be
employed. The buckets can be made of any of several plastics (polystyrene, polypropylene), or
any other material discussed elsewhere herein. Buckets have capacities ranging from a few
microliters to about a milliliter. The tubes may be inserted into and removed from the centrifuge
using a "pick and place" mechanism.
Control System
    [0047]      Due to the spinning and positioning requirements of the centrifuge device, a dual
control system approach may be used. To index the rotor to specific rotational orientations, a
position based control system may be implemented. In some embodiments, the control system
may employ a PID (Proportional Integral Derivative) control system. Other feedback control
systems known in the art can be employed. Positional feedback for the position controller may
be provided by a high-resolution optical encoder. For operating the centrifuge at low to high
speeds, a velocity controller may be implemented, while employing a PID control system tuned
for velocity control. Rotational rate feedback for the velocity controller may be provided by a set
of simple Hall-Effect sensors placed on the motor shaft. Each sensor may generate a square wave
at one cycle per motor shaft rotation.
Stopping Mechanism
    [0048]      To consistently and firmly position the rotor in a particular position, a physical
stopping mechanism may be employed in some embodiments herein. In one embodiment, the
stopping mechanism may use a cam, coupled to the rotor, along with a solenoid-actuated lever.
The cam may be shaped like a circular disk with a number of "C" shaped notches machined
around the perimeter. To position the centrifuge rotor, its rotational velocity may first be
lowered to, at most, 30RPM. In other embodiments, the rotational velocity may be lowered to
any other amount, including but not limited to about 5 rpm, 10 rpm, 15 rpm, 20 rpm, 25 rpm, 35

                                               10
rpm, 40 rpm, or 50 rpm. Once the speed is sufficiently slow, the lever may be actuated. At the
end of the lever is a cam follower which may glide along the perimeter of the cam with minimal
friction. Once the cam follower reaches the center of a particular notch in the cam, the force of
the solenoid-actuated lever can overcome that of the motor and the rotor may be brought to a
halt. At that point the motor may be electronically braked, and, in combination with the stopping
mechanism a rotational position can be very accurately and firmly held indefinitely.
Centrifuge bucket(s)
     [0049]     The centrifuge swing-out buckets may be configured to accommodate different
type of centrifuge tubes. In preferable embodiments, the various tube types may have a collar or
flange at their upper (open) end. This collar or flange feature may rests on the upper end of the
bucket and support the tube during centrifugation. As shown in Figures 6, 7, and 8, conical and
cylindrical tubes of various lengths and volumes can be accommodated. Figures 6, 7, and 8
provide examples of buckets and other bucket designs may be employed. For example, Figure 6
shows an example of a bucket configuration. The bucket may have side portions that mate with
the centrifuge and allow the bucket to swing freely. The bucket may have a closed bottom and
an opening at the top. Figure 7 shows an example of a centrifugation vessel mated with the
bucket. As previously mentioned, the bucket may be shaped to accept various configurations of
centrifugation vessels. The centrifugation vessel may have one or more protruding member that
may rest upon the bucket. The centrifugation vessel may be shaped with one or more features
that may mate with the centrifugation bucket. The feature may be a shaped feature of the vessel
or one or more protrusion. Figure 8 shows an example of another centrifugation vessel that can
be mated with the bucket. As previously described, the bucket can have one or more shaped
feature that may allow different configurations of centrifugation vessels to mate with the bucket.
It should be understood that any of the embodiments the centrifuge in Figures 4-8 may be
configured to have any of the other features described in this disclosure.
Centrifuge tubes and sample extraction techniques
     [0050]     The centrifuge tube and extraction tip may be provided individually and can be
mated together for extraction of material following centrifugation. The centrifugation tube and
extraction tip may be designed to deal with complex processes in an automated system. Any
dimensions are provided by way of example only, and other dimensions of the same or differing
proportions may be utilized.
     [0051]     The system can enable one or more of the following:

                                                 11
    [0052]        1.     Rapid processing of small blood samples (typically 5 - 50 uL)
    [0053]       2.      Accurate and precise measurement of hematocrit
    [0054]       3.      Efficient removal of plasma
    [0055]       4.      Efficient re-suspension of formed elements (red and white blood cells)
    [0056]       5.      Concentration of white cells (following labeling with fluorescent
antibodies and fixation plus lysis of red cells)
    [0057]       6.      Optical confirmation of red cell lysis and recovery of white cells
Centrifugation Vessel and Extraction Tip Overview
    [0058]       A custom vessel and tip may be used for the operation of the centrifuge in order
to satisfy the variety of constraints placed on the system. The centrifugation vessel may be a
closed bottom tube designed to be spun in the centrifuge. In some embodiments, the
centrifugation vessel may be the vessel illustrated in Figure 116 or may have one or more
features illustrated in Figure 116. It may have a number of unique features enabling the wide
range of required functionality including hematocrit measurement, RBC lysing, pellet re
suspension and efficient plasma extraction. The extraction tip may be designed to be inserted
into the centrifugation vessel for precise fluid extraction, and pellet re-suspension. In some
embodiments, the extraction tip may be the tip illustrated in Figure 117 or may have one or more
features illustrated in Figure 117. Exemplary specifications for extraction tips are discussed
herein and may also be found in U.S. Application Ser. Nos. 13/355,458 and 13/244,947 fully
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
Centrifugation Vessel
    [0059]       In one embodiment, the centrifugation vessel may be designed to handle two
separate usage scenarios, each associated with a different anti-coagulant and whole blood
volume.
    [0060]       A first usage scenario may require that 40uL of whole blood with Heparin be
pelleted, the maximum volume of plasma be recovered, and the hematocrit measured using
computer vision. In the case of 60% hematocrit or below the volume of plasma required or
preferable may be about 40uL*40%=16uL.
    [0061]       In some embodiments, it will not be possible to recover 100% of the plasma
because the buffy coat must not be disturbed, thus a minimum distance must be maintained
between the bottom of the tip and the top of the pellet. This minimum distance can be
determined experimentally but the volume (V) sacrificed as a function of the required safety

                                                 12
distance (d) can be estimated using: V(d) = d*7r1.25mm2. For example, for a required safety
distance of 0.25 mm, the sacrificed volume could be 1.23uL for the 60% hematocrit case. This
volume can be decreased by decreasing the internal radius of the hematocrit portion of the
centrifugation vessel. However, because in some embodiments, that narrow portion must fully
accommodate the outer radius of the extraction tip which can be no smaller than 1.5 mm, the
existing dimensions of the centrifugation vessel may be close to the minimum.
     [0062]      Along with plasma extraction, in some embodiments it may also be required that
the hematocrit be measured using computer vision. In order to facilitate this process the total
height for a given volume of hematocrit may be maximized by minimizing the internal diameter
of the narrow portion of the vessel. By maximizing the height, the relationship between changes
in hematocrit volume and physical change in column height may be optimized, thus increasing
the number of pixels that can be used for the measurement. The height of the narrow portion of
the vessel may also be long enough to accommodate the worst-case scenario of 80% hematocrit
while still leaving a small portion of plasma at the top of the column to allow for efficient
extraction. Thus, 40uL*80% = 32uL may be the required volume capacity for accurate
measurement of the hematocrit. The volume of the narrow portion of the tip as designed may be
about 35.3uL which may allow for some volume of plasma to remain, even in the worst case.
     [0063]      A second usage scenario is much more involved, and may require one, more, or
all of the following:
     [0064]      *      whole blood pelleted
     [0065]      *      plasma extracted
     [0066]      *      pellet re-suspended in lysing buffer and stain
     [0067]      *      remaining white blood cells (WBCs) pelleted
     [0068]      *      supernatant removed
     [0069]      *      WBCs re-suspended
     [0070]      *      WBC suspension fully extracted
     [0071]      In order to fully re-suspend a packed pellet, experiments have shown one can
physically disturb the pellet with a tip capable of completely reaching the bottom of the vessel
containing the pellet. A preferable geometry of the bottom of the vessel using for re-suspension
seems to be a hemispherical shape similar to standard commercial PCR tubes. In other
embodiments, other vessel bottom shapes may be used. The centrifugation vessel, along with the
extraction tip, may be designed to facilitate the re-suspension process by adhering to these
geometrical requirements while also allowing the extraction tip to physically contact the bottom.

                                                 13
    [0072]       During manual re-suspension experiments it was noticed that physical contact
between the bottom of the vessel, and the bottom of the tip may create a seal that prohibits fluid
movement. A delicate spacing may be used in order to both fully disturb the pellet, while
allowing fluid flow. In order to facilitate this process in a robotic system, a physical feature may
be added to the bottom of the centrifugation vessel. In some embodiments, this feature may
comprise four small hemispherical nubs placed around the perimeter of the bottom portion of the
vessel. When the extraction tip is fully inserted into the vessel and allowed to make physical
contact, the end of the tip may rest on the nubs, and fluid is allowed to freely flow between the
nubs. This may result in a small amount of volume (~0.25uL) lost in the gaps.
    [0073]       During the lysing process, in some implementations, the maximum expected fluid
volume is 60uL, which, along with 25uL displaced by the extraction tip may demand a total
volume capacity of 85uL. A design with a current maximum volume of 1OOuL may exceed this
requirement. Other aspects of the second usage scenario require similar or already discussed tip
characteristics.
    [0074]       The upper geometry of the centrifugation vessel may be designed to mate with a
pipette nozzle. Any pipette nozzle described elsewhere herein or known in the art may be used.
The external geometry of the upper portion of the vessel may exactly match that of a reaction tip
which both the current nozzle and cartridge may be designed around. In some embodiments, a
small ridge may circumscribe the internal surface of the upper portion. This ridge may be a
visual marker of the maximum fluid height, meant to facilitate automatic error detection using
computer vision system.
    [0075]       In some embodiments, the distance from the bottom of the fully mated nozzle to
the top of the maximum fluid line is 2.5mm. This distance is 1.5mm less than the 4mm
recommended distance adhered to by the extraction tip. This decreased distance may be driven
by the need to minimize the length of the extraction tip while adhering to minimum volume
requirements. The justification for this decreased distance stems from the particular use of the
vessel. Because, in some implementations, fluid may be exchanged with the vessel from the top
only, the maximum fluid it will ever have while mated with the nozzle is the maximum amount
of whole blood expected at any given time (40uL). The height of this fluid may be well below
the bottom of the nozzle. Another concern is that at other times the volume of fluid in the vessel
may be much greater than this and wet the walls of up to the height of the nozzle. In some
embodiments, it will be up to those using the vessel to ensure that the meniscus of any fluids
contained within the vessel do not exceed the max fluid height, even if the total volume is less

                                                  14
than the maximum specified. In other embodiments, other features may be provided to keep the
fluid contained within the vessel.
     [0076]      Any dimensions, sizes, volumes, or distances provided herein are provided by
way of example only. Any other dimension, size, volume or distance may be utilized which may
or may not be proportional to the amounts mentioned herein.
     [0077]      The centrifugation vessel can be subjected to a number of forces during the
process of exchanging fluids and rapidly inserting and removing tips. If the vessel is not
constrained, it is possible that these forces will be strong enough to lift or otherwise dislodge the
vessel from the centrifuge bucket. In order to prevent movement, the vessel should be secured in
some way. To accomplish this, a small ring circumscribing the bottom exterior of the vessel was
added. This ring can easily be mated with a compliant mechanical feature on the bucket. As
long as the retaining force of the nub is greater than the forces experienced during fluid
manipulations, but less than the friction force when mated with the nozzle then the problem is
solved.
Extraction Tip
     [0078]      The Extraction Tip may be designed to interface with the centrifugation vessel,
efficiently extracting plasma, and re-suspending pelleted cells. Where desired, its total length
(e.g., 34.5 mm) may exactly match that of another blood tip including but not limited to those
described in US. Serial No. 12/244,723 (incorporated herein by reference) but may be long
enough to physically touch the bottom of the centrifugation vessel. The ability to touch the
bottom of the vessel may be required in some embodiments, both for the re-suspension process,
and for complete recovery of the white cell suspension.
     [0079]      The required volume of the extraction tip may be determined by the maximum
volume it is expected to aspirate from the centrifugation vessel at any given time. In some
embodiments, this volume may be approximately 60uL, which may be less than the maximum
capacity of the tip which is 85uL. In some embodiments, a tip of greater volume than required
volume may be provided. As with the centrifugation vessel, an internal feature circumscribing
the interior of the upper portion of the tip may be used to mark the height of this maximum
volume. The distance between the maximum volume line and the top of the mated nozzle may
be 4.5mm, which may be considered a safe distance to prevent nozzle contamination. Any
sufficient distance to prevent nozzle contamination may be used.

                                                 15
     [0080]      The centrifuge may be used to sediment precipitated LDL-cholesterol. Imaging
may be used to verify that the supernatant is clear, indicating complete removal of the
precipitate.
     [0081]      In one example, plasma may be diluted (e.g., 1:10) into a mixture of dextran
sulfate (25mg/dL) and magnesium sulfate (100mM), and may be then incubated for 1 minute to
precipitate LDL-cholesterol. The reaction product may be aspirated into the tube of the
centrifuge, capped then and spun at 3000 rpm for three minutes. Figures 119, 120, and 121 are
images that were taken of the original reaction mixture prior to centrifugation (showing the white
precipitate), following centrifugation (showing a clear supernatant) and of the LDL-cholesterol
pellet (after removal of the cap), respectively.
     [0082]      Other examples of centrifuges that can be employed in the present invention are
described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,693,233, 5,578,269, 6,599,476 and U.S. Patent Publication Nos.
2004/0230400, 2009/0305392, and 2010/0047790, which are incorporated by reference in their
entirety for all purposes.
Example protocols
     [0083]      Many variations of protocol may be used for centrifugation and processing. For
example, a typical protocol for use of the centrifuge to process and concentrate white cells for
cytometry may include one or more of the following steps. The steps below may be provided in
varying orders or other steps may be substituted for any of the steps below:
     [0084]       1.    Receive 10 uL blood anti-coagulated with an anti-coagulant (pipette
injects the blood into the bottom of the centrifuge bucket)
     [0085]      2.      Sediment the red and white cells by centrifugation (< 5 min x 10,000 g).
     [0086]      3.     Measure hematocrit by imaging
     [0087]      4.     Remove plasma slowly by aspiration into the pipette (4 uL corresponding
to the worst case scenario [60 % hematocrit]) without disturbing the cell pellet.
     [0088]      5.     Re-suspend the pellet after adding 20 uL of an appropriate cocktail of up
to five fluorescently labeled antibodies dissolved in buffered saline.
     [0089]      6.     Incubate for 15 minutes at 37C.
     [0090]      7.     Prepare lysing/fixative reagent by mixing red cell lysing solution
(ammonium chloride/potassium bicarbonate) with white cell fixative reagent (formaldehyde).
     [0091]      8.     Add 30 uL lysing/fixative reagent (total reaction volume about 60 uL).
     [0092]      9.     Incubate 15 minutes at 37C
     [0093]       10.    Sediment the white cells by centrifugation (10,000 g).

                                               16
     [0094]      11.    Remove the supernatant hemolysate.
     [0095]      12.    Re-suspend the white cells by adding buffer (isotonic buffered saline).
     [0096]      13.    Measure the volume accurately.
     [0097]      14.    Deliver sample to cytometry.
     [0098]     The steps may include receiving a sample. The sample may be a bodily fluid,
such as blood, or any other sample described elsewhere herein. The sample may be a small
volume, such as any of the volume measurements described elsewhere herein. In some
instances, the sample may have an anti-coagulant.
     [0099]     A separation step may occur. For example, a density-based separation may occur.
Such separation may occur via centrifugation, magnetic separation, lysis, or any other separation
technique known in the art. In some embodiments, the sample may be blood, and the red and
white blood cells may be separated.
     [00100]    A measurement may be made. In some instances, the measurement may be made
via imaging, or any other detection mechanism described elsewhere herein. For example, the
hematocrit of a separated blood sample may be made by imaging. Imaging may occur via a
digital camera or any other image capture device described herein.
     [00101]    One or more component of a sample may be removed. For example, if the sample
is separated into solid and liquid components, the liquid component may be moved. The plasma
of a blood sample may be removed. In some instances, the liquid component, such as plasma,
may be removed via a pipette. The liquid component may be removed without disturbing the
solid component. The imaging may aid in the removal of the liquid component, or any other
selected component of the sample. For example, the imaging may be used to determine where
the plasma is located and may aid in the placement of the pipette to remove the plasma.
     [00102]    In some embodiments, a reagent or other material may be added to the sample.
For example, the solid portion of the sample may be resuspended. A material may be added with
a label. One or more incubation step may occur. In some instances, a lysing and/or fixative
reagent may be added. Additional separation and/or resuspending steps may occur. As needed,
dilution and/or concentration steps may occur.
     [00103]    The volume of the sample may be measured. In some instances, the volume of
the sample may be measured in a precise and/or accurate fashion. The volume of the sample
may be measured in a system with a low coefficient of variation, such as coefficient of variation
values described elsewhere herein. In some instances, the volume of the sample may be
measured using imaging. An image of the sample may be captured and the volume of the
sample may be calculated from the image.

                                                17
     [00104]    The sample may be delivered to a desired process. For example, the sample may
be delivered for cytometry.
     [00105]    In another example, a typical protocol that may or may not make use of the
centrifuge for nucleic acid purification may include one or more of the following steps. The
system may enable DNA/RNA extraction to deliver nucleic acid template to exponential
amplification reactions for detection. The process may be designed to extract nucleic acids from
a variety of samples including, but not limited to whole blood, serum, viral transfer medium,
human and animal tissue samples, food samples, and bacterial cultures. The process may be
completely automated and may extract DNA/RNA in a consistent and quantitative manner. The
steps below may be provided in varying orders or other steps may be substituted for any of the
steps below:
     [00106]     1. Sample Lysis. Cells in the sample may be lysed using a chaotropic-salt buffer.
The chaotropic-salt buffer may include one or more of the following: chaotropic salt such as, but
not limited to, 3-6 M guanidine hydrochloride or guanidinium thiocyanate; sodium dodecyl
sulfate (SDS) at a typical concentration of 0. 1-5% v/v; ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA)
at a typical concentration of 1-5mM; lysozyme at a typical concentration of 1 mg/mL;
proteinase-K at a typical concentration of 1 mg/mL; and pH may be set at 7-7.5 using a buffer
such as HEPES. In some embodiments, the sample may be incubated in the buffer at typical
temperature of 20-95 'C for 0-30 minutes. Isopropanol (50%-100% v/v) may be added to the
mixture after lysis.
     [00107]    2. Surface Loading. Lysed sample may be exposed to a functionalized surface
(often in the form of a packed bed of beads) such as, but not limited to, a resin-support packed in
a chromatography style column, magnetic beads mixed with the sample in a batch style manner,
sample pumped through a suspended resin in a fluidized-bed mode, and sample pumped through
a closed channel in a tangential flow manner over the surface. The surface may be functionalized
so as to bind nucleic acids (e.g. DNA, RNA, DNA/RNA hybrid) in the presence of the lysis
buffer. Surface types may include silica, and ion-exchange functional groups such as
diethylaminoethanol (DEAE). The lysed mixture may be exposed to the surface and nucleic
acids bind.
     [00108]    3. Wash. The solid surface is washed with a salt solution such as 0-2 M sodium
chloride and ethanol (20-80% v/v) at pH 7.0 - 7.5. The washing may be done in the same manner
as loading.
     [00109]    4. Elution. Nucleic acids may be eluted from the surface by exposing the surface
to water or buffer at pH 7-9. Elution may be performed in the same manner as loading.

                                                 18
     [00110]    Many variations of these protocols or other protocols may be employed by the
system. Such protocols may be used in combination or in the place of any protocols or methods
described herein.
     [00111]    In some embodiments, it is important to be able to recover the cells packed and
concentrated by centrifugation for cytometry. In some embodiments, this may be achieved by
use of the pipetting device. Liquids (typically isotonic buffered saline, a lysing agent, a mixture
of a lysing agent and a fixative or a cocktail of labeled antibodies in buffer) may be dispensed
into the centrifuge bucket and repeatedly aspirated and re-dispensed. The tip of the pipette may
be forced into the packed cells to facilitate the process. Image analysis aids the process by
objectively verifying that all the cells have been re-suspended.
Use of the pipette and centrifuge to process samples prior to analysis
     [00112]    In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the system may have
pipetting, pick-and-place and centrifugal capabilities. Such capabilities may enable almost any
type of sample pretreatment and complex assay procedures to be performed efficiently with very
small volumes of sample.
     [00113]     Specifically, the system may enable separation of formed elements (red and white
cells) from plasma. The system may also enable re-suspension of formed elements. In some
embodiments, the system may enable concentration of white cells from fixed and hemolysed
blood. The system may also enable lysis of cells to release nucleic acids. In some embodiments,
purification and concentration of nucleic acids by filtration through tips packed with (typically
beaded) solid phase reagents (e.g. silica) may be enabled by the system. The system may also
permit elution of purified nucleic acids following solid phase extraction. Removal and collection
of precipitates (for example LDL-cholesterol precipitated using polyethylene glycol) may also be
enabled by the system.
     [00114]    In some embodiments, the system may enable affinity purification. Small
molecules such as vitamin-D and serotonin may be adsorbed onto beaded (particulate)
hydrophobic substrates, then eluted using organic solvents. Antigens may be provided onto
antibody-coated substrates and eluted with acid. The same methods can be used to concentrate
analytes found at low concentrations such as thromboxane-B2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F la.
Antigens may be provided onto antibody or aptamer-coated substrates and then eluted.
     [00115]    In some embodiments, the system may enable chemical modification of analytes
prior to assay. To assay serotonin (5-Hydroxytryptamine) for example, it may be required to
convert the analyte to a derivative (such as an acetylated form) using a reagent (such as acetic

                                                19
anhydride). This may be done to produce a form of the analyte that can be recognized by an
antibody.
     [00116]    Liquids can be moved using the pipette (vacuum aspiration and pumping). The
pipette may be limited to relatively low positive and negative pressures (approximately 0.1 - 2.0
atmospheres). A centrifuge can be used to generate much higher pressures when needed to force
liquids through beaded solid phase media. For example, using a rotor with a radius of 5 cm at a
speed of 10,000 rpm, forces of about 5,000 x g (about 7 atmospheres) may be generated,
sufficient to force liquids through resistive media such as packed beds. Any of the centrifuge
designs and configurations discussed elsewhere herein or known in the art may be used.
     [00117]    Measurement of hematocrit with very small volumes of blood may occur. For
example, inexpensive digital cameras are capable of making good images of small objects even
when the contrast is poor. Making use of this capability, the system of the present invention may
enable automated measurement of hematocrit with a very small volume of blood.
     [00118]    For example, 1 uL of blood may be drawn into a microcap glass capillary. The
capillary may then be sealed with a curable adhesive and then subject to centrifugation at 10,000
x g for 5 minutes. The packed cell volume may be easily measured and the plasma meniscus
(indicated by an arrow) may also be visible so hematocrit can be accurately measured. This may
enable the system to not waste a relatively large volume of blood to make this measurement. In
some embodiments, the camera may be used "as is" without operation with a microscope to
make a larger image. In other embodiments, a microscope or other optical techniques may be
used to magnify the image. In one implementation, the hematocrit was determined using the
digital camera without additional optical interference, and the hematocrit measured was identical
to that determined by a conventional microhematocrit laboratory method requiring many
microliters of sample. In some embodiments, the length of the sample column and of that of the
column of packed red cells can be measured very precisely (+/- < 0.05 mm). Given that the
blood sample column may be about 10 - 20 mm, the standard deviation of hematocrit may be
much better than 1 % matching that obtained by standard laboratory methods.
     [00119]    The system may enable measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR).
The ability of digital cameras to measure very small distances and rates of change of distances
may be exploited to measure ESR. In one example, three blood samples (15 uL) were aspirated
into "reaction tips". Images were captured over one hour at two-minute intervals. Image
analysis was used to measure the movement of the interface between red cells and plasma.
     [00120]    The precision of the measurement may be estimated by fitting the data to a
polynomial function and calculating the standard deviation of the difference between the data

                                                20
and the fitted curve (for all samples). In the example, this was determined to be 0.03 8 mm or < 2
% CV when related to the distance moved over one hour. Accordingly, ESR can be measured
precisely by this method. Another method for determination of ESR is to measure the maximum
slope of the distance versus time relationship.
Centrifuge
     [00121]    Referring now to Figures 9 to 11, still further embodiments of centrifuges will
now be described. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention, a system may include
one or more centrifuges. A device in the system may include one or more centrifuges therein.
For example, one or more centrifuges may be provided within a device housing. A module may
have one or more centrifuges. One, two, or more modules of a device may have a centrifuge
therein. The centrifuge may be supported by a module support structure, or may be contained
within a module housing. The centrifuge may have a form factor that is compact, flat and
occupies only a small footprint. In some embodiments, the centrifuge may be miniaturized for
point-of-service applications but remain capable of rotating at high rates, equal to or exceeding
about 10,000 rpm, and be capable of withstanding g-forces of up to about 1200 m/s 2 or more.
     [00122]    In some embodiments, a centrifuge may be configured to accept one or more
samples. A centrifuge may be used for separating and/or purifying materials of differing
densities. Examples of such materials may include viruses, bacteria, cells, proteins,
environmental compositions, or other compositions. A centrifuge may be used to concentrate
cells and/or particles for subsequent measurement.
     [00123]    In some embodiments, a centrifuge may have one or more cavity that may be
configured to accept a sample. The cavity may be configured to accept the sample directly
within the cavity, so that the sample may contact the cavity wall. Alternatively, the cavity may
be configured to accept a sample vessel that may contain the sample therein. Any description
herein of cavity may be applied to any configuration that may accept and/or contain a sample or
sample container. For example, cavities may include indentations within a material, bucket
formats, protrusions with hollow interiors, members configured to interconnect with a sample
container. Any description of cavity may also include configurations that may or may not have a
concave or interior surface. Examples of sample vessels may include any of the vessel or tip
designs described elsewhere herein. Sample vessels may have an interior surface and an exterior
surface. A sample vessel may have at least one open end configured to accept the sample. The
open end may be closeable or salable.     The sample vessel may have a closed end. The sample

                                                  21
vessel may be a nozzle of the fluid handling apparatus, which apparatus may act as a centrifuge
to spin a fluid in the nozzle, the tip or another vessel attached to such a nozzle.
     [00124]     In some embodiments, the centrifuge may have one or more, two or more, three
or more, four or more, five or more, six or more, eight or more, 10 or more, 12 or more, 15 or
more, 20 or more, 30 or more, or 50 or more cavities configured to accept a sample or sample
vessel.
     [00125]     In some embodiments, the centrifuge may be configured to accept a small volume
of sample. In some embodiments, the cavity and/or sample vessel may be configured to accept a
sample volume of 1,000 pL or less, 500 pL or less, 250 pL or less, 200 PL or less, 175 PL or
less, 150 pL or less, 100 pL or less, 80 pL or less, 70 pL or less, 60 PL or less, 50 PL or less, 30
pL or less, 20 pL or less, 15 pL or less, 10 pL or less, 8 pL or less, 5 pL or less, 1 pL or less,
500 nL or less, 300 nL or less, 100 nL or less, 50 nL or less, 10 nL or less, 1 nL or less, 500 pL
or less, 100 pL or less 50 pL or less, 10 pL or less 5 pL or less, or 1 pL or less.
     [00126]     In some embodiments, the centrifuge may have a cover that may contain the
sample within the centrifuge. The cover may prevent the sample for aerosolizing and/or
evaporating. The centrifuge may optionally have a film, oil (e.g., mineral oil), wax, or gel that
may contain the sample within the centrifuge and/or prevent it from aerosolizing and/or
evaporating. The film, oil, wax, or gel may be provided as a layer over a sample that may be
contained within a cavity and/or sample vessel of the centrifuge.
     [00127]     A centrifuge may be configured to rotate about an axis of rotation. A centrifuge
may be able to spin at any number of rotations per minute. For example, a centrifuge may spin
up to a rate of 100 rpm, 1,000 rpm, 2,000 rpm, 3,000 rpm, 5,000 rpm, 7,000 rpm, 10,000 rpm,
 12,000 rpm, 15,000 rpm, 17,000 rpm, 20,000 rpm, 25,000 rpm, 30,000 rpm, 40,000 rpm, 50,000
rpm, 70,000 rpm, or 100,000 rpm. At some points in time, a centrifuge may remain at rest, while
at other points in time, the centrifuge may rotate. A centrifuge at rest is not rotating. A
centrifuge may be configured to rotate at variable rates. In some embodiments, the centrifuge
may be controlled to rotate at a desirable rate. In some embodiments, the rate of change of
rotation speed may be variable and/or controllable.
     [00128]     In some embodiments, the axis of rotation may be vertical. Alternatively, the axis
of rotation may be horizontal, or may have any angle between vertical and horizontal (e.g., about
 15, 30, 45, 60, or 75 degrees). In some embodiments, the axis of rotation may be in a fixed
direction. Alternatively, the axis of rotation may vary during the use of a device. The axis of
rotation angle may or may not vary while the centrifuge is rotating.

                                                 22
     [00129]    In some embodiments, a centrifuge may comprise a base. In some embodiments,
the base comprises the centrifuge rotor. The base may have a top surface and a bottom surface.
The base may be configured to rotate about the axis of rotation. The axis of rotation may be
orthogonal to the top and/or bottom surface of the base. In some embodiments, the top and/or
bottom surface of the base may be flat or curved. The top and bottom surface may or may not be
substantially parallel to one another.
     [00130]    In some embodiments, the base may have a circular shape. The base may have
any other shape including, but not limited to, an elliptical shape, triangular shape, quadrilateral
shape, pentagonal shape, hexagonal shape, or octagonal shape.
     [00131]    The base may have a height and one or more lateral dimension (e.g., diameter,
width, or length). The height of the base may be parallel to the axis of rotation. The lateral
dimension may be perpendicular to the axis of rotation. The lateral dimension of the base may
be greater than the height. The lateral dimension of the base may be 2 times or more, 3 times or
more, 4 times or more, 5 times or more, 6 times or more, 8 times or more, 10 times or more, 15
times or more, or 20 times or more greater than the height.
     [00132]    The centrifuge may have any size. For example, the centrifuge may have a
footprint of about 200 cm2 or less, 150 cm2 or less, 100 cm2 or less, 90 cm2 or less, 80 cm2 or
             2               2               2              2               2
less, 70 cm or less, 60 cm or less, 50 cm or less, 40 cm or less, 30 cm or less, 20 cm 2 or less,
 10 cm2 or less, 5 cm2 or less, or 1 cm2 or less. The centrifuge may have a height of about 5 cm
or less, 4 cm or less, 3 cm or less, 2.5 cm or less, 2 cm or less, 1.75 cm or less, 1.5 cm or less, 1
cm or less, 0.75 cm or less, 0.5 cm or less, or 0.1 cm or less. In some embodiments, the greatest
dimension of the centrifuge may be about 15 cm or less, 10 cm or less, 9 cm or less, 8 cm or less,
7 cm or less, 6 cm or less, 5 cm or less, 4 cm or less, 3 cm or less, 2 cm or less, or 1 cm or less.
     [00133]    The centrifuge base may be configured to accept a drive mechanism. A drive
mechanism may be a motor, or any other mechanism that may enable the centrifuge to rotate
about an axis of rotation. The drive mechanism may be a brushless motor, which may include a
brushless motor rotor and a brushless motor stator. The brushless motor may be an induction
motor. The brushless motor rotor may surround the brushless motor stator. The rotor may be
configured to rotate about a stator about an axis of rotation.
     [00134]    The base may be connected to or may incorporate the brushless motor rotor,
which may cause the base to rotate about the stator. The base may be affixed to the rotor or may
be integrally formed with the rotor. The base may rotate about the stator and a plane orthogonal
to the axis of rotation of the motor may be coplanar with a plane orthogonal to the axis of
rotation of the base. For example, the base may have a plane orthogonal to the base axis of

                                                23
rotation that passes substantially between the upper and lower surface of the base. The motor
may have a plane orthogonal to the motor axis of rotation that passes substantially through the
center of the motor. The base planes and motor planes may be substantially coplanar. The
motor plane may pass between the upper and lower surface of the base.
     [00135]    A brushless motor assembly may include the motor rotor and stator. The motor
assembly may include the electronic components. The integration of a brushless motor into the
motor rotor assembly may reduce the overall size of the centrifuge assembly. In some
embodiments, the motor assembly does not extend beyond the base height. In other
embodiments, the height of the motor assembly is no greater than 1.5 times the height of the
base, than twice the height of the base, than 2.5 times the height of the base, than three times the
height of the base, than four times the height of the base, or five times the height of the base.
The motor rotor may be surrounded by the base such that the motor rotor is not exposed outside
the base.
     [00136]    The motor assembly may affect the rotation of the centrifuge without requiring a
spindle/shaft assembly. The rotor may surround the stator which may be electrically connected
to a controller and/or power source.
     [00137]    In some embodiments, the cavity may be configured to have a first orientation
when the base is at rest, and a second orientation when the base is rotating. The first orientation
may be a vertical orientation and a second orientation may be a horizontal orientation. The
cavity may have any orientation, where the cavity may be more than and/or equal to about 0
degrees, 5 degrees, 10 degrees, 15 degrees, 20 degrees, 25 degrees, 30 degrees, 35 degrees, 40
degrees, 45 degrees, 50 degrees, 55 degrees, 60 degrees, 65 degrees, 70 degrees, 75 degrees, 80
degrees, 85 degrees, or 90 degrees from vertical and/or the axis of rotation. In some
embodiments, the first orientation may be closer to vertical than the second orientation. The first
orientation may be closer to parallel to the axis of rotation than the second orientation.
Alternatively, the cavity may have the same orientation regardless of whether the base is at rest
or rotating. The orientation of the cavity may or may not depend on the speed at which the base
is rotating.
     [00138]    The centrifuge may be configured to accept a sample vessel, and may be
configured to have the sample vessel at a first orientation when the base is at rest, and have the
sample vessel at a second orientation when the base is rotating. The first orientation may be a
vertical orientation and a second orientation may be a horizontal orientation. The sample vessel
may have any orientation, where the sample vessel may be more than and/or equal to about 0
degrees, 5 degrees, 10 degrees, 15 degrees, 20 degrees, 25 degrees, 30 degrees, 35 degrees, 40

                                                   24
degrees, 45 degrees, 50 degrees, 55 degrees, 60 degrees, 65 degrees, 70 degrees, 75 degrees, 80
degrees, 85 degrees, or 90 degrees from vertical. In some embodiments, the first orientation may
be closer to vertical than the second orientation. Alternatively, the sample vessel may have the
same orientation regardless of whether the base is at rest or rotating. The orientation of the
vessel may or may not depend on the speed at which the base is rotating.
     [00139]    Figure 9 shows one non-limiting example of a centrifuge provided in accordance
with an embodiment of the invention. The centrifuge may include a base 3600 having a bottom
surface 3602 and/or top surface 3604. The base may comprise one, two or more wings 3610a,
3610b.
     [00140]    A wing may be configured to fold over an axis extending through the base. In
some embodiments, the axis may form a secant through the base. An axis extending through the
base may be a foldover axis, which may be formed by one or more pivot point 3620. A wing
may comprise an entire portion of a base on a side of an axis. An entire portion of the base may
fold over, thereby forming the wing. In some embodiments, a central portion 3606 of the base
may intersect the axis of rotation while the wing does not. The central portion of the base may
be closer to the axis of rotation than the wing. The central portion of the base may be configured
to accept a drive mechanism 3630. The drive mechanism may be a motor, or any other
mechanism that may cause the base to rotate, and may be discussed in further detail elsewhere
herein. In some embodiments, a wing may have a footprint of about 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%,
25%, 3 0%,   3
               5%, or 4 0% of the base footprint or greater.
     [00141]    In some embodiments, a plurality of foldover axes may be provided through the
base. The foldover axes may be parallel to one another. Alternatively, some foldover axes may
be orthogonal to one another or at any other angle relative to one another. A foldover axis may
extend through a lower surface of the base, an upper surface of the base, or between the lower
and upper surface of the base. In some embodiments, the foldover axis may extend through the
base closer to the lower surface of the base, or closer to the upper surface of the base. In some
embodiments, a pivot point may be at or closer to a lower surface of the base or an upper surface
of the base.
     [00142]     One, two, three, four, five, six, or more cavities may be provided in a wing. For
example, a wing may be configured to accept one, two, or more samples or sample vessels. Each
wing may be capable of accepting the same number of vessels or different numbers of vessels.
The wing may comprise a cavity configured to receive a sample vessel, wherein the sample
vessel is oriented in a first orientation when the base is at rest and is configured to be oriented at
a second orientation when the base is rotating.

                                               25
     [00143]    In some embodiments, the wing may be configured to be at angle relative to the
central portion of the base. For example, the wing may be between 90 and 180 degrees of the
central portion of the base. For example, the wing may be vertically oriented when the base is at
rest. The wing may be 90 degrees from the central portion of the base when vertically oriented.
The wing may be horizontally oriented when the base is rotating. The wing may be 180 degrees
from the central portion of the base when horizontally oriented. The wing may extend from the
base to form a substantially uninterrupted surface when the base is rotating. For example, the
wing may be extended to form a substantially continuous surface of the bottom and/or top
surface of the base when the base is rotating. The wing may be configured to fold downward
relative to the central portion of the base.
     [00144]    A pivot point for a wing may include one or more pivot pin 3622. A pivot pin
may extend through a portion of the wing and a portion of the central portion of the base. In
some embodiments, the wing and central portion of the base may have interlocking features
3624, 3626 that may prevent the wing from sliding laterally with respect to the central portion of
the base.
     [00145]    A wing may have a center of gravity 3680 that is positioned lower than the
foldover axis and/or pivot point 3620. The center of gravity of the wing may be positioned
lower than the axis extending through the base when the base is at rest. The center of gravity of
the wing may be positioned lower than the axis extending through the base when the base is
rotating.
     [00146]    The wing may be formed of two or more different materials having different
densities. Alternatively, the wing may be formed of a single material. In one example, the wing
may have a lightweight wing cap 3640 and a heavy wing base 3645. In some embodiments, the
wing cap may be formed of a material with a lower density than the wing base. For example, the
wing cap may be formed of plastic while the wing base is formed of a metal, such as steel,
tungsten, aluminum, copper, brass, iron, gold, silver, titanium, or any combination or alloy
thereof. A heavier wing base may assist with providing a wing center of mass below a foldover
axis and/or pivot point.
     [00147]    The wing cap and wing base may be connected through any mechanisms known
in the art. For example, fasteners 3650 may be provided, or adhesives, welding, interlocking
features, clamps, hook and loop fasteners, or any other mechanism may be employed. The wing
may optionally include inserts 3655. The inserts may be formed of a heavier material than the
wing cap. The inserts may assist with providing a wing center of mass below a foldover axis
and/or pivot point.

                                                 26
     [00148]     One or more cavity 3670 may be provided within the wing cap or the wing base,
or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, a cavity may be configured to accept a
plurality of sample vessel configurations. The cavity may have an internal surface. At least a
portion of the internal surface may contact a sample vessel. In one example, the cavity may
have one or more shelf or internal surface features that may permit a first sample vessel having a
first configuration to fit within the cavity and a second sample vessel having a second
configuration to fit within the cavity. The first and second sample vessels having different
configurations may contact different portions of the internal surface of the cavity.
     [00149]    The centrifuge may be configured to engage with a fluid handling device. For
example, the centrifuge may be configured to connect to a pipette or other fluid handling device.
In some embodiments, a water-tight seal may be formed between the centrifuge and the fluid
handling device. The centrifuge may engage with the fluid handling device and be configured to
receive a sample dispensed from the fluid handling device. The centrifuge may engage with the
fluid handling device and be configured to receive a sample vessel from the fluid handling
device. The centrifuge may engage with the fluid handling device and permit the fluid handling
device to pick-up or aspirate a sample from the centrifuge. The centrifuge may engage with the
fluid handling device and permit the fluid handling device to pick-up a sample vessel.
     [00150]    A sample vessel may be configured to engage with the fluid handling device. For
example, the sample vessel may be configured to connect to a pipette or other fluid handling
device. In some embodiments, a water-tight seal may be formed between the sample vessel and
the fluid handling device. The sample vessel may engage with the fluid handling device and be
configured to receive a sample dispensed from the fluid handling device. The sample vessel may
engage with the fluid handling device and permit the fluid handling device to pick-up or aspirate
a sample from the sample vessel.
     [00151]    A sample vessel may be configured to extend out of a centrifuge wing. In some
embodiments, the centrifuge base may be configured to permit the sample vessel to extend out of
the centrifuge wing when the wing is folded over, and permit the wing to pivot between a folded
and extended state.
     [00152]    Figure 10 shows one non-limiting example of a centrifuge provided in accordance
with another embodiment of the invention. The centrifuge may include a base 3700 having a
bottom surface 3702 and/or top surface 3704. The base may comprise one, two or more buckets
3710a, 3710b.
     [00153]    A bucket may be configured to pivot about a bucket pivot axis extending through
the base. In some embodiments, the axis may form a secant through the base. The bucket may

                                                 27
be configured to pivot about a point of rotation 3720. The base may be configured to accept a
drive mechanism. In one example, the drive mechanism may be a motor, such as a brushless
motor. The drive mechanism may include a rotor 3730 and a stator 3735. The rotor may
optionally be a brushless motor rotor, and the stator may optionally be a brushless motor stator.
The drive mechanism may be any other mechanism that may cause the base to rotate, and may
be discussed in further detail elsewhere herein.
     [00154]    In some embodiments, a plurality of axes of rotation for the buckets may be
provided through the base. The axes may be parallel to one another. Alternatively, some axes
may be orthogonal to one another or at any other angle relative to one another. A bucket axis of
rotation may extend through a lower surface of the base, an upper surface of the base, or between
the lower and upper surface of the base. In some embodiments, the bucket axis of rotation may
extend through the base closer to the lower surface of the base, or closer to the upper surface of
the base. In some embodiments, a point of rotation may be at or closer to a lower surface of the
base or an upper surface of the base.
     [00155]    One, two, three, four, or more cavities may be provided in a bucket. For example,
a bucket may be configured to accept one, two, or more samples or sample vessels 3740. Each
bucket may be capable of accepting the same number of vessels or different numbers of vessels.
The bucket may comprise a cavity configured to receive a sample vessel, wherein the sample
vessel is oriented in a first orientation when the base is at rest and is configured to be oriented at
a second orientation when the base is rotating.
     [00156]    In some embodiments, the bucket may be configured to be at angle relative to the
base. For example, the bucket may be between 0 and 90 degrees of the base. For example, the
bucket may be vertically oriented when the base is at rest. The bucket may be positioned
upwards past the top surface of the centrifuge base when the base is at rest. At least a portion of
the sample vessel may extend beyond the top surface of the base when the base is at rest. The
wing may be 90 degrees from the central portion of the base when vertically oriented. The
bucket may be horizontally oriented when the base is rotating. The bucket may be 0 degrees
from the base when horizontally oriented. The bucket may be retracted into the base to form a
substantially uninterrupted top and/or bottom surface when the base is rotating. For example, the
bucket may be retracted to form a substantially continuous surface of the bottom and/or top
surface of the base when the base is rotating. The bucket may be configured to pivot upwards
relative the base. The bucket may be configured so that at least a portion of the bucket may
pivot upwards past the top surface of the base.

                                                 28
     [00157]    A point of rotation for a bucket may include one or more pivot pin. A pivot pin
may extend through the bucket and the base. In some embodiments, the bucket may be
positioned between portions of the base that may prevent the bucket from sliding laterally with
respect to the base.
     [00158]    A bucket may have a center of mass 3750 that is positioned lower than the point
of rotation 3720. The center of mass of the bucket may be positioned lower than the point of
rotation when the base is at rest. The center of mass of the bucket may be positioned lower than
the point of rotation when the base is rotating.
     [00159]    The bucket may be formed of two or more different materials having different
densities. Alternatively, the bucket may be formed of a single material. In one example, the
bucket may have a main body 3715 and an in insert 3717. In some embodiments, the main body
may be formed of a material with a lower density than the insert. For example, the main body
may be formed of plastic while the insert is formed of a metal, such as tungsten, steel, aluminum,
copper, brass, iron, gold, silver, titanium, or any combination or alloy thereof. A heavier insert
may assist with providing a bucket center of mass below a point of rotation. The bucket
materials may include a higher density material and a lower density material, wherein the higher
density material is positioned lower than the point of rotation. The center of mass of the bucket
may be located such that the bucket naturally swings with an open end upwards, and heavier end
downwards when the centrifuge is at rest. The center of mass of the bucket may be located so
that the bucket naturally retracts when the centrifuge is rotated at a certain speed. The bucket
may retract when the speed is at a predetermined speed, which may include any speed, or any
speed mentioned elsewhere.
     [00160]     One or more cavities may be provided within the bucket. In some embodiments,
a cavity may be configured to accept a plurality of sample vessel configurations. The cavity may
have an internal surface. At least a portion of the internal surface may contact a sample vessel.
In one example, the cavity may have one or more shelf or internal surface features that may
permit a first sample vessel having a first configuration to fit within the cavity and a second
sample vessel having a second configuration to fit within the cavity. The first and second sample
vessels having different configurations may contact different portions of the internal surface of
the cavity. Although the embodiments in Figures 9-11 show centrifuge vessels with high aspect
ratio in terms of height to width, it should be understood that embodiments with heights equal to
or less than the width may also be used in alternative embodiments.
     [00161]    As previously described, the centrifuge may be configured to engage with a fluid
handling device. For example, the centrifuge may be configured to connect to a pipette or other

                                               29
fluid handling device. The centrifuge may be configured to accept a sample dispensed by the
fluid handling device or to provide a sample to be aspirated by the fluid handling device. A
centrifuge may be configured to accept or provide a sample vessel.
     [00162]    A sample vessel may be configured to engage with the fluid handling device, as
previously mentioned. For example, the sample vessel may be configured to connect to a pipette
or other fluid handling device.
     [00163]    A sample vessel may be configured to extend out of a bucket. In some
embodiments, the centrifuge base may be configured to permit the sample vessel to extend out of
the bucket when the bucket is provided in a retracted state, and permit the bucket to pivot
between a retracted and protruding state. The sample vessel extending out of the top surface of
the centrifuge may permit easier sample or sample vessel transfer to and/or from the centrifuge.
In some embodiments, the buckets may be configured to retract into the rotor, creating a compact
assembly and reducing drag during operation, with additional benefits such as reduced noise and
heat generation, and lower power requirements.
     [00164]    In some embodiments, the centrifuge base may include one or more channels, or
other similar structures, such as grooves, conduits, or passageways. Any description of channels
may also apply to any of the similar structures. The channels may contain one or more ball
bearing. The ball bearings may slide through the channels. The channels may be open, closed,
or partially open. The channels may be configured to prevent the ball bearings from falling out
of the channel.
     [00165]    In some embodiments, ball bearings may be placed within the rotor in a
sealed/closed track. This configuration is useful for dynamically balancing the centrifuge rotor,
especially when centrifuging samples of different volumes at the same time. In some
embodiments, the ball bearings may be external to the motor, making the overall system more
robust and compact.
     [00166]    The channels may encircle the centrifuge base. In some embodiments, the
channel may encircle the base along the perimeter of the centrifuge base. In some embodiments,
the channel may be at or closer to an upper surface of the centrifuge base, or the lower surface of
the centrifuge base. In some instances, the channel may be equidistant to the upper and lower
surface of the centrifuge base. The ball bearings may slide along the perimeter of the centrifuge
base. In some embodiments, the channel may encircle the base at some distance away from the
axis rotation. The channel may form a circle with the axis of rotation at the substantial center of
the circle.

                                                 30
    [00167]     Figure 11 shows an additional, non-limiting example of a centrifuge provided in
accordance with another embodiment of the invention. The centrifuge may include a base 3800
having a bottom surface 3802 and/or top surface 3804. The base may comprise one, two or more
buckets 3810a, 3810b. A bucket may be connected to a module frame 3820 which may be
connected to the base. Alternatively, the bucket may directly connect to the base. The bucket
may also be attached to a weight 3830.
    [00168]     A module frame may be connected to a base. The module frame may connect to
the base at a boundary that may form a continuous or substantially continuous surface with the
base. A portion of the top, bottom and/or side surface of the base may form a continuous or
substantially continuous surface with the module frame.
    [00169]     A bucket may be configured to pivot about a bucket pivot axis extending through
the base and/or module frame. In some embodiments, the axis may form a secant through the
base. The bucket may be configured to pivot about a bucket pivot 3840. The base may be
configured to accept a drive mechanism. In one example, the drive mechanism may be a motor,
such as a brushless motor. The drive mechanism may include a rotor 3850 and a stator 3855. In
some embodiments, the rotor may be a brushless motor rotor, and the stator may be a brushless
motor stator. The drive mechanism may be any other mechanism that may cause the base to
rotate, and may be discussed in further detail elsewhere herein.
    [00170]     In some embodiments, a plurality of axes of rotation for the buckets may be
provided through the base. The axes may be parallel to one another. Alternatively, some axes
may be orthogonal to one another or at any other angle relative to one another. A bucket axis of
rotation may extend through a lower surface of the base, an upper surface of the base, or between
the lower and upper surface of the base. In some embodiments, the bucket axis of rotation may
extend through the base closer to the lower surface of the base, or closer to the upper surface of
the base. In some embodiments, a bucket pivot may be at or closer to a lower surface of the base
or an upper surface of the base. A bucket pivot may be at or closer to a lower surface of the
module frame or an upper surface of the module frame.
    [00171]      One, two, three, four, or more cavities may be provided in a bucket. For example,
a bucket may be configured to accept one, two, or more samples or sample vessels. Each bucket
may be capable of accepting the same number of vessels or different numbers of vessels. The
bucket may comprise a cavity configured to receive a sample vessel, wherein the sample vessel
is oriented in a first orientation when the base is at rest and is configured to be oriented at a
second orientation when the base is rotating.

                                                31
    [00172]      In some embodiments, the bucket may be configured to be at an angle relative to
the base. For example, the bucket may be between 0 and 90 degrees of the base. For example,
the bucket may be vertically oriented when the base is at rest. The bucket may be positioned
upwards past the top surface of the centrifuge base when the base is at rest. At least a portion of
the sample vessel may extend beyond the top surface of the base when the base is at rest. The
wing may be 90 degrees from the central portion of the base when vertically oriented. The
bucket may be horizontally oriented when the base is rotating. The bucket may be 0 degrees
from the base when horizontally oriented. The bucket may be retracted into the base and/or
frame module to form a substantially uninterrupted top and/or bottom surface when the base is
rotating. For example, the bucket may be retracted to form a substantially continuous surface
with the bottom and/or top surface of the base and/or frame module when the base is rotating.
The bucket may be configured to pivot upwards relative the base and/or frame module. The
bucket may be configured so that at least a portion of the bucket may pivot upwards past the top
surface of the base and/or frame module.
    [00173]      The bucket may be locked in multiple positions to enable drop-off and pickup of
centrifuge tubes, as well as aspiration and dispensing of liquid into and out of a centrifuge vessel
when in the centrifuge bucket. One technique to accomplish this is one or more motors that
drive wheels that make contact with the centrifuge rotor to finely position and/or lock the rotor.
Another approach may be to use a CAM shape formed on the rotor, without additional motors or
wheels. An appendage from the pipette, such as a centrifuge tip attached to a pipette nozzle,
may be pressed down onto the CAM shape on the rotor. This force on the CAM surface may
induce the rotor to rotate to the desired locking position. The continued application of this force
may enable the rotor to be rigidly held in the desired position. Multiple such CAM shapes may
be added to the rotor to enable multiple locking positions. While the rotor is held by one pipette
nozzle/tip, another pipette nozzle/tip may interface with the centrifuge buckets to drop off or
pick up centrifuge vessels or perform other functions, such as aspirating or dispensing from the
centrifuge vessels in the centrifuge bucket. It should be understood that this CAM feature can be
adapted for use with any of the embodiments mentioned in this disclosure.
    [00174]      A bucket pivot may include one or more pivot pin. A pivot pin may extend
through the bucket and the base and/or frame module. In some embodiments, the bucket may be
positioned between portions of the base and/or frame module that may prevent the bucket from
sliding laterally with respect to the base.
    [00175]      The bucket may be attached to a weight. The weight may be configured to move
when the base starts rotating, thereby causing the bucket to pivot, typically from a fully vertical

                                                32
position to a non-vertical position for use during centrifugation. The weight may be caused to
move by a centrifugal force exerted on the weight when the base starts rotating. The weight may
be configured to move away from an axis of rotation when the base starts rotating at a threshold
speed. In some embodiments, the weight may move in a linear direction or path. Alternatively,
the weight may move along a curved path or any other path. The bucket may be attached to a
weight at a weight pivot point 3860. One or more pivot pin or protrusion may be used that may
allow the bucket to rotate with respect to the weight. In some embodiments, the weight may
move along a horizontal linear path, thereby causing the bucket to pivot upward or downward.
The weight may move in a linear direction orthogonal to the axis of rotation of the centrifuge.
This shows that bucket does not extend outward below a bottom surface of the centrifuge rotor.
In some embodiment, this enables a centrifuge design with a reduced overall height when the
device is in operation.
     [00176]     It should also be understood that the force required to move the bucket from an a
resting configuration to an operational configuration is selected so that there is sufficient
centrifugal force such that any sample within a centrifugation vessel is not spilled or expelled
outward from the vessel as the bucket changes orientation. Often, the centrifugation vessel may
be an open top vessel that is not sealed and thus cannot contain a spill from a vessel oriented in
the wrong direction.
     [00177]     The weight may be located between portions of a module frame and/or a base.
The module frame and/or base may be configured to prevent the weight from sliding out of the
base. The module and/or base may restrict the path of the weight. The path of the weight may
be restricted to a linear direction. One or more guide pins 3870 may be provided that may
restrict the path of the weight. In some embodiments, the guide pins may pass through the frame
module and/or base and the weight.
     [00178]     A biasing force may be provided to the weight. The biasing force may be
provided by a spring 3880, elastic, pneumatic mechanism, hydraulic mechanism, or any other
mechanism. The biasing force may keep the weight at a first position when the base is at rest,
while the centrifugal force from the rotation of the centrifuge may cause the weight to move to a
second position when the centrifuge is rotating at a threshold speed. When the centrifuge goes
back to rest or the speed falls below a predetermined rotation speed, the weight may return to the
first position. The bucket may have a first orientation when the weight is at the first position,
and the bucket may have a second orientation when the weight is at the second position. For
example, the bucket may have a vertical orientation when the weight is in the first position and
the bucket may have a horizontal orientation when the weight is in the second position. The first

                                                33
position of the weight may be closer to the axis of rotation than the second position of the
weight.
     [00179]     One or more cavity may be provided within the bucket. In some embodiments, a
cavity may be configured to accept a plurality of sample vessel configurations. The cavity may
have an internal surface. At least a portion of the internal surface may contact a sample vessel.
In one example, the cavity may have one or more shelf or internal surface features that may
permit a first sample vessel having a first configuration to fit within the cavity and a second
sample vessel having a second configuration to fit within the cavity. The first and second sample
vessels having different configurations may contact different portions of the internal surface of
the cavity.
     [00180]    As previously described, the centrifuge may be configured to engage with a fluid
handling device. For example, the centrifuge may be configured to connect to a pipette or other
fluid handling device. The centrifuge may be configured to accept a sample dispensed by the
fluid handling device or to provide a sample to be aspirated by the fluid handling device. A
centrifuge may be configured to accept or provide a sample vessel.
     [00181]    A sample vessel may be configured to engage with the fluid handling device, as
previously mentioned. For example, the sample vessel may be configured to connect to a pipette
or other fluid handling device.
     [00182]    A sample vessel may be configured to extend out of a bucket. In some
embodiments, the centrifuge base and/or module frame may be configured to permit the sample
vessel to extend out of the bucket when the bucket is provided in a retracted state, and permit the
bucket to pivot between a retracted and protruding state. The sample vessel extending out of the
top surface of the centrifuge may permit easier sample or sample vessel transfer to and/or from
the centrifuge.
     [00183]    In some embodiments, the centrifuge base may include one or more channels, or
other similar structures, such as grooves, conduits, or passageways. Any description of channels
may also apply to any of the similar structures. The channels may contain one or more ball
bearing. The ball bearings may slide through the channels. The channels may be open, closed,
or partially open. The channels may be configured to prevent the ball bearings from falling out
of the channel.
     [00184]    The channels may encircle the centrifuge base. In some embodiments, the
channel may encircle the base along the perimeter of the centrifuge base. In some embodiments,
the channel may be at or closer to an upper surface of the centrifuge base, or the lower surface of
the centrifuge base. In some instances, the channel may be equidistant to the upper and lower

                                                34
surface of the centrifuge base. The ball bearings may slide along the perimeter of the centrifuge
base. In some embodiments, the channel may encircle the base at some distance away from the
axis rotation. The channel may form a circle with the axis of rotation at the substantial center of
the circle.
    [00185]      Other examples of centrifuge configurations known in the art, including various
swinging bucket configurations, may be used. See, e.g., US Patent No. 7,422,554 which is
hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. For examples, buckets may
swing down, rather than swinging up. Buckets may swing to protrude to the side rather than up
or down.
    [00186]      The centrifuge may be enclosed within a housing or casing. In some
embodiments, the centrifuge may be completely enclosed within the housing. Alternatively, the
centrifuge may have one or more open sections. The housing may include a movable portion
that may allow a fluid handling or other automated device to access the centrifuge. The fluid
handling and/or other automated device may provide a sample, access a sample, provide a
sample vessel, or access a sample vessel in a centrifuge. Such access may be granted to the top,
side, and/or bottom of the centrifuge.
    [00187]      A sample may be dispensed and/or picked up from the cavity. The sample may
be dispensed and/or picked up using a fluid handling system. The fluid handling system may be
the pipette described elsewhere herein, or any other fluid handling system known in the art. The
sample may be dispensed and/or picked up using a tip, having any of the configurations
described elsewhere herein. The dispensing and/or aspiration of a sample may be automated.
    [00188]      In some embodiments, a sample vessel may be provided to or removed from a
centrifuge. The sample vessel may be inserted or removed from the centrifuge using a device in
an automated process. The sample vessel may extend from the surface of the centrifuge, which
may simplify automated pick up and/or retrieval. A sample may already be provided within the
sample vessel. Alternatively, a sample may be dispensed and/or picked up from the samples
vessel. The sample may be dispensed and/or picked up from the sample vessel using the fluid
handling system.
    [00189]      In some embodiments, a tip from the fluid handling system may be inserted at
least partially into the sample vessel and/or cavity. The tip may be insertable and removable
from the sample vessel and/or cavity. In some embodiments the sample vessel and the tip may
be the centrifugation vessel and centrifugation tip as previously described, or have any other
vessel or tip configuration. In some embodiments, a cuvette can be placed in the centrifuge
rotor. This configuration may offer certain advantages over traditional tips and/or vessels. In

                                                 35
some embodiments, the cuvettes may be patterned with one or more channels with specialized
geometries such that products of the centrifugation process are automatically separated into
separate compartments. One such embodiment might be a cuvette with a tapered channel ending
in a compartment separated by a narrow opening. The supernatant (e.g. plasma from blood) can
be forced into the compartment by centrifugal forces, while the red blood cells remain in the
main channel. The cuvette may be more complicated with several channels and/or
compartments. The channels may be either isolated or connected.
    [00190]     In some embodiments, one or more cameras may be placed in the centrifuge rotor
such that it can image the contents of the centrifuge vessel while the rotor is spinning. The
camera images may be analyzed and/or communicated in real time, such as by using a wireless
communication method. This method may be used to track the rate of sedimentation/cell
packing, such as for the ESR (erythrocyte sedimentation rate) assay, where the speed of RBC
(red blood cell) settling is measured. In some embodiments, one or more cameras may be
positioned outside the rotor that can image the contents of the centrifuge vessel while the rotor is
spinning. This may be achieved by using a strobed illumination source that is timed with the
camera and spinning rotor. Real-time imaging of the contents of a centrifuge vessel while the
rotor is spinning may allow one to stop spinning the rotor after the centrifugation process has
completed, saving time and possibly preventing over-packing and/or over-separation of the
contents.
    [00191]     As seen in Figure 12, some embodiments may include a window or opening 3825
on the centrifugal vessel holder to allow for observation of the sample contained therein. This
may involve a camera or other detector that can visualize sample in the vessel through the
window or opening 3825. Optionally, some may provide window or opening 3825 to allow an
illumination source to radiate onto the sample being processed. Some embodiments may include
a detector such as a camera in the centrifuge, such as but not limited to being integrated into the
centrifuge rotor, to image the sample therein. This can be beneficial as the movement of any
blood component in the sample can be more easily visualized if the camera is in the same frame
of reference as the sample. Of course, embodiments where the detector such as but not limited to
a camera, is in a different frame of reference from the moving sample is not excluded. Non
visual detectors are also not excluded so long as they detect movement of blood components in
the vessels.
    [00192]     Some embodiments may also include a corresponding window or opening 3827
that is the same size or different size from the window or opening 3825. This window or
opening 3827 allows for illumination of the sample fluid within a centrifuge vessel while that

                                                 36
vessel remains in the centrifuge. Optionally, some embodiments may use the same opening for
both illumination and observation. Some embodiments have visualization through one window
or opening and illumination through another set of window or openings, which may or may not
oppose the first set of window or openings. For any of the embodiments herein, it should be
understood that the window or opening may include an optically transparent material that covers
such window or opening.
Thermal Control
    [00193]     Centrifugation can sometimes result in an undesirable change in sample
temperature due at least in part from heat generated from centrifuge operation. One source of
heat during centrifuge operation is waste heat from the drive motor and/or drive mechanism of
the centrifuge. This waste heat can be particularly problematic if several samples are processed
sequentially in the same centrifuge, and the heat from each operation is aggregated over that time
period which could undesirably elevate sample temperature outside an acceptable range.
    [00194]     To keep such waste heat or other thermal energy sources from undesirably
changing sample temperature, efforts may be made to insulate, actively cool, and/or configure
the system to channel undesired thermal energy away from the sample.
    [00195]     In one embodiment, because the motor can be integrated into the centrifuge, such
integration may benefit from efforts to address thermal issues related to the motor, the centrifuge
rotor, the bucket, the vessel, and/or the sample. Methods for addressing such thermal issues may
include simultaneously or sequentially performing one or more of the following: cooling down,
thermally isolating, and/or maintaining cooling. Some may involve active techniques to address
thermal issues. Some may involve passive techniques such as but not limited to thermally
isolating the centrifuge parts that connect to heat sources associated with the centrifuge.
    [00196]     Some embodiments may use thermally conductive materials such as but not
limited to thermal tape to alter the heat transfer profile of the centrifuge. In one nonlimiting
example, the tape can be configured to direct heat away from thermally sensitive areas on the
centrifuge that would have a thermal impact on the sample. Thermal tape is designed to provide
a preferential heat transfer path between heat-generating components and heat sinks or other
cooling devices (e.g., fans, heat spreaders, etc...). Thermal tape can be a tacky pressure sensitive
adhesive loaded with thermally conductive ceramic fillers that do not require a heat cure cycle to
form a bond to many substrates. This could be used alone or in combination with any of the
other thermal solutions described herein.

                                                  37
     [00197]     Some embodiments may use an active cooler such as but not limited to a Peltier
heater / cooler to cool the sample and/or one or more of the previously mentioned centrifuge
components. The active cooler can be in direct contact with the target surface being cooled.
Some embodiments may attach an active heat sink or Peltier heater / cooler to the bucket or
holder that houses the centrifugation vessel. Optionally, the active cooler may be proximate to
but not in direct contact with a target surface. For example, an active heat sink or Peltier heater /
cooler can be attached to a centrifuge housing proximate to portions of the centrifuge that hold
the sample.
     [00198]     Some embodiments may mount structures outside of the centrifuge housing to
assist in convective cooling. Some may involve adding fins or air moving structures to the
centrifuge rotor and/or other moving parts of the centrifuge. Some may attach fins or air moving
structures to stationary portions of the housing near the rotor. Such fins may be used to radiate
away any waste heat and/or to aid in convection.
     [00199]    As seen in Figure 12, some embodiments may use thermally non-conductive
materials to alter the heat transfer profile. In terms of efforts to insulate the sample from heat
source(s), some embodiments may change some metal materials to plastic or other strong
materials with low thermal conductivity. Some may isolate the sample with foam or other types
of insulation to prevent undesired heat transfer. Some may have the entire centrifuge rotor made
of the low thermal conductivity material. Some embodiments may only have portions of the
centrifuge rotor made of the low thermal conductivity material. As seen in Figure 12, some
embodiments may only replace select portions such as but not limited to the frame portion 3820
with thermally insulating material.
     [00200]    Referring now to Figure 13A, some embodiments may use one or more external
cooling devices 400 such as fans or air conditioning sources to use convection of cooled or
uncooled air or gas to minimize sample heating during centrifugation. As seen in Figure 13A,
some embodiments may use more than one cooling device 400 at different locations and/or
orientations about the centrifuge housing 402 to direct convective flow over the centrifuge.
     [00201]    Also seen in Figure 13A, some embodiments may have an active thermal device
410 such as but not limited to a Peltier effect heatsink attached to one or more of the components
of the centrifuge system such as but not limited to the centrifuge housing 402. Figure 13A
shows that the housing 402 which is stationary, may have active thermal devices 410 such as
Peltier effect heatsink 410 positioned at one or more locations on the housing 402. Some
embodiment may use conventional, passive heat sinks in place of or in combination with the
Peltier effect heatsinks 410. By way of example and not limitation, some of the locations

                                                38
indicated in Figure 13A to have active thermal devices 410 may have those units replaced by or
augmented by passive heat sinks.
    [00202]     In one embodiment, the Peltier effect heatsink may use electricity to achieve
extremely low temperatures. One embodiment may wire the Peltier effect heatsink into the
motor circuit. Of course, other configurations to power the heat sink are not excluded. Because
the opposite side of the heat sink is heated during operation, it is desirable that the heat sink be
positioned near a duct, vent, heat spreader, heat radiating fins, heat radiating pins, or other
element for drawing waste heat away from the cool side of the heat sink. Some may use a
thermally conducting motor mount to draw heat away from the internal components. One such
embodiment may include a fan with aluminum stator vanes brazed to an aluminum motor mount.
A motor may be tightly fit in the housing and pasted with "heat transfer compound" to provide a
preferred thermal pathway for directing heat away from the motor. This will improve heat
transfer from the motor to the cooling fins.
    [00203]     Although Figure 13A shows that thermal regulating elements may be placed on
the housing or other non-moving portions of the centrifuge system, it should also understood that
similar active or passive thermal device(s) can also be mounted on internal and/or moving
components of the centrifuge system. By way of non-limiting example, Figure 13B shows that
the motor, the centrifuge rotor 404, the bucket, the vessel, and/or surfaces in contact with the
sample may also be configured to be under thermal control of device(s) 410. Figure 13B shows
that active thermal devices 410 may be located on the perimeter side surfaces of the centrifuge
rotor 404. Optionally, the active thermal devices 410 may be located on a top surface of the
centrifuge rotor 404. Optionally, the active thermal devices 410 may be located on an underside
surface of the centrifuge rotor 404. Optionally, the active thermal devices 410 may be located on
a shroud, housing, or shield of the motor 412. By way of example and not limitation, some of
the locations indicated in Figure 13B to have active thermal devices 410 may have those units
replaced by or augmented by passive heat sinks.
    [00204]     Referring now to Figures 14A-14B, some embodiments may involve venting the
housing around the centrifuge rotor for improved convective air flow. This may involve putting
holes, cutouts, or shaped openings in the housing and/or centrifuge rotor to allow for air flow.
Vents 450 may be formed in the housing 452 that is around a portion of the centrifuge motor.
The vents 450 can be sized and/or positioned to allow for greater convective cooling of the
motor elements of the centrifuge. In the present non-limiting example, the larger opening 454 is
sized to accommodate an encoder ring reader. It should be understood that, in addition to the
vent(s), the embodiments of Figures 14A-14B may also include any of the active or passive

                                                  39
thermal elements described in Figures 13A-13B. Based on the position information provided by
various configurations described in this disclosure, some embodiments of the centrifuge can be
configured to drive and/or brake the centrifuge so that that centrifuge comes to rest at a specific
position designated by a user and/or a device such as but not limited to a programmable
processor.
    [00205]      Figure 15 shows yet another embodiment wherein vents 460 may be formed in the
housing 462 near the centrifuge rotor or even within the centrifuge rotor itself. The vents 460 in
the present embodiment can be positioned to be below the rotating portion of the centrifuge rotor
(not shown for ease of illustration). Other embodiments may have greater or fewer numbers of
vents 460. Other embodiments may have vents 460 of other shapes such as but not limited to
square, rectangle, ellipse, triangle, trapezoid, parallelogram, pentagon, hexagon, octagon, any
other shape, or single or multiple combinations of the foregoing. Some embodiments may have
vents 460 which all have the same shape. Some embodiments may have at least one of the vents
460 with a different shape than that of at least one other vent 460.
    [00206]      Referring now to Figures 16A-16D, still other embodiments may position thermal
control elements 500 on rotating and/or non-rotating parts of the centrifuge to encourage greater
convective thermal transfer. Figure 16A shows thermal control elements 500 in the shape of fins
on an outer radial surface of the centrifuge housing 501. The fins may have a planar
configuration. Optionally, some embodiments of the thermal control elements 500 may be a
protrusion in the shape of a pin 502. Some embodiments may combine one or more of these
structural features. These can be used as passive or active thermal control devices.
    [00207]      In some embodiments, the cross-sectional shape of a fin may be circular, crescent,
tear-drop, squared, rectangular, triangular, polygonal, or any other shape. The cross-sectional
shape of the fins may or may not be the same along the longitudinal length of the fins. For
example, in some embodiments, the fins may have a generally cylindrical shape; in other
embodiments, the fins may have a shape of pyramid (including frustum pyramid) or cones
(including frustum cones). In still other embodiments, the surfaces of the fins (e.g., pin-fins) may
be curved along the longitudinal length of the fins. Non-limiting examples of the surface profile
of a curved fin (e.g., pin-fin) include a hyperbolic curve, a quadratic curve, a polynomial curve
with an order higher than two, a circular arc, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments,
the fins are solid structures, but in other embodiments, the fins may be hollow. In some
embodiments, the fins may be partially hollow and partially solid. Hollow fins may allow
efficient heat transfer while further reducing the amount of material to be used to make the heat
sink, thereby further reducing production costs. Alternatively or additionally, a pattern formed by

                                                40
the fins may be broken by channels along the perimeter of the heat sink to provide additional
openings to the interior of the heat sink and to increase airflow to the internal fins. The resultant
channels may be of any pattern, such as general cross-cut, herringbone, or undulating. In some
embodiments, the fins may be coupled together at their base (or other connection area) to form a
connected network of fins, such as but not limited to a plurality of columns or rows. Some may
be connected to form a percolating network of connected fins.
     [00208]    Figure 16B shows one embodiment with fins 510 on the inner radial portion of
the centrifuge. Figure 16C shows fins 520 on an underside of the centrifuge rotor. Figure 16D
shows a still further embodiment wherein fins 530 on a circumferential portion of the rotor can
be optionally shaped and/or oriented for use with a shaped housing 540 to pull air into the
housing to help cool components therein as the centrifuge rotor spins. Of course, some
embodiments may combine one, two, three, or all of the above with other cooling elements to
maximize cooling potential of the system. The embodiments of Figures 16B-16D may have the
various thermal control devices coupled to either moving or stationary portions of the centrifuge.
     [00209]    In yet another embodiment, an internal fan-cooled electric motor (colloquially,
fan-cooled motor) may be used as a self-cooling electric motor. In one embodiment, fan cooled
motors feature an axial fan attached to the rotor of the motor (usually on the opposite end as the
output shaft) that spins with the motor, providing increased airflow to the motor's internal and
external parts which aids in cooling.
     [00210]    In another embodiment, water cooling may be used to cool the housing of the
motor. In one nonlimiting example, a small centrifugal pump could be built off the shaft, with a
reservoir of pre-cooled water circulated around the outer casing of the motor. Other active or
passive liquid cooling techniques may also be used. These may be used to cool a portion of the
motor housing. Some embodiments may be used to only cool the side walls of the motor
housing. Some may cool the entire housing. Some embodiments may only cool end portion(s)
of the housing, such as but not limited to the portions with the closest pathway to the sample.
     [00211]    In a still further embodiment, significantly lower winding resistance may be used
to reduce the amount of heat being generated by the motor. This may involve using a motor with
fewer windings to improve motor performance and in turn reduce heat output from the motor
itself. Changing the number of poles and magnets can also be selected to improve motor
performance. In this manner, one may select motor components to reduce thermal issues such as
through the use of motors with lower heat output for the normal operating conditions of the
centrifuge.

                                                41
Centrifuge Position Control
     [00212]    Referring now to Figures 17A-17D, improvements to the position control system
of the centrifuge rotor will now be described. In one embodiment, various encoder disks or
structures such as but not limited to encoder ring 600 may be used to more accurately control
and/or detect the position of the centrifuge rotor 604 from which a programmable processor can
calculate where the holders on the centrifuge rotor 604 are positioned. In such an embodiment,
accurate information about the position of the centrifuge rotor 604 will allow a pipette or a
sample handling system to accurately engage centrifuge vessels when the time comes to remove
such vessels from the centrifuge without the use of a "parking" system to always position the
centrifuge rotor 604 at a specific position when stopped.
     [00213]    Figure 17A shows one embodiment of an encoder ring 600 for use with a detector
602 for reading the encoder position. The encoder ring 600 will rotate with the centrifuge rotor
604 such that the encoder ring 600 will provide position information of the centrifuge rotor 604
and any features thereon. In one embodiment, the encoder ring 600 can have a pattern thereon
and be configured for use with an optical detector 602. In one embodiment, the ring 600 may be
made of glass or plastic with transparent and opaque areas. Some embodiments may use a
reflective pattern on the ring 600. The encoder ring 600 may be configured to detect each
distinct angle of the encoder ring. The ring 600 may be an absolute encoder or an incremental
encoder.
     [00214]    Figure 17B shows another embodiment wherein the encoder ring 610 is integrated
as part of the centrifuge rotor 604, such as along a circumferential perimeter portion of the rotor.
A detector 612 is oriented for use with the integrated encoder ring 610. This can be used alone
or in combination with other position detecting systems. Optionally, some embodiments may
use one system for high accuracy position sensing while another system is use for high speed
velocity sensing. The move of the encoder ring 610 from underneath the centrifuge rotor 604 can
also reduce overall centrifuge height as the detector 612 and encoder ring no longer occupy
vertical space below the centrifuge rotor 604.
     [00215]    In any of the embodiments herein, the centrifuge rotor 604 is hollow to allow for
components to be positioned within the rotor 604 during centrifuge operation. In one
embodiment, the entire centrifuge vessel is contained within the outline of the centrifuge rotor
when the centrifuge is in operation.
     [00216]    Figure 17C shows a still further embodiment wherein in making motors, the
motor 622 may incorporate the encoder ring or device 620 into the motor 622. The encoder 620
may be read by a detector within the motor 622 or by a detector located outside the motor 622 to

                                                 42
determine shaft angle position of the motor. Such an integrated encoder and motor configuration
may be used in the centrifuge and in other system components such as the pipettes in the sample
handling system where accurate position control is desired from a small motor form factor. By
way of example and not limitation, incremental encoders may be used on induction motor type
servomotors, while absolute encoders may be used in permanent magnet brushless motors. In
one embodiment, a housing 628 (shown in phantom) may be used to enclose an encoder portion
of the motor.
     [00217]    Figure 17D shows yet another embodiment wherein other encoder technologies
such as but not limited to conductive and/or magnetic encoding are used in place of or along with
other encoder techniques such as but not limited to optical encoders to detect rotor position.
Magnetic encoder reader(s) 650 and/or 652 may be positioned at various locations to detect
centrifuge rotor position. Other position detecting technologies may be used in place of or in
combination with the encoder technologies described herein. In some embodiments as described
herein, these capabilities can be integrated into the device.
     [00218]     Optionally, some embodiments may use separate sensors for speed and position.
Some may use the same sensor for both. By way of example and not limitation, embodiments
with more than one sensor can be configured for to have one for fine position control and one for
velocity control. In this manner, higher centrifuge speeds such as but not limited to 40000rpm
may be achieved without having to resort to more sophisticated sensors as each type can be
optimized for its particular purpose, such as high accuracy position control at low speeds and
velocity control at higher speeds. A programmable processor can be used to determine when to
transition control of the centrifuge rotation based on one sensor or the other. Optionally, data
from both types of sensors can be used during all time domains to provide accurate position and
velocity control.
     [00219]    It should be understood that in systems where accurate control is not possible, a
system using stops can be used to ensure that the final rest position of the centrifuge rotor is
known. Other embodiments may use alignment guides, pins, cams, and/or other mechanisms to
move the centrifuge rotor to a known position so that a sample handling system can accurately
engage centrifuge vessels on the rotor. From knowledge of where the centrifuge has stopped, the
pipette can go to the vessels. Some embodiments of the centrifuge may also have guides to
direct the pipette to the desired location or to use the pipette to move the centrifuge rotor to the
right position prior to engaging any sample containing vessels mounted on the centrifuge.
     [00220]    As seen in Figures 17A- 17D, a central part of centrifuge may have a single
bearing, optionally two bearings pressed 660 together to improve stability while spinning and

                                                  43
particularly for improving bearing life. As seen in Figures 17A-17D, multiple bearings may be
positioned to more evenly distribute load than if only a single bearing were used. Of course,
other numbers and/or types of bearings are not excluded.
     [00221]     In some embodiments described herein, it should be understood that the motor
may be enhanced with position and/or velocity sensing capabilities directly integrated into the
motor. In one non-limiting example, some embodiments may achieve position and/or velocity
sensing through the addition of hardware. In one embodiment, rotational position and/or
velocity sensing can be configured for one or more rotating portions of the motor or rotating
elements attached to the motor.
     [00222]     Possibilities for hardware integrated with the motor include but are not limited to
 1) optical encoder(s) (for position (relative and/or absolute) and/or velocity sensing) and/or 2)
Hall effect sensor(s) (for position (relative) and/or velocity sensing). A Hall effect sensor is a
semiconductor device where the electron flow is affected by a magnetic field perpendicular to
the direction of current flow. In one non-limiting example, Hall effect sensor(s) can be used to
detect the position of the permanent magnet in a brushless DC electric motor.
     [00223]     Some embodiments may combine multiple types of detector hardware, such as
but not limited to both Hall effect sensor(s) and optical encoder(s) in the same motor.
Optionally, some embodiments may have multiple sensors of the same type in the motor. Of
course, other types of position and/or velocity detecting hardware are not excluded from
embodiments herein or from being used in combination with optical or magnetic encoders.
     [00224]     By way of non-limiting example, at least some embodiments of the sensors and/or
encoders herein can perform at speeds of up to 12000 RPM with at least 1800 counts per
revolution for position sensing. Optionally, at least some embodiments of the sensors and/or
encoders herein can perform at speeds of up to 10000 RPM with at least 1600 counts per
revolution for position sensing. In one embodiment, the encoder has an index that is aligned
identically to the motor assembly in each centrifuge for absolute positioning. Some embodiments
may use absolute encoders such as but not limited to multi-bit Gray code encoders and/or single
track Gray encoders for absolute position. Some embodiments may use sine wave encoders.
Encoder technologies may include but are not limited to conductive tracks, optical tracks
(including reflective versions), and magnetic encoding tracks sensed by a Hall-effect sensor or
magnetoresistive sensor.
     [00225]     In the case of either configuration (sensor or encoder), at least some embodiments
herein may be configured such that overall height (not including output shaft) is at or below
 13mm, while the diameter would stay below 35mm. Optionally, some embodiments may have

                                                44
an overall height of about 10mm or less and diameter of 30 mm or less. In some embodiments,
the hardware is designed such that integration of position and/or velocity sensing hardware does
not change external motor housing dimensions relative to the same motors without sensing
hardware. Optionally, one can mount the Hall sensor(s) in the stator slot(s) of the motor to
minimize size change.
    [00226]     Optionally, some alternative embodiments may use firmware and/or software that
detect position and/or velocity of the rotor without additional hardware. Examples may include
monitoring back-EMF, tracking impedance, or using other techniques for sensorless motor
control. One or more of the techniques described herein can be combined for use in position
and/or velocity sensing.
    [00227]     Referring now to Figure 17E, another embodiment of the centrifuge is shown with
magnetic sensors such as but not limited to Hall-effect sensor assembly 630 that can be
integrated directly into the motor assembly or be outside of the motor but is a part of the
centrifuge assembly. Figure 17E shows an exploded view wherein the Hall-effect detectors 632
and the encoder portion 634 are shown. Arrow 636 shows that the assembly 630 can be inserted
into centrifuge housing in the direction shown. By way of no limiting example, this assembly
630 is shown with three detectors 632, but it should be understood that other numbers of
detectors may be used. The assembly 630 is also shown with all detectors on the same plane. It
should be understood that some embodiments may have detectors on different planes, including
but not limited to detectors both above and below the Hall-effect encoder portion 634. By way
of nonlimiting example, the encoder portion includes a plurality of magnets and/or other
magnetic field generating or interfering components that can be detected by the Hall-effect
detectors 632.
    [00228]     Referring now to Figure 17F, a perspective view of one embodiment of a motor
with integrated position and/or velocity sensing is shown. For ease of illustration, some motor
components are not shown for this embodiment to provide a clear view of the encoder
components used with the motor. This encoder embodiment can be used to detect shaft position
and/or rotor position. In this nonlimiting example, a detector 670 is used in combination with an
encoder disc 672 and a Hall-effect encoder disc 674. The detector 670 may have a first surface
directed towards detecting optical encoder information and a second surface for detecting
magnetic encoder information. In one non-limiting example, the detector 670 may have a first
surface 680 for detecting a first type of encoder information, such as but not limited to optical
encoder information, and a second surface 682 for detecting a second type of encoder
information, such as but not limited to magnetic-type encoder information. Optionally, some

                                                45
embodiments may have both the first type and the second type of encoder information be the
same type such as but not limited to both being optical or both being magnetic. In such a
configuration, the resolution may optionally be different between the at least two encoder types
with one providing better low speed resolution for position control and one with better high
speed resolution for velocity control. This can also be true when using different types of encoder
information (such as one optical and one magnetic). Of course, embodiments using even more
sensors 670 or more than two types of encoder information are not excluded.
    [00229]     Referring still to Figure 17F, magnetic components 676 can be mounted in the
disc 674. These elements can all be configured to rotate with the motor shaft 678. The motor
housing H can extend to cover all, a portion, or none of these encoder components. Optionally,
some embodiments may combine at least two encoder types onto one rotating element such but
not limited to an encoder disc. In one such a configuration, a single disc on the shaft may
include both magnetic and optical encoder components. By way of nonlimiting example, an
outer portion of the ring may have the area for the optical encoder while an inner portion has the
magnetic components or vice versa. Optionally, both are on the same portions of the ring.
Optionally, one type of encoder type may be on a planar surface while another component is on a
lateral surface of the disc. ). Of course, embodiments using more than two types of encoder
information on a single rotating component are not excluded. By way of example and not
limitation, embodiments using a single detector 670 can also simplify manufacturing by having a
single wire harness to attach to the detector 670, thus simplifying wire management.
    [00230]     Figure 17G shows yet another type of motor that can be configured to include one
or more of the encoder assemblies disclosed herein. Some embodiments may use one rotor 640
and one stator 642 in the motor design. Optionally, some may use a stator 644, rotor 640, and
stator 642 for increased torque. Any of these embodiments may be configured to have the
encoder assemblies shown herein. Some may attach or integrate the encoder elements such as
but not limited to optical encoder disc or magnetic encoder disc directly to the stator or rotor. It
should be understood that the motor may adapted for use with other encoder hardware or other
encoder techniques. As seen in Figure 17G, embodiments of this motor can be configured to fit
inside the motor housings shown in Figures 17A-E to rotate the centrifuge body.
Autobalancing
    [00231]     Referring now to Figure 18A, some embodiments herein may configured to use
an autobalancing mechanism on the rotor to minimize rotor vibration not all of the holders
contain samples. One embodiment may use autobalancing elements 700 such as but not limited

                                                 46
to beads, spheres, or weights to autobalance the centrifuge rotor, and this could be useful to
compensate for different sample volumes in different buckets. Some embodiments may load
without buckets in some of the centrifuge holders. The autobalancing elements 700 may be in a
channel 710 (covered or uncovered) to allow the autobalancing elements to reach a steady state
position that best minimizes rotational instability of the rotor during operation. In some
embodiments, instead of having a channel that is continuous along the circumferential perimeter,
some embodiments may have the channel formed in certain discrete sections with autobalancing
elements that will stay only in their specific, discrete section of the channel.
    [00232]     Optionally as seen in Figure 18B, some embodiments may include holding
features 720 that only release the autobalancing elements 700 into free movement once a
minimum rotational speed is reached and centrifugal or other force releases the autobalancing
elements for movement. The features 720 may move as indicated by arrows 722 when sufficient
speed is reached. This movement releases the autobalancing elements 700 to move to a position
to balance loads on the centrifuge. In this manner, at slower speeds, the autobalancing elements
700 are not free moving. This can help minimize noise and rotational instability that may result
from the autobalancing elements 700 being able to easily roll at slower speeds to non-optimal
balance positions.
    [00233]     In one embodiment, the weight of the autobalancing elements 700 may be
selected to be at least about half the total maximum weight of all sample containers and sample
that could be used with the centrifuge. In another embodiment, the weight of the autobalancing
elements 700 may be selected to be at least about 40% the total maximum weight of all sample
containers and sample that could be used with the centrifuge. In yet another embodiment, the
weight of the autobalancing elements 700 may be selected to be at least about 30% the total
maximum weight of all sample containers and sample that could be used with the centrifuge. Of
course, other weight amounts are not excluded.
    [00234]     Referring now to Figure 18C, a still further embodiment may have the
autobalancing elements 700 in a plurality of separate areas 730 on a rotating portion of the
centrifuge. In one embodiment, the areas 730 can be connected to each other so that the
autobalancing elements 700 can move from area to area. Optionally, some embodiments may
have each of the areas 730 isolated from one another so that the autobalancing elements 700 do
not move from one area 730 to another.
Non-Mechanical Bearing(s)

                                                47
    [00235]     In a still further embodiment, some systems may be configured without
mechanical bearings and instead use non-mechanical bearing such as but not limited to air
bearings 720. The air bearings may generates less heat - this can reduce the time required for
centrifuge. Or it may enable longer centrifuge times without the thermal penalty that may arise
from heat associated with mechanical bearings. Air bearings are available from vendors such as
but not limited to, New Way Air Bearings of Aston, PA, USA. Of course, some embodiments
may combine the use of both air and mechanical bearings in the same device.
    [00236]     Figure 19B shows yet another embodiment wherein one of the air bearings is in a
ring shape 722 while other air bearings 724 are configured to oppose side walls of the centrifuge
rotor. By way of non-limiting example, the air bearings 724 may be shaped in continuous or
non-continuous manner to support the centrifuge rotor.
Fault Detection Sensor
    [00237]     Referring now to Figure 20, yet another embodiment of a centrifuge device will
now be described. Figure 20 is cross-sectional perspective view showing a centrifuge rotor 800
such as but not limited to a centrifuge disc that spins as indicated by arrows 802 within a non
rotating housing 804. The centrifuge may include a detector 810 such as but not limited to an
accelerometer mounted on the centrifuge to detect undesired force changes during centrifuge
operation. In one embodiment, the detector 810 is mounted to the outside of the centrifuge
housing to detect if an error has occurred. The detector 810 can be used to detect early
indications of unusual instability in the operation of the centrifuge. If these signs of instability
are detected in terms of unusual rates of change in forces being experienced by the centrifuge,
then the centrifuge may opt, such as by way of programmable processor, to slow or cease
operations prior to a catastrophic device failure. Some embodiments may trigger other actions
such as alarms or alerts based on detection of rate of change or forces outside a threshold range.
    [00238]     Figure 20 also shows other features discussed herein that are incorporated into the
present embodiment. For example and not limitation, air bearings 722 and/or 724 may be
incorporated for use with this embodiment of the device. Vibrational damper(s) 816 may also be
used to isolate vibrations from the centrifuge from transferring to other elements outside the
centrifuge housing. Figure 20 also shows that thermally insulating zones 820, 822, and/or 824
may be used to minimize heat transfer from the motor 830 to other portions of the centrifuge
rotor.
    [00239]     It should be understood that the embodiment of Figure 20 may be configured for
use with any of the rotor and/or vessel holder configurations described, including but not limited

                                                  48
to those shown in Figures I to 12. Some may have a majority of the vessel holder extending
above the upper plane or surface of the centrifuge rotor when the rotor is stationary. Optionally,
some may have the vessel holder extending below the plane or surface of the centrifuge rotor
when the rotor is stationary. For those embodiments wherein the vessel holder extends below
the plane or surface of the centrifuge rotor, the housing 804 may be configured to have a shaped
cutout to allow for clearance of the vessel holder and/or vessel when rotating in the downward
extending position. Optionally, some embodiments may mount the rotor 800 higher and/or the
entire motor higher to provide a clearance sufficient for the vessel holder and/or vessel when
rotating in the downward extending position.
     [00240]     By way of non-limiting example, the centrifuge may have a footprint of about less
                          2         2       2        2      22222
than or equal to 0.1 mm2, 0.5 mm, 1 mm2, 3 mm2, 5 mm2, 7 mm2, 10 mm2, 15 mm2, 20 mm2, 25
     2        2         2        2        2          22222
mm2, 30 mm2, 40 mm2, 50 mm, 60 mm2,           70 mm2,   80 mm2, 90 mm2, 100 mm2, 125 mm2, 150
     2          2           2         2          2                 2
mm , 200 mm , 250 mm , 300 mm , 500 mm , or up to 750 mm2. The cytometer may have one
or more dimension (e.g., width, length, height) of less than or equal to 0.05 mm, 0.1 mm, 0.5
mm, 0.7 mm, 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, 5 mm, 6 mm, 7 mm, 8 mm, 9 mm, 10 mm, 11 mm, 12
mm, 13 mm, 15 mm, 17 mm, 20 mm, 25 mm, 30 mm, 40 mm, 50 mm, 60 mm, 70 mm, 80 mm,
 100 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 300 mm, 500 mm, or 750 mm.
     [00241]     The embodiment of Figure 20 also shows, that for at least some embodiments
herein, a rotor/stator configuration wherein the stator is coaxially mounted within the rotor,
wherein the rotor includes the centrifuge disc as connected or integrally formed with the rotor of
the motor.
     [00242]     Figure 20 also shows that for at least some embodiments herein, a housing 804
shaped to enclose at least the circumferential perimeter of the centrifuge disc of rotor 800 can
provide for controlled area within which the centrifuge disc can rotate. The rotational pieces of
this embodiment can include the encoder wheel 600, the centrifuge disc of rotor 800, and the
rotor portion of the motor. The housing 804 can act, in some embodiments, as shield to keep
vibrational motion of the motor within the housing, as a damper 816 can be mounted to the
housing 804 to provide isolation therein. There may be bearings 830 and 832 on which the
rotational portions can be mounted to. Optionally, some embodiments may be configured to use
only a single bearing. Optionally, some embodiments may be configured to use a plurality of
bearings. Some embodiments may use a motor of Figures 17F or 17G to power the centrifuge of
Figure 20. Optionally, a centrifuge having one or more of the features described herein can be
mounted on a system of Figure 21 having an overhead sample handling system as shown or
similar to that shown in Figure 21. Optionally, such a centrifuge can be mounted on a common

                                                49
mounted plate, common platform, or common frame as the other components 912, 914, or 916
and all serviceable by the overhead sample handling system.
     [00243]    It should also be understood that the embodiment of Figure 20 can also be
configured to include features from the other figures herein, such as but not limited to the self
balancing features of Figures 18A- 18C
Point of Service System
     [00244]    Referring now to Figure 21, it should be understood that the processes described
herein may be performed using automated techniques. The automated processing may be used in
an integrated, automated system. In some embodiments, this may be in a single instrument
having a plurality of functional components therein and surrounded by a common housing. The
processing techniques and methods for sedimentation measure can be pre-set. Optionally, that
may be based on protocols or procedures that may be dynamically changed as desired in the
manner described in U.S. patent applications Ser. Nos. 13/355,458 and 13/244,947, both fully
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
     [00245]    In one non-limiting example as shown in Figure 21, an integrated instrument 900
may be provided with a programmable processor 902 which can be used to control a plurality of
components of the instrument. For example, in one embodiment, the processor 902 may control
a single or multiple pipette system 904 that is movable X-Y and Z directions as indicated by
arrows 906 and 908. The same or different processor may also control other components 912,
914, or 916 in the instrument. In one embodiment, tone of the components 912, 914, or 916
comprises a centrifuge.
     [00246]    As seen in Figure 21, control by the processor 902 may allow the pipette system
904 to acquire blood sample from cartridge 910 and move the sample to one of the components
912, 914, or 916. Such movement may involve dispensing the sample into a removable vessel in
the cartridge 910 and then transporting the removable vessel to one of the components 912, 914,
or 916. Optionally, blood sample is dispensed directly into a container already mounted on one
of the components 912, 914, or 916. In one non-limiting example, one of these components 912,
914, or 916 may be a centrifuge with an imaging configuration to allow for both illumination and
visualization of sample in the container. Other components 912, 914, or 916 perform other
analysis, assay, or detection functions.
     [00247]    In one nonlimiting example, a sample vessel in a centrifuge such as one of these
components 912, 914, or 916 can be moved by one or more manipulators from one of the
components 912, 914, or 916 to another of the components 912, 914, or 916 (or optionally

                                                       50
another location or device) for further processing of the sample and/or the sample vessel. Some
may use the pipette system 904 to engage the sample vessel to move it from the components 912,
914, or 916 to another location in the system. This can be useful, in a non-limiting example, to
move the sample vessel to an analysis station (such as but not limited to imaging) and then
moving the vessel back to a centrifuge for further processing. In embodiments, this can be done
using the pipette system 904 or other sample handling system in the device. Movements of
vessels, tips, or the like from the cartridge 910 to one of the components 912, 914, or 916 to
another location in the system (or vice versa) can also be done, in one non-limiting example,
using the pipette system 904 or other sample handling system in the device. It should also be
understood that in some embodiments, the pipette system 904 can be used to rotate the centrifuge
rotor to the appropriate position so that vessel(s) can be loaded and/or unloaded from known
positions. In such an embodiment, the pipette system 904 may use a tip, nozzle, or other pipette
feature to engage the centrifuge rotor or other feature that can rotate the rotor until it is moved
rotationally to a desired orientation.
     [00248]      All of the foregoing may be integrated within a single housing 920 and configured
for bench top or small footprint floor mounting. In one example, a small footprint floor mounted
                                                     2
system may occupy a floor area of about 4M or less. In one example, a small footprint floor
                                                                  2
mounted system may occupy a floor area of about 3m or less.            2   In one example, a small footprint
                                                                       2
floor mounted system may occupy a floor area of about 2M or less. In one example, a small
footprint floor mounted system may occupy a floor area of about IM2 or less. In some
embodiments, the instrument footprint may be less than or equal to about 4 M2 , 3 M 2 , 2.5 M 2 , 2
m2, 1.5 m2, 1 M 2 , 0.75 M 2 , 0.5 M 2 , 0.3 in
                                               2
                                                 , 0.2 M 2 , 0.1 M2 , 0.08 M2 , 0.05 M 2 , 0.03 M 2 , 100 cm 2 , 80
cm 2 , 70 cm 2, 60 cm 2, 50 cm 2 , 40 cm 2 , 30 cm 2, 20 cm 2 , 15 cm 2 , or 10 cm 2 . Some suitable systems
in a point-of-service setting are described in U.S. patent applications Ser. Nos. 13/355,458 and
 13/244,947, both fully incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. The present
embodiments may be configured for use with any of the modules or systems described in those
patent applications.
     [00249]      By way of non-limiting example, the centrifuge may have a footprint of about less
than or equal to 0.1 mm 2 , 0.5 mm 2 , 1 mm 2, 3 mm 2, 5 mm 2 , 7 mm 2 , 10 mm 2 , 15 mm 2, 20 mm 2, 25
     2         2          2         2          2            22222
mm2, 30 mm, 40 mm, 50 mm, 60 mm, 70 mm, 80 mm2, 90 mm2,100 mm2, 125 mm2, 150
     2           2          2            2             2                     2
mm2, 200 mm2, 250 mm2, 300 mm2, 500 mm2, or up to 750 mm2. The cytometer may have one
or more dimension (e.g., width, length, height) of less than or equal to 0.05 mm, 0.1 mm, 0.5
mm, 0.7 mm, 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, 5 mm, 6 mm, 7 mm, 8 mm, 9 mm, 10 mm, 11 mm, 12

                                                51
mm, 13 mm, 15 mm, 17 mm, 20 mm, 25 mm, 30 mm, 40 mm, 50 mm, 60 mm, 70 mm, 80 mm,
 100 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 300 mm, 500 mm, or 750 mm.
     [00250]    While the invention has been described and illustrated with reference to certain
particular embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations,
changes, modifications, substitutions, deletions, or additions of procedures and protocols may be
made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example, with any of the
above embodiments, it should be understood that other techniques for plasma separation may
also be used with or in place of centrifugation. For example, one embodiment may centrifuge
the sample for an initial period, and then the sample may be located into a filter that then
removes the formed blood components to complete separation. Although the present
embodiments are described in the context of centrifugation, other accelerated separation
techniques may also be adapted for use systems herein. It should also be understood that
although the present embodiments are described in the context of blood samples, the techniques
herein may also be configured to be applied to other samples (biological or otherwise). Any of
the embodiments herein may be configured have the encoder and/or sensors described in this
disclosure. Any of the embodiments herein may be configured have the position detecting
devices described in this disclosure.   Any of the embodiments herein may be configured have
the auto-stop features described in this disclosure. Any of the embodiments herein may be
configured have the thermal control feature(s) described in this disclosure.
     [00251]    Optionally, at least one embodiment may use a variable speed centrifuge. With
feedback, such as but not limited to imaging of the position of interface(s) in the sample, the
speed of the centrifuge could be varied to keep the compaction curve linear with time (until fully
compacted), and the ESR data extracted from the speed profile of the centrifuge rather than the
sedimentation rate curve. In such a system, one or more processors can be used to feedback
control the centrifuge to have a linear compaction curve while speed profile of the centrifuge is
also recorded. Depending on which interface is being tracked, the sedimentation rate data is
calculated based centrifuge speed. In one non-limiting example, a higher centrifuge speed is
used to keep a linear curve as the compaction nears completion.
     [00252]    Furthermore, those of skill in the art will recognize that any of the embodiments
of the present invention can be applied to collection of sample fluid from humans, animals, or
other subjects. Optionally, the volume of blood used for sedimentation testing may be 1 mL or
less, 500 pL or less, 300 pL or less, 250 pL or less, 200 pL or less, 170 pL or less, 150 pL or
less, 125 pL or less, 100 pL or less, 75 pL or less, 50 pL or less, 25 pL or less, 20 pL or less, 15

                                                  52
pL or less, 10 pL or less, 5 pL or less, 3 pL or less, 1 pL or less, 500 nL or less, 250 nL or less,
 100 nL or less, 50 nL or less, 20 nL or less, 10 nL or less, 5 nL or less, or 1 nL or less.
     [00253]     Additionally, concentrations, amounts, and other numerical data may be presented
herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used merely for
convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical
values explicitly recited as the limits of the range, but also to include all the individual numerical
values or sub-ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub-range is
explicitly recited. For example, a size range of about 1 nm to about 200 nm should be interpreted
to include not only the explicitly recited limits of about 1 nm and about 200 nm, but also to
include individual sizes such as 2 nm, 3 nm, 4 nm, and sub-ranges such as 10 nm to 50 nm, 20
nm to 100 nm, etc....
     [00254]     The publications discussed or cited herein are provided solely for their disclosure
prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an
admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior
invention. Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication
dates which may need to be independently confirmed. All publications mentioned herein are
incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the structures and/or methods in
connection with which the publications are cited. The following applications are fully
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes: U.S. patent applications Ser. Nos. 13/355,458
and 13/244,947; U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/673,245 entitled "High Speed,
Compact Centrifuge for Use with Small Sample Volumes" filed July 18, 2012, U.S. Provisional
Application Ser. No. 61/675,758 entitled "High Speed, Compact Centrifuge for Use with Small
Sample Volumes" filed July 25, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/706,753
entitled "High Speed, Compact Centrifuge for Use with Small Sample Volumes" filed
September 27, 2012; U.S. Patents 8,380,541, 8,088,593; U.S. Patent Publication No.
2012/0309636; U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 61/676,178, filed July 26, 2012; PCT/US2012/57155,
filed September 25, 2012; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/244,946, filed September 26, 2011;
U.S. Patent Application 13/244,949, filed September 26, 2011; and U.S. Application Serial No.
61/673,245, filed September 26, 2011.
     [00255]     While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment of the
present invention, it is possible to use various alternatives, modifications and equivalents.
Therefore, the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the
above description but should, instead, be determined with reference to the appended claims,
along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature, whether preferred or not, may be

                                               53
combined with any other feature, whether preferred or not. The appended claims are not to be
interpreted as including means-plus-function limitations, unless such a limitation is explicitly
recited in a given claim using the phrase "means for." It should be understood that as used in the
description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "a," "an," and "the"
includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also, as used in the
description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "in" includes "in" and
"on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Finally, as used in the description herein and
throughout the claims that follow, the meanings of "and" and "or" include both the conjunctive
and disjunctive and may be used interchangeably unless the context expressly dictates otherwise.
Thus, in contexts where the terms "and" or "or" are used, usage of such conjunctions do not
exclude an "and/or" meaning unless the context expressly dictates otherwise.
     [00256]    This document contains material subject to copyright protection. For example, all
figures shown herein are copyrighted material. The copyright owner (Applicant herein) has no
objection to facsimile reproduction of the patent documents and disclosures, as they appear in the
US Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright
rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply: Copyright 2012-2013 Theranos, Inc.

                                                   54
CLAIMS
1.    A compact high speed centrifuge for use with low volume sample containers, the
centrifuge comprising:
       a centrifuge rotor;
       a motor for rotating said centrifuge rotor; and
       a detector integrated with the motor and configured to determine at least a rotational
position of a rotating portion of the motor, wherein the detector uses at least two different types
of encoder information to determine said rotational position.
2.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 wherein the detector uses at least an optical encoder technique
and a Hall-effect technique to determine rotational position.
3.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 wherein the detector uses at least an optical encoder technique
and a Hall-effect technique to determine at least rotational position and rotational velocity.
4.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 wherein the detector has a first surface directed towards
detecting one type of encoder information and a second surface directed towards detecting
another type of encoder information.
5.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 wherein the first surface and the second surface are oriented in
different directions.
6.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 wherein the first surface and the second surface are oriented in
the same direction.
7.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 comprising a plurality of detectors for determining rotational
position.
8.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 further comprising a first encoder disc providing the first type of
encoder information and a second encoder disc providing the second type of encoder
information.
9.    A centrifuge as in claim 1 further comprising a first encoder disc providing optical encoder
information and a second encoder disc providing magnetic encoder information.

                                                  55
10.   A centrifuge as in claim 1 further comprising an encoder disc providing the first type of
encoder information and the second type of encoder information.
11.   A centrifuge as in claim 1 further comprising an encoder disc providing both optical
encoder information and magnetic encoder information.
12.   A method comprising:
      providing a motor;
      integrating a first type of encoder into the motor;
      integrating a second type of encoder into the motor;
      determining rotational position of a rotating portion of the motor using the first type of
encoder;
      determining rotational velocity of the rotating portion of the motor using the second type of
encoder.
13.   A method as in claim 12 wherein the first type of encoder provides optical encoder
information.
14.   A method as in claim 12 wherein the first type of encoder provides magnetic encoder
information.
15.   A method as in claim 12 wherein the first type of encoder provides Hall-effect encoder
information.
16.   A method as in claim 12 wherein the first type of encoder and the second type of encoder
provide different types of encoder information.
17.   A compact high speed centrifuge for use with sample containers, the centrifuge
comprising:
      a first portion comprising a thermally insulating material;
      a second portion comprising a thermally conductive material;
      wherein containers are arranged such that the containers are located in areas with the
thermally insulating material;
      wherein the thermally conductive material is configured to channel heat in a direction
leading away from the containers.

                                                56
18.  A compact high speed centrifuge for use with sample containers, the centrifuge
comprising:
     a centrifuge body;
     a drive mechanism for rotating said centrifuge body;
     an active cooling unit for minimizing heat transfer to the sample;
     wherein containers are arranged such that the containers are located in areas with reduced
thermal exposure;
     said active cooling unit configured to cool the drive mechanism;
     wherein stator is located coaxially within a rotor of a motor in the drive mechanism.
19.  A compact high speed centrifuge for use with sample containers, the centrifuge
comprising:
     a centrifuge body;
     a drive mechanism for rotating said centrifuge body; and
     a position detector for use in determining rotational position of the centrifuge body.
20.  A compact high speed centrifuge for use with sample containers, the centrifuge
comprising:
     a centrifuge body;
     a drive mechanism for rotating said centrifuge body, wherein said centrifuge body extends
downward to cover at least a portion of the drive mechanism;
     wherein the drive mechanism comprises a stator and a rotor;
     wherein the rotor is concentric about the stator.
                                          Theranos, Inc.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  15 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 19 / 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20 / 20

