Abstract
A method pressing timber, the method including the pressing of plantation bamboo as the
main biomass resource in the production of a Chemical-free Cellulose Fibre as an
alternative resource to Eucalyptus Hardwood extraction from native forests.

          CELLSONITE PROCESSING FLOWCHART
                                          Primary
                                            Raw
                                          Material
Mechanical
Harvesting
                                          DEFIBRISING
                                           Equipment
Plantation
 Bamboo
                                           CELLSONITE
                                             Building
                                             Products

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

                     AUSTRALIA
                   Patents Act 1990
            COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                INNOVATION PATENT
 MANUFACTURE OF "CELLSONITE"
            A CHEMICAL FREE
           BUILDING PRODUCT
The following statement is a full description of this
              Innovation Application:

                 MANUFACTURE OF CHEMICAL FREE
                     BAMBOO BUILDING PRODUCTS
SUMMARY
[001] Pressed timber products manufactured in Australia fall into two main
categories. MDF Medium Density Fibreboard and HDF High Density
Fibreboard. MDF being processed using Pinewood as a resource and HDF
processed using Hardwood forest timber as a resource. There is one
remaining manufacturing facility in Australia producing commercial quantities
of "MASONITE" for the local market. The raw material is sourced from Old
Growth Forests in Northern New South Wales. There are several
manufacturers of MDF products using existing Pine plantations in Queensland
and New South Wales.
[002] Medium-density fibreboard (MDF) is an engineered wood product made
by breaking down hardwood or softwood residuals into wood fibres, often in a
defibrator, combining it with wax and a resin binder, and forming panels by
applying high temperature and pressure?1' MDF is generally denser than
plywood. It is made up of separated fibres, but can be used as a building
material similar in application to plywood. It is stronger and much denser than
particle board.
[003] The main use of MDF boards is in the manufacture of furniture,
wallboards, cabinetmaking, cupboards and internal "fit-outs" in commercial
premises.
[004] Current manufacture of MDF building products require binding agents,
with Formaldehyde based glues being the most recognised products. These
products are known for their constant leaching of toxins into the living /
working spaces of home and office areas, causing known pre-cursors to many
respiratory based illnesses. Even the most "environmentally friendly /
acceptable" manufactured products using this MDF process cannot prevent
the long term leaching of toxins.
 [005] Our Innovative approach to current technology is the use of plantation
bamboo as the main biomass resource in the production of a Chemical-free
Cellulose Fibre as an alternative resource to Eucalyptus Hardwood extraction
from native forests.
[004] The innovative use of Thermo-mechanical technology ensures a low
energy, chemical-free process in the production of high-grade cellulose fibre.
The result being a non-toxic product with similar or superior properties than is
currently available.

[006] High Density Fibreboard (HDF) - MASONITE - uses similar technology,
the difference being the manufacture of HDF products in Australia require the
felling of "Old Growth Forests" for the supply of raw material.
[007] The manufacture of "CELLSONITE" sheeting incorporates current
technology in the moulding / pressing of the final sheeting to suit current
market and Building Code requirements.
[008] There is a Global demand for a "Non-toxic, Clean, Green, Chemical
free" alternative to the current range of timber-based products.

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

                            AUSTRALIA
                          Patents Act 1990
                       INNOVATION PATENT
                              CLAIM
          MANUFACTURE OF "CELLSONITE"
                    A CHEMICAL FREE
                   BUILDING PRODUCT
The following statement is a claim made regarding the manufacture
                     of Bamboo Panel Board

                                     CLAIM
                 MANUFACTURE OF CHEMICAL FREE
                      BAMBOO BUILDING PRODUCTS
SUMMARY
[001] The claim is CELLSONITE is manufactured from specific, selected
species of locally grown sympodial bamboo.
[002] CELLSONITE products require no chemical adhesives or Formaldehyde
based resins.
[003] CELLSONITE has similar visual characteristics to other "Masonite"
products however the mechanical and durability characteristics are of a much
higher standard.
[004] CELLSONITE is manufactured using current technologies with differing
application of existing technologies to achieve high quality products for a
range of building applications including exterior and internal wet areas,
cabinet making and bench top application.
[005] CELLSONITE will be the first bamboo product to achieve Australian
Building Standard certification.
 [008] There is a Global demand for a "Non-toxic, Clean, Green, Chemical
free" alternative to the current range of timber-based products.

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                   <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
