     [ABSTRACT]
           To accurately acquire an image of an inside of an oral cavity of a person to be
   treated, there is provided a dental retractor including a retracting base portion that
   includes an inner retracting portion extending in an arch-shaped profile to surround
 5 an inner portion of gum at any one side of an upper jaw and a lower jaw inside an
   oral cavity and having a pressing holding portion formed at an outer peripheral
   surface so that a tongue is accommodated therein and an outer retracting portion
   integrally extending from both ends of the inner retracting portion and extending in
   an arch-shaped profile to surround an outer portion of the gum, and a handle portion
10 including a grip portion connected outward from the retracting base portion.
                                             38

                                       [DESCRIPTION]
     [Invention Title]
                                  DENTAL RETRACTOR
     [Technical Field]
 5          The present invention relates to a dental retractor, and more particularly, to a
   dental retractor for accurately acquiring an image of an oral cavity of a person to be
   treated.
     [Background Art]
            An implant generally refers to a substitute that can substitute for a human
10 tissue when an original human tissue is lost but refers to implanting an artificially
   made tooth in dentistry.
            To place an implant, first, a perforation is formed in an alveolar bone using a
   drill and a fixture is placed in the perforation.     The perforation formation and the
   implant placement are differently performed for each person to be treated.          This is
15 because a position, a depth, and a direction of an implant placement should be
   determined in consideration of various factors such as a state of a tooth of a person to
   be treated, a position of a tooth that requires an implant placement, a state of an
   alveolar bone of the person to be treated, or the like.
            In this way, it is very difficult for an experienced person as well as an
20 inexperienced unskilled person to accurately determine the depth and the direction in
   a drilling task for forming a perforation in an alveolar bone.    Further, it is extremely
   difficult for an unskilled person to determine a depth of a perforation formed during
   drilling without a separate measurement step.           Accordingly, an auxiliary tool
                                                1

   referred to as a surgical guide is used to guide an accurate depth, position, and
   direction of a perforation.
            A conventional surgical guide is manufactured through the following process.
   First, a 3D image of an inside of an oral cavity of a person to be treated is acquired
 5 by computerized tomography (CT) scanning, and a 3D exterior image of the inside of
   the oral cavity of the person to be treated is acquired through oral scan.             Here,
   information related to a crown, a dental root inside the oral cavity, and a shape and
   bone density of an alveolar bone is included in the 3D image.           Exterior information
   related to shapes of a crown and gum inside the oral cavity is included in the 3D
10 exterior image.
            When each of the images is acquired, the two images are matched on the
   basis of a set point inside the oral cavity such as abnormality of a tooth.         Then, an
   implant placement plan is established through a matched result, and the surgical
   guide is manufactured according to the placement plan.
15          Here, the 3D exterior image is acquired by directly scanning the inside of the
   oral cavity of the person to be treated using an oral scanner, and there is a problem in
   that it is difficult to accurately acquire an image due to movement of soft tissues such
   as the tongue, the lips, and inner surfaces of cheeks.
             That is, because an accurate scanning task is difficult due to movement of the
20 tongue interfering with a scanning path of the oral scanner, a step of performing a
   correcting task for an acquired 3D exterior image is required, and time is required for
   the correcting task, there are problems in that an implant placement period increases
   and economic feasibility decreases.       Also, it is difficult for an operator to accurately
   check an inside of an oral cavity of a person to be treated due to the person to be
25 treated unconsciously moving his or her lips, a space and a path through which the
                                                  2

   oral scanner is moved are not sufficiently secured, and accuracy of an acquired
   image decreases.
           Furthermore, because a soft tissue such as buccal mucosa substantially
   surrounds and is adhered to an outer portion of gum, it is difficult for the oral scanner
 5 to be inserted thereinto, and an unnecessary image of soft tissues is included in the
   3D exterior image.     Consequently, it is difficult to utilize the 3D exterior image as
   data for image matching when an outer shape of the soft tissue is included in the 3D
   exterior image, and there is a problem of causing an inconvenience to a person to be
   treated due to repeated oral scans.
10         Further, because a retracting tool capable of holding each of the soft tissues to
   prevent movement of the tongue and the lips is separately disposed, there are
   problems in that it is difficult for an operator to operate and the scanning task
   efficiency decreases due to requiring an assistant operator.
           The 3D exterior image can be acquired when manufacturing dentures of a
15 person to be treated who is edentulous or partially edentulous as well as when
   placing an implant.
           Specifically, a fixing groove portion formed inside an oral cavity so that a
   denture is fitted thereto is designed on the basis of an outer profile of gum included
   in the 3D exterior image.     Here, there is a problem in that design precision of the
20 fixing groove portion decreases when the outer shape of the soft tissue is included in
   the 3D exterior image.      Thus, there are problems in that reliability of masticatory
   efficiency decreases due to a manufactured denture being unable to be accurately
   installed inside an oral cavity of a person to be treated, and an inconvenience of the
   person to be treated increases due to pain in the gum during occlusion.
25   [Disclosure]
                                               3

                                                    4
It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate, one or
more of the above disadvantages, or at least provide a useful alternative.
In a first aspect, there is provided a dental retractor including a retracting base portion that
includes an inner retracting portion extending in an arch-shaped profile to surround an inner
portion of gum at any one side of an upper jaw and a lower jaw inside an oral cavity and having
a pressing holding portion formed at an outer peripheral surface so that a tongue is
accommodated therein and an outer retracting portion integrally extending from both ends of the
inner retracting portion and extending in an arch-shaped profile to surround an outer portion of
the gum, and a handle portion including a grip portion connected outward from the retracting
base portion, wherein the retracting base portion includes: a soft wire portion in which a three
dimensionally plastically deformed shape is maintained due to an external force; and an outer
skin portion formed of a synthetic resin material and configured to surround an outside of the
wire portion.
In a second aspect, there is provided a dental retractor including a retracting base portion
inserted between an outer portion of gum and an inner surface of lips so that soft tissues inside
an oral cavity are retracted and held outward and an entire outer surface of the gum is exposed
and extending in an arch-shaped profile corresponding to the outer portion of the gum, and a
handle portion extending outward in a radial direction from a connecting region spaced apart
from any one side of both ends with respect to a central portion of the retracting base portion,
wherein the retracting base portion includes: a soft wire portion in which a three-dimensionally
plastically deformed shape is maintained due to an external force; and an outer skin portion
formed of a synthetic resin material and configured to surround an outside of the wire portion.
A dental retractor according to one or more embodiments may provide the following
advantageous effects:
First, because a tongue is held and retracted by a pressing holding portion formed in an inner
retracting portion while lips and inner surfaces of cheeks are pressed and retracted outward at an
outer peripheral surface of an outer retracting portion, a state in which the entire gum is exposed
can be stably maintained. In this way, because interference due to soft tissues in an oral cavity
is minimized during scanning, a reliability of an acquired scanned image can be considerably
improved.

                                                  5
Second, because a retracting base portion includes a wire formed of a metal material that is
three-dimensionally plastically deformed due to an external force so that the shape of the
retracting base portion can be easily adjusted according to individual variations of people to be
treated and is covered by an outer skin portion formed of an opaque synthetic resin material, an
image defect due to scattering of light during scanning can be prevented.
Third, because a handle portion is eccentric to one side from a central portion of the retracting
base portion and extends outward in a diagonal direction to correspond to a natural movement
radius of an arm, an excessive bending of a wrist can be prevented when gripping the handle
portion, and because a space into which an oral scanner or the like is inserted is maximally
secured at a side opposite to the handle portion, convenience of task can be considerably
improved.
Fourth, because an alignment reference portion formed at the central portion of the retracting
base portion can be disposed at an accurate position by a simple method in which the alignment
reference portion is disposed to be aligned to a midline of an inside of an oral cavity, and
accurate midline information of a person to be treated is calculated on the basis of alignment
reference portion information included in a scanned image, reliability of an implant placement
plan can be considerably improved.
  [Description of Drawings]
Preferred embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described, by example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
FIG. 1 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a first embodiment of the present
invention.
FIG. 2 is an exemplary view illustrating a use state of the dental retractor according to the first
embodiment of the present invention.
FIG. 3 is a perspective view illustrating a dental retractor according to a second embodiment of
the present invention.
FIG. 4 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a third embodiment of the present
invention.

                                                  6
FIG. 5 is an exemplary view of a state of gripping the dental retractor according to the third
embodiment of the present invention.
FIG. 6 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a fourth embodiment of the present
invention.
FIG. 7 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a fifth embodiment of the present
invention.
FIG. 8 is an exemplary view illustrating an inside of an oral cavity in which the dental retractor
according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention is installed.
FIG. 9 is an exemplary view illustrating a state in which the inside of the oral cavity in which
the dental retractor according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention is installed is
scanned.
FIG. 10 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a sixth embodiment of the present
invention.
  [Modes of the Invention]

            FIG. 1 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a first embodiment of
   the present invention, and FIG. 2 is an exemplary view illustrating a use state of the
    dental retractor according to the first embodiment of the present invention.      In the
    drawings, preferably, a dotted line 1 (4 of FIG. 7) within a retracting base portion
 5 may be understood as a marking of an entire outer profile of gum.       Also, preferably,
    an outer portion la (4a of FIG. 7) of the gum 1 (4 of FIG. 7) may be understood as a
   portion corresponding to labial and buccal inner surfaces and an inner portion lb (4b
    of FIG. 7) of the gum 1 (4 of FIG. 7) may be understood as a portion corresponding
   to a lingual root or a palate 6 (see FIG. 7).
10          As illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2, a dental retractor 100 according to a first
    embodiment of the present invention includes a retracting base portion 10 and a
   handle portion 20.     Here, preferably, the dental retractor 100 may be understood as
    a device that has one side disposed inside an oral cavity and is used to hold and
   retract movement of soft tissues such as the tongue, the lips, and inner surfaces of
15  cheeks to acquire a clear exterior image of gum using an oral scanner.
            Specifically, the retracting base portion 10 is disposed to entirely surround
   the inner portion la and the outer portion lb of the gum 1 of at least one of an upper
   jaw and a lower jaw inside the oral cavity and preferably includes an inner retracting
   portion 11 and an outer retracting portion 12.
20          Here, preferably, the inner retracting portion 11 may extend in an arch-shaped
   profile to surround the inner portion la of the gum 1 and have a pressing holding
   portion 15 concavely formed at an outer peripheral surface so that a tongue 3 is
    accommodated therein.       Here, preferably, an outer peripheral surface 1lb of the
    inner retracting portion 11 may be understood as an outer surface of a lingual root.
25 Also, the outer retracting portion 12 integrally extends from both ends of the inner
                                                 7

   retracting portion 11 and is formed in an arch-shaped profile to surround the outer
   portion lb of the gum 1.
            Here, an accommodating space 13 that entirely surrounds and accommodates
   the inner portion la and the outer portion lb of the gum 1 is formed between the
 5 inner retracting portion 11 and the outer retracting portion 12.
            Specifically, preferably, the accommodating space 13 may be set to include a
   predetermined first interval gl so that an inner peripheral surface 11 a of the inner
   retracting portion 11 is spaced apart from the inner portion 1a of the gum 1. Also,
   because the accommodating space 13 is set to include a predetermined second
10 interval g2 so that an inner peripheral surface 12a of the outer retracting portion 12 is
   spaced apart from the outer portion lb of the gum 1, the accommodating space 13
   may be formed to be substantially larger than the profiles of the inner portion 1a and
   the outer portion lb of the gum 1.
            Further, the first interval gl and the second interval g2 may be set to cover
15 individual variations in gum profiles according to gender and age.         Consequently,
   because a single dental retractor can be compatibly used for various people to be
   treated, economic feasibility and convenience in use can be considerably improved.
   According to circumstances, the retracting base portion may be manufactured such
   that a plurality of standardized retracting base portions are manufactured to represent
20 each variation.
            Here, when the retracting base portion 10 is inserted into the oral cavity and
   is disposed so that the gum 1 is accommodated in the accommodating space 13, an
   outer surface of the tongue 3 is adhered to and held by the pressing holding portion
    15 and is retracted toward a distal side inside the oral cavity.      Also, because an
25 outer peripheral surface 12b of the outer retracting portion 12 presses and retracts
                                                8

   lips 2 and inner surfaces of cheeks outward, the lips 2 and the inner surfaces of the
   cheeks are spaced apart from the outer portion lb of the gum 1.
            Consequently, a sufficient space in which the oral scanner may be moved can
   be secured inside the oral cavity, and deviation of the oral scanner from the scanning
 5 path due to interference can be prevented even when a person to be treated
   unconsciously moves his or her lips or tongue.            Because the soft tissue is
   substantially spaced apart from the inner portion la and the outer portion lb of the
   gum 1, the entire outer shape of the gum 1 is more clearly exposed.     In this way, an
   operator can visually clearly recognize the inside of the oral cavity of the person to
10 be treated and acquire an accurate scanned image using the oral scanner, and
   reliability of the acquired scanned image can be improved.
            Here, when the retracting base portion 10 is disposed inside the oral cavity,
   the tongue 3 may be retracted toward the distal side of the oral cavity while the lips
   and the cheeks are pressed and retracted outward from the oral cavity.       Therefore,
15 because the soft tissues whose retraction directions are different are entirely spaced
   apart from the inner portion la and the outer portion lb of the gum 1 using a single
   tool, convenience of operation can be considerably improved.        Further, even in a
   case in which the amount of gum, which is soft tissue, is large as in a person to be
   treated who lost most teeth and is edentulous or partially edentulous, because the
20 retracting base portion 10 presses and fixes the gum 1, the outer shape of the gum
   can be more clearly exposed.
            Preferably, the handle portion 20 may extend outward from the retracting
   base portion 10 and include a grip portion 22.    Here, preferably, the grip portion 22
   may be connected outward from an extending bent portion 21 and extend in a length
25 that facilitates gripping.
                                               9

            Specifically, preferably, the extending bent portion 21 may be disposed to
   connect an outer end of the retracting base portion 10 and the grip portion 22 with an
   upward slope.     Here, an outer end of the outer retracting portion 12 is a portion at
   which the outer retracting portion 12 is convexly round outward and may be
 5 preferably understood as a central portion corresponding to a labial side of the oral
   cavity.
            Consequently, the retracting base portion 10 and the grip portion 22 are
   connected to be substantially stepped.     In this way, a pressing force transmitted to
   the dental retractor 100 may be evenly applied corresponding to a lower end side
10 profile of the gum 1 formed more inward than an upper surface of the lips 2.       Here,
   preferably, the lower end side of the gum may be understood as a connecting portion
   between the inner portion la of the gum la and the tongue 3 and a connecting
   portion between the outer portion lb of the gum 1 and the lips 2.
            Here, the extending bent portion 21 may be disposed as a pair, and the pair of
15 extending bent portions 21 may be spaced a predetermined interval from each other
   and be symmetrical to each other.      Further, the pair of extending bent portions 21
   may be connected to left and right canine teeth or first premolar teeth at any one of
   the upper jaw and the lower jaw.      Accordingly, when lower surfaces of the pair of
   extending bent portions 21 are adhered to the upper surface of the lips 2 while the
20 retracting base portion 10 is inserted into the oral cavity, the retracting base portion
    10 is pressed toward a lower end of the gum 1.        Then, when the soft tissues are
   retracted while in contact with the outer peripheral surfaces of the inner retracting
   portion 11 and the outer retracting portion 12, the inner portion la and the outer
   portion lb of the gum 1 may be clearly exposed, and a sufficient space in which the
25 oral scanner may be moved can be secured.        Further, the lips 2 may be pressed and
                                              10

   retracted outward from the oral cavity corresponding to inclined lower surfaces of
   the pair of extending bent portions 21.      Accordingly, because the inner surface of
   the lips 2 is spaced apart from the outer portion lb of the gum 1 and movement of the
   lips 2 is restricted, interference due to the lips 2 may be minimized in the scanning
 5 process.
           Here, although the extending bent portions 21 may be integrally disposed and
   connected, the pair of extending bent portions 21 may be spaced apart from each
   other corresponding to an interval between the left and right canine teeth or the first
   premolar teeth so that the lips 2 are pressed to be at a uniform interval.    Therefore,
10 the anterior teeth side lips as well as the canine teeth and the premolar teeth may be
   entirely spaced apart from the outer portion lb of the gum 1, and interference with
   the oral scanner due to movement of the lips 2 can be prevented.       Also, because an
   unnecessary image of lips is not included in the scanned image, accuracy of the
   scanned image can be further improved.
15         Further, the extending bent portions 21 may be inclined upward at a
   predetermined angle with the outer retracting portion 12 while the grip portion 22 is
   formed to be inclined downward at a predetermined angle with the extending bent
   portions 21.     Consequently, the outer retracting portion 12 and the grip portion 22
   may be disposed in directions substantially corresponding to each other and be
20 formed to be stepped by the extending bent portions 21.      In this way, by preventing
   an opening of the oral cavity from being occluded by the grip portion 22, the
   scanning path using the oral scanner can be stably secured.
           When the operator presses the dental retractor 100 toward the inner surface of
   the oral cavity while gripping the grip portion 22, the lower surface of the retracting
25 base portion 10 may be adhered to the lower end side of the gum 1 and pressed.
                                               11

   Consequently, the tongue 3 is pressed toward the distal side by the inner retracting
   portion 11, and the lips 2 and the cheeks are pressed outward from the oral cavity by
   the outer retracting portion 12 while the inner surface of the oral cavity is pressed.
            In this way, because the oral scanner is stably moved inside the oral cavity as
 5 movements of the soft tissues inside the oral cavity are entirely prevented, the
   reliability of the scanned image can be considerably improved.            Even when a
   marker (not illustrated) is attached as a reference for image matching at an outer
   surface of the gum 1, separation due to movement of the soft tissues inside the oral
   cavity may be prevented.     Consequently, accuracy of an implant placement plan can
10 be considerably improved by accurate image matching between a CT image obtained
   by CT scanning and the scanned image.
            Here,   outer  ends   of the    outer  retracting  portion   are   disconnected
   corresponding to an interval between the pair of extending bent portions, and ends of
   the pair of extending bent portions may respectively extend from the disconnected
15 ends of the outer ends of the outer retracting portion.         Accordingly, when an
   interval between opposite sides of the grip portion narrows due to a force of grasping
   the grip portion integrally extending from the ends of the extending bent portions, an
   interval between the extending bent portions and an interval between the both
   disconnected ends of the outer retracting portion may also narrow.        Consequently,
20 an interval between the outer portion of the gum and the inner peripheral surface of
   the outer retracting portion may be elastically adjusted by the grasping force of the
   operator.    Further, the extending bent portions may integrally be bent and extend
   from the both disconnected ends of the outer retracting portion, and the handle
   portion and the retracting base portion may be separately disposed such that ends of
                                              12

   the extending bent portions are connected to the outer ends of the outer retracting
   portion.
            Preferably, both ends of each of the inner retracting portion 11 and the outer
   retracting portion 12 may be integrally connected by a connecting portion 14.        That
 5  is, when it is said that the outer retracting portion 12 integrally extends from both
    ends of the inner retracting portion 11, preferably, it may be understood that the outer
   retracting portion 12 and the inner retracting portion 11 are integrally connected by
   the connecting portion 14.     Consequently, preferably, the inner retracting portion 11,
   the connecting portion 14, and the outer retracting portion 12 may be understood as
10 being formed of substantially a single wire and being distinguished depending on
    functions thereof.
            Specifically, preferably, the connecting portion 14 may be formed to be
    convexly round corresponding to outer sides of both ends of the retracting base
   portion 10, preferably, a retromolar trigone profile.     The connecting portion 14 may
15 be bent to be inclined upward to face outer surfaces of the extending bent portions 21.
    Consequently, a state in which an outer portion cI of the other side gum is seated at
   the end of the connecting portion 14 that is round outward and the upper and lower
   jaws are spaced apart may be supported while the lower surface of the retracting base
   portion 10 may be stably disposed without being interfered by a profile inside the
20  oral cavity.   In this way, because the upper and lower jaws of the person to be
   treated are prevented from being arbitrarily occluded in the process in which the
    inside of the oral cavity is scanned, the scanning process can be more stably
   performed, and clarity of the acquired scanned image can be improved.
            Preferably, the retracting base portion 10 may include a soft wire portion 10a
25  in which a three-dimensionally plastically deformed shape is maintained due to an
                                               13

   external force and an outer skin portion 10b formed of a synthetic resin material and
   configured to surround an outside of the wire portion 10a.
           Specifically, the wire portion 10a is formed corresponding to the arch-shaped
   profile in which the accommodating space 13 is formed so that the inner retracting
 5 portion 11, the outer retracting portion 12, and the connecting portion 14 entirely
   surrounds the inner portion la and the outer portion lb of the gum 1. Here, the wire
   portion 10a may be formed of a material that is easy to three-dimensionally deform
   due to an external force to correspond to individual variations of people to be treated
   and, once the deformation is completed, is prevented from deformation until an
10 additional external force is applied.    For example, the wire portion 10a may be
   formed of a wire formed of a metal material that can be bent or unfolded due to an
   external force.    Consequently, because the interval between the inner retracting
   portion 11 and the outer retracting portion 12 or an angle of the connecting portion
    14 can be immediately and elastically changed corresponding to various oral
15 environments of people to be treated, usability and economic feasibility can be
   improved.
           An outside of the wire portion 10a may be covered by the outer skin portion
    10b.   Here, the outer skin portion 10b may be formed of a synthetic resin material
   such as silicon and polyethylene (PE) that may be elastically deformed together with
20 plastic deformation of the wire portion 10a and may be used in a medical instrument.
   Preferably, the outer skin portion lOb may be formed of an opaque material by which
   the wire portion 10a formed of a metal material may be substantially shielded.
   Consequently, scattering of light due to the wire portion 10a can be prevented during
   the scanning, and discomfort and resistance of the person to be treated when the wire
                                              14

   portion 10a comes into contact with the inside of the oral cavity of the person to be
   treated can be minimized.
            Like the retracting base portion 10, the handle portion 20 may also include an
   outer skin portion formed of a synthetic resin material configured to cover an outside
 5 of a wire portion formed of a metal material.        Here, preferably, the wire portion
   constituting the handle portion 20 may be formed of a stiff material which is
   substantially not deformed even by a pressing force for retracting the soft tissues.
   That is, because the retracting base portion 10 is deformable due to an external force
   and the handle portion 20 has a strength capable of supporting the external force, a
10 retracting force by pressing the soft tissues can be considerably improved.
            Here, in a state in which the wire portion at the retracting base portion and the
   wire portion at the handle portion are formed of separate metal wires having different
   stiffness and connecting portions thereof are welded to or engaged with each other,
   the outer skin portion may integrally cover outer surfaces of the wire portions.
15 Alternatively, the retracting base portion and the handle portion may be separately
   manufactured so that each of the retracting base portion and the handle portion
   includes a wire portion and an outer skin portion, and connecting portions thereof
   may be welded, attached and engaged.         Further, a plurality of wires formed of the
   same metal material may overlap in each of the wire portion of the retracting base
20 portion and the wire portion of the handle portion, and strengths of the wire portions
   may be adjusted by varying a thickness at which the wires overlap.
            FIG. 3 is a perspective view illustrating a dental retractor according to a
   second embodiment of the present invention.        In the present embodiment, because
   fundamental configurations except a handle portion 220 are the same as in the above
                                               15

   described first embodiment, detailed descriptions of overlapping configurations will
   be omitted.
           As illustrated in FIG. 3, a pressing support portion 223 configured to connect
   opposite sides of a grip portion 222 by a predetermined width so that an operator's
 5 fingers are supported when the operator grips the handle portion 220 may be formed.
   Here, the pressing support portion 223 may be connected in the shape of a concave
   groove between opposite sides of the grip portion 222 in a direction in which the
   operator's pressing force is applied.
           For example, the handle portion 220 may be gripped in a state in which the
10 operator's thumb is seated on the concave groove of the pressing support portion 223
   and the operator's forefinger is supported at a convex outer surface (lower surface) of
   the pressing support portion 223.     When a force is applied in a state in which the
   handle portion 220 is gripped as above, because a state in which the soft tissues
   inside the oral cavity are retracted using a dental retractor 200 by the operator is
15 stably maintained, the scanning task can be promptly and accurately performed.
           A guide portion configured to guide a scanning path of the oral scanner may
   be formed in the inner retracting portion.    Here, the guide portion may be formed as
   an arch-shaped groove corresponding to the profile of the inner retracting portion so
   that an end of the oral scanner is locked and held.      That is, when the oral scanner
20 moves along the guide portion, because a distortion between scanned images can be
   minimized, an image correcting task can be facilitated, and an amount of time
   required for the task can be shortened.
           FIG. 4 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a third embodiment of
   the present invention, and FIG. 5 is an exemplary view of a state of gripping the
25 dental retractor according to the third embodiment of the present invention.      In the
                                              16

   present embodiment, because fundamental configurations except a handle portion
   320 are the same as in the above-described first embodiment, detailed descriptions of
   overlapping configurations will be omitted.
            As illustrated in FIGS. 4 and 5, the handle portion 320 may eccentrically
 5 extend from a connecting region a (hatching portion) spaced apart from any one side
   of both ends 31 Od with respect to a central portion 31 Oc of a retracting base portion
   310.    Here, the handle portion 320 may include a grip portion 322 stepped upward
   from the retracting base portion 310.
            Here, preferably, the both ends 31 Od of the retracting base portion 310 may
10 be understood as portions corresponding to a connecting portion 314.           When it is
   said that the handle portion 320 eccentrically extends, preferably, it may be
   understood that the handle portion 320 extends from a region biased to any one side
   of the both ends 310d from the central portion 310c of the retracting base portion 310.
            Specifically, preferably, the connecting region a may be formed between any
15 one end of the both ends 31 Od of the retracting base portion 310 and the central
   portion 31 Oc and may be formed at a portion corresponding to a canine tooth and a
   premolar tooth at a left side or a right side.
            That is, because the handle portion 320 is disposed to be eccentric toward the
   left side or the right side with respect to the midline of the inside of the oral cavity, a
20 relatively large space into which a dental instrument or the like may be inserted is
   formed at the other side of the handle portion 320 inside the oral cavity.     In this way,
   because a handling radius of the oral scanner and the dental instrument is enlarged,
   the convenience of task can be considerably improved.         Also, because interference
   with the handle portion 320 is minimized during a task of handling the oral scanner
25 and the dental instrument, convenience of task can be further improved.
                                                17

           Here, an outer retracting portion 312 is formed in an arch shape having a
   predetermined radius value corresponding to the outer portion lb of the gum 1.
   Then, the handle portion 320 may extend in a direction e2 that vertically intersects an
   arch-shaped    extending   direction   el   of the   outer  retracting   portion   312.
 5 Consequently, the handle portion 320 may extend outward in a diagonal direction
   from the retracting base portion 310 corresponding to a natural movement radius of
   both arms of the operator.    In this way, because an excessive bending of a wrist is
   prevented when gripping the handle portion 320, a fatigue degree during the
   scanning can be decreased, and convenience of task can be considerably improved.
10         Further, a pressing support extension 321 that is gradient upward from the
   connecting region a may be disposed at one end 320a at which the handle portion
   320 is connected to the retracting base portion 310.       Here, the pressing support
   extension 321 may be formed to be convexly round toward an upper surface so that a
   finger placed above, e.g., a thumb fl, is pressed and supported when the handle
15 portion 320 is gripped.   Also, the grip portion 322 may be connected outward from
   the pressing support extension 321 and have a support groove portion 322a that is
   concave toward a lower surface so that a finger placed below, e.g., a forefinger f2, is
   seated and supported when the handle portion 320 is gripped.      Here, preferably, the
   support groove portion 322a may be understood as an opposite surface (lower
20 surface) of the pressing support extension 321 that protrudes to be substantially
   convex upward.
           Further, when the handle portion 320 is gripped, the support groove portion
   322a concavely formed at the lower surface of the grip portion 322 is seated and
   supported at the upper surface side of the forefinger f2.      Simultaneously, as the
25 thumb fl is pressed and supported at the upper surface of the pressing support
                                             18

   extension 321 that protrudes convexly at an opposite surface of the support groove
   portion 322a, the handle portion 320 may be firmly clamped and fixed between the
   fingers fl and f2.     Consequently, because movement or a position change of a
   dental tractor 300 is minimized while the operator grips the handle portion 320, a
 5 state in which the soft tissues are retracted and held can be stably maintained.    In
   this way, a scanned image can be promptly and clearly acquired in the state in which
   the soft tissues are retracted and held, and reliability of the acquired image can be
   improved.
            When the convexly protruding upper surface of the pressing support
10 extension 321 is pressed and supported by the thumb fl in a state in which the
   support groove portion 322a is seated and supported at the forefinger f2, the
   retracting base portion 310 may be stably pressed toward the inside of the oral cavity
   of the person to be treated due to the leverage effect.      In this way, because soft
   tissues of gum whose image is desired to be scanned may be easily retracted with
15 only a minimal pressing force when the dental retractor 300 is gripped, convenience
   of operation can be considerably improved.         Further, because a pressing force
   applied during handing of the operator is intensively applied to the retracting base
   portion 310 as the pressing support extension 321 protrudes convexly toward the
   upper surface, retraction stability using the dental retractor 300 can be further
20 improved.
            A support guide surface 323 expanding in both directions and having a
   predetermined area to be adhered to and supported at a palm of the operator when the
   handle portion 320 is gripped may be further formed at an end of the grip portion 322.
   Consequently, because the handle portion 320 substantially has a shape that naturally
25 corresponds to a profile of a fisted hand when gripped, a grip feeling can be
                                              19

   considerably improved.     Because a state in which the handle portion 320 is gripped
   is more stably maintained, the position of the retracting base portion 310 may be
   firmly fixed.
           According to circumstances, an embossed non-slip portion (not illustrated)
 5 may be further formed at the pressing support extension 321, the support groove
   portion 322a, and the support guide surface 323 to prevent fingers and a palm from
   sliding when the handle portion 320 is gripped.
           FIG. 6 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a fourth embodiment
   of the present invention.       In the present embodiment, because fundamental
10 configurations except holding portions 416 and holding groove portions 426 are the
   same as in the above-described third embodiment, detailed descriptions               of
   overlapping configurations will be omitted.
           As illustrated in FIG. 6, a handle portion 420 may be configured to be
   selectively attached to or detached from a retracting base portion 410.   For this, the
15 holding portions 416 and the holding groove portions 426 to which the holding
   portions 416 are fitted may be respectively formed at one end of the handle portion
   420 and a side of an outer retracting portion 412 facing the one end.     Here, one or
   more non-continuous alignment portions may be formed at the holding portions 416
   and the holding groove portions 426 to prevent rotation and movement in a state in
20 which the holding portions 416 and the holding groove portions 426 are fitted to and
   engaged with each other.
           Specifically, the holding portions 416 may be symmetrically disposed at both
   sides with respect to a central portion of the outer retracting portion 412.       The
   holding groove protrusions 426 may be formed in the shape of a groove to which an
25 outer surface of the holding portion 416 is fitted.     Accordingly, after the handle
                                              20

   portion 420 is separated, the handle portion 420 can be operated by the operator's
   right hand or left hand just by fitting the handle portion 420 into the holding portion
   416 formed at one side or the other side of the outer retracting portion 412.    In this
   way, because a limitation of a gripping direction is minimized even when the handle
 5 portion 420 eccentrically extends from a central portion of the retracting base portion
   410, usability can be considerably improved.
            Here, because rotation or movement is limited by outer surface and inner
   surface profiles of the holding portion 416 and the holding groove portion 426 and
   the non-continuous alignment portions formed as steps that non-continuously extend,
10 the engaging angle and position of the handle portion 420 may be fixed.        Here, the
   holding portion 416 and the holding groove portion 426 may be formed in a
   polygonal shape in which continuing directions of each surface is different, and
   according to circumstances, the holding portion 416 and the holding groove portion
   426 may be formed as D-cut portions or as separate protrusions/grooves.         Further,
15 the holding portions may be symmetrically formed partially at both sides of the outer
   retracting portion or may be formed at an entire region of a central portion and both
   sides of the outer retracting portion, and the holding portion may be formed at one
   end of the handle portion.     According to circumstances, a holding member in the
   shape of forceps or a clamp may be disposed at one end of the handle portion, and
20 the handle portion may be clamped and fixed to the retracting base portion by the
   holding member.
            FIG. 7 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a fifth embodiment of
   the present invention, FIG. 8 is an exemplary view illustrating an inside of an oral
   cavity in which the dental retractor according to the fifth embodiment of the present
25 invention is installed, and FIG. 9 is an exemplary view illustrating a state in which
                                               21

   the inside of the oral cavity in which the dental retractor according to the fifth
   embodiment of the present invention is installed is scanned.              In the present
   embodiment, because fundamental configurations except a retracting base portion
   510 are the same as in the above-described third embodiment, detailed descriptions
 5 of overlapping configurations will be omitted.       Here, preferably, an upper end of a
   gum 4 which will be described below may be understood as an alveolar portion in
   which a natural tooth or an artificial tooth are substantially placed.            Further,
   preferably, the gum 4 in the present embodiment may be understood as an upper jaw,
   substantially.
10          As illustrated in FIGS. 7 to 9, a retracting base portion 510 may be inserted
   between the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 and an inner surface of lips 5 so that the
   soft tissues are retracted and held outward.    When the retracting base portion 510 is
   pressed toward a lower end 4c of the gum 4 while being inserted, the soft tissues may
   be separated from the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 corresponding to a thickness of
15 the retracting base portion 510, and the soft tissues may be spaced apart from the
   outer portion 4a of the gum 4 as an external force is applied outward from the oral
   cavity.
            That is, as an inner peripheral surface 51 lb of the retracting base portion 510
   is spaced apart from the outer portion 4a of the gum 4, the soft tissues adhered to an
20 outer peripheral surface 511 a of the retracting base portion 510 may be spaced apart
   and separated from the gum 4.       Accordingly, an entire outer shape of the gum 4 up
   to mesial and distal side thereof can be clearly exposed at a time, and accuracy of a
   scanned image acquired by scanning the gum 4 can be improved.
            Here, the retracting base portion 510 may be a wire body that is round
25 corresponding to an entire arch-shaped profile of the outer portion 4a from the mesial
                                                22

   side corresponding to an anterior teeth side of the gum 4 to a distal side 4d
   corresponding to a molar teeth side at both sides.            Consequently, when the
   retracting base portion 510 is inserted into the oral cavity, labial soft tissues
   corresponding to the anterior teeth side and distal soft tissues corresponding to the
 5 molar teeth side may be simultaneously spaced apart and separated from the outer
   portion 4a of the gum 4.      In this way, because the entire outer shape of the gum 4
   can be scanned at a time in a state in which an oral scanner s is inserted into the oral
   cavity of the person to be treated, convenience of task can be considerably improved.
   Furthermore, because a distortion between acquired scanned images can be
10 minimized, reliability of information can be improved, and because time and a
   process required for correcting a distorted image can be minimized, convenience of
   task can be improved.
            Because the retracting base portion 510 is formed as the wire body
   substantially having a small cross-sectional diameter, a portion occluded by the outer
15 portion 4a of the gum 4 may be minimized by the retracting base portion 510 while
   the soft tissues are firmly retracted.   Accordingly, because the outer portion 4a of
   the gum 4, that is, a substantial outer surface of a maxillary process, is entirely
   exposed, a scanning area through the oral scanner s may be maximally secured.         In
   this way, an amount of information that can be provided from an acquired scanned
20 image can be maximally calculated, and reliability of information can also be
   considerably improved.
            Here, an alignment reference portion 518 configured to guide an aligned
   arrangement corresponding to a midline inside the oral cavity may be disposed at a
   central portion of the retracting base portion 510.
                                               23

            Specifically, when the alignment          reference  portion  518   is disposed
   corresponding to the midline, the inner peripheral surface 51 lb of the retracting base
   portion 510 may be disposed to be spaced apart from the entire outer portion 4a of
   the gum 4 by an equal interval.      In this way, because the outer portion 4a of the gum
 5 4 is entirely exposed and thus the scanning area is maximally secured, precision and
   reliability of the scanned image can be considerably improved.          Because an outer
   surface of the retracting base portion 510 is scanned together with the gum 4, image
   information in a state in which the alignment reference portion 518 is disposed
   corresponding to the midline may be included in the scanned image.          Consequently,
10 even in a case in which a midline inside the oral cavity is difficult to be calculated as
   in a person to be treated who is edentulous or partially edentulous, information on the
   midline can be easily calculated on the basis of an image of the alignment reference
   portion 518 included in the scanned image.
            Here, the alignment reference portion 518 may be disposed to be aligned
15 corresponding to a labial frenulum 5a.
            Specifically, the labial frenulum 5a, which is a crease tissue that connects the
   outer portion 4a of the gum 4 and the inner surface of the lips 5, is formed along the
   midline, and limits a movement range of the lips 5 is formed at the lower end 4c of
   the gum 4.      That is, the alignment reference portion 518 may be disposed to be
20 aligned with respect to the labial frenulum 5a even in a case of a person to be treated
   who is edentulous or partially edentulous.       Consequently, because accurate midline
   position information is calculated from a scanned image acquired by scanning the
   inside of the oral cavity in which a dental retractor 500 is installed, precision of an
   implant placement plan established on the basis of the midline position information
25 can be considerably improved.
                                                 24

           Here, the alignment reference portion 518 may be formed by one surface of
   the retracting base portion 510 corresponding to the lower end 4c of the gum 4 being
   concavely recessed.
            Specifically, when the retracting base portion 510 is inserted between the
 5 outer portion 4a of the gum 4, the inner surface of the lips 5, and an inner surface 5b
   of cheeks, the retracting base portion 510 is disposed so that the one surface
   corresponds to the lower end 4c of the gum 4.      Here, the retracting base portion 510
   can be accurately disposed to be aligned corresponding to the midline just by a
   simple method in which the labial frenulum 5a is inserted into a concave inner space
10 518b of the alignment reference portion 518.
            That is, the retracting base portion 510 may be easily and accurately aligned
   corresponding to the midline inside the oral cavity with respect to the labial frenulum
   5a.   When the retracting base portion 510 is pressed toward the lower end 4c of the
   gum 4, the inner peripheral surface 511b of the retracting base portion 510 is spaced
15 apart from the outer portion 4a of the gum 4.      In this way, soft tissues at the inner
   surface of the lips 5 and the inner surface 5b of the cheeks may be spaced apart from
   the outer portion 4a of the gum 4, and the gum 4 may be entirely exposed.        Further,
   because left-right movement of the retracting base portion 510 may be held in a state
   in which the labial frenulum 5a is inserted into the inner space 518b of the alignment
20 reference portion 518, the position of the retracting base portion 510 can be
   substantially fixed without a separate fixer during the scanning task.
           Alternatively, when remaining teeth at the anterior teeth side are present in
   the gum 4 of the person to be treated, the alignment reference portion 518 may be
   disposed corresponding to a teeth arrangement surface between a pair of anterior
25 teeth corresponding to the midline.        Here, as a protrusion 518c that is convex
                                               25

   toward the other surface of the alignment reference portion 518 is disposed to be
   aligned to the teeth arrangement surface between the pair of anterior teeth, the
   retracting base portion 510 may be accurately disposed corresponding to the midline.
            Further, a reference indicating portion 518a may be further included to
 5 surround in a circumferential direction of an outer peripheral surface at a central
   portion of the alignment reference portion 518.     That is, even when profiles of the
   concave inner surface 518b at the one surface and the protrusion 518c at the other
   surface of the alignment reference portion 518 are gently formed, the reference
   indicating portion 518a may be utilized as a clear reference index for the midline.
10          According to circumstances, the alignment reference portion may be formed
   by the one surface of the retracting base portion protruding convexly or may be
   marked just by the reference indicating portion at the central portion of the retracting
   base portion.    Further, the alignment reference portion may be formed in the shape
   of a concave groove or a convex protrusion as a whole in the circumferential
15 direction at the central portion of the retracting base portion.         The reference
   indicating portion may be formed in the shape of an arrow that narrows in a direction
   toward the one surface or the other surface of the retracting base portion and may be
   formed with various indicators that may be a clear reference index.
            A variable holding portion 517 in which a cross-sectional transverse width d3
20 gradually becomes narrower than a cross-sectional longitudinal width d2 toward a tip
   517a may be integrally formed with both ends of the retracting base portion 510.
   Here, the variable holding portion 517 may be selectively deformed due to an
   external force corresponding to profiles of both ends of the gum 4 extending in an
   arch shape.    Here, when it is said that the shape of the variable holding portion 517
25 is deformed, preferably, it may be understood that an interval between a pair of
                                               26

   variable holding portions 517 at the both ends of the retracting base portion 510, and
   an extension angle with the central portion, a curvature, or the like of the retracting
   base portion 510 are deformed due to an external force.
            Consequently, the interval between the inner peripheral surface 51 lb of the
 5 retracting base portion 510 and the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 may be elastically
   adjusted corresponding to various profiles of the gum 4 according to individual
   variations of people to be treated.
            Here, the central portion of the retracting base portion 510 is disposed so that
   the cross-sectional longitudinal width d2 and a cross-sectional transverse width dl
10 substantially correspond.     Consequently, because an arbitrary deformation of the
   retracting base portion 510 is prevented even when an external force is applied
   toward the retracting base portion 510 in a state in which a handle portion 520 is
   gripped by the operator, a state in which the soft tissues are retracted may be firmly
   supported.    The variable holding portion 517 may be formed to have a substantially
15 elliptical cross-section because the variable holding portion 517 is formed so that the
   cross-sectional   transverse width d3       gradually narrows toward the tip 517a.
   Consequently, the variable holding portion 517 may be easily inserted into a narrow
   gap at which the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 and the inner surface of the lips 5 are
   adhered.    Because the tip 517a of the variable holding portion 517 is formed to be
20 relatively thin, a feeling of irritation can be minimized when the dental retractor 500
   is inserted into the oral cavity, and discomfort of the person to be treated can be
   considerably decreased.     Here, the cross-sectional longitudinal width d2 is formed
   to substantially correspond to the cross-sectional longitudinal width d2 at the central
   portion of the retracting base portion 510 while the cross-sectional transverse width
25 d3 narrows toward the tip 517a of the variable holding portion 517.         Accordingly,
                                                27

   the separation interval between the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 and the soft tissues
   at the inner surface 5b of the cheeks can be maximized while an outer area that
   retracts and holds the soft tissues at the inner surface 5b of the cheeks is maintained.
            Here, the retracting base portion 510 may include a soft wire portion 510a
 5 whose shape is maintained in a three-dimensionally plastically deformed state
   corresponding to the profile of the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 due to an external
   force and an outer skin portion 510b formed of a synthetic resin material that
   surrounds an outside of the wire portion 510a.         That is, when it is said that the
   cross-sectional transverse width d3 at the tip of the variable holding portion 517 is
10 narrower than the cross-sectional longitudinal width d2, preferably, it may be
   understood that the cross-sectional transverse width d3 of both ends of the wire
   portion 51 Oa is formed in an elliptical shape that is narrower than the cross-sectional
   longitudinal width d2.      Here, because the wire portion 510a and the outer skin
   portion 510a correspond to the wire portion 10a (see FIG. 1) and the outer skin
15 portion 10b (see FIG. 1) of the first embodiment, detailed descriptions on materials
   and functions thereof will be omitted.
            Further, the tip 517a of the variable holding portion 517 may be formed to
   have a round outer surface.      Consequently, as the tip 517a of the variable holding
   portion 517 is smoothly inserted between the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 and the
20 inner surface of the lips 5 which are adhered to each other, an occurrence of pain or
   wound due to the soft tissues inside the oral cavity being scratched or pricked may be
   prevented.
            A retracting extension bent to be inclined toward the other surface of the
   retracting base portion 510 may be further included at the tip 517a of the variable
25 holding portion 517.      That is, buccal soft tissues, particularly, soft tissues at the
                                                28

   molar teeth side in which a distribution amount of soft tissues is relatively higher
   compared to the labial side may be pressed and retracted further toward the inside of
   the oral cavity from the lower end 4c of the gum 4 by the retracting extension.
   Consequently, because the entire outer shape of the gum 4 including the buccal and
 5 retromolar trigone outer portions as well as the labial outer portion is clearly exposed,
   precision and accuracy of the scanned image can be further improved.
           Here, an outer surface of the palate 6 that continues from the inner portion 4b
   of the gum 4 may be clearly exposed while the lips 5 at the maxillary side and the
   soft tissues of the lips 5 and the inner surface 5b of the cheeks are retracted to be
10 spaced apart from the outer portion 4a of the gum 4.      Consequently, an entire outer
   shape of the upper jaw may be precisely acquired even during manufacture of an
   implant in which information on an outer shape of the palate 6 is required as when
   designing and manufacturing maxillary dentures.             In this way, because a
   manufactured implant and the inside of the oral cavity of the person to be treated can
15 be fitted better, reliability of masticatory efficiency and satisfaction with use of the
   person to be treated can be considerably improved.
           A variable support extension 521 that is selectively deformed in a convex
   shape toward the other side surface of the handle portion 520 may be included at one
   end of the handle portion 520 so that the variable support extension 521 is pressed
20 and supported by a finger placed at the other surface of the handle portion 520 when
   the handle portion 520 is gripped by the operator.        Here, preferably, the variable
   support extension 521 may be understood as a portion corresponding to the pressing
   support extension 321 (see FIG. 5) of the third embodiment described above.
            That is, when the retracting base portion 510 is inserted between the outer
25 portion 4a of the gum 4 and the inner surface of the lips 5 in the state in which the
                                               29

   handle portion 520 is gripped by the operator, one surface of the variable support
   extension 521 is disposed at an outer surface of the lips 5 of the person to be treated.
   Consequently, when a convex outer surface at the other surface of the variable
   support extension 521 is pressed by the thumb in a state in which one surface of the
 5 variable support extension 521 is seated at the forefinger, the retracting base portion
   510 installed inside the oral cavity may be pressed toward the lower end 4c of the
   gum 4.     Also, when a retraction force of retracting outward from the oral cavity is
   applied, the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 and the inner surface of the lips 5 may be
   spaced apart.
10         Because the lips 5 are retracted outward from the oral cavity as the one
   surface of the variable support extension 521 is disposed to be adhered to the lips 5,
   the outer portion 4a of the gum 4 may be more clearly exposed.         Further, because
   movement of the lips 5 is prevented even when unconscious movement of the person
   to be operated occurs, interference with the lips 5 is prevented during movement of
15 the oral scanner s, and reliability of a scanned image acquired by scanning can be
   considerably improved.
           FIG. 10 is a plan view of a dental retractor according to a sixth embodiment
   of the present invention.       In the present embodiment, because fundamental
   configurations except an inner retracting portion 612 are the same as in the above
20 described fifth embodiment, detailed descriptions of overlapping configurations will
   be omitted.
           As illustrated in FIG. 10, an arch-shaped inner retracting portion 612
   corresponding to a profile of the inner portion of the gum 4 may be further included
   in a retracting base portion 610.   Here, both ends of the inner retracting portion 612
25 may be selectively engaged with both ends of the retracting base portion 610.
                                              30

           Specifically, the inner retracting portion 612 may be formed to have an inner
   peripheral surface corresponding to the inner portion of the gum 4 and a pressing
   holding portion 615 in which the tongue is accommodated and held formed at a
   concave outer peripheral surface.         An extending connecting portion 614 that
 5 surrounds a distal outer portion of the gum 4 and has an engaging portion 612d
   selectively engaged with the retracting base portion 610 may be formed at both ends
   of the inner retracting portion 612.
           When the inner retracting portion 612 is engaged with the retracting base
   portion 610, the tongue may be accommodated and held in the pressing holding
10 portion 615.    As the retracting base portion 610, the inner retracting portion 612,
   and the extending connecting portion 614 are entirely connected, an accommodating
   space in which the entire outer surface of the gum 4 is accommodated may be formed.
   That is, as the inner retracting portion 612 is selectively engaged, the tongue adjacent
   to the inner portion of the gum as well as the soft tissues adjacent to the outer portion
15 of the gum 4 may be simultaneously held.         Consequently, because a single dental
   retractor can be elastically applied to the upper jaw or the lower jaw just by a simple
   operation of attaching or detaching the inner retracting portion 612, convenience in
   use and economic feasibility can be considerably improved.
           Here, the retracting base portion 610 and an engaging portion 611 d and the
20 engaging portion 612d respectively formed at both ends of the inner retracting
   portion 612 may be formed in a structure in which a protrusion formed at one side is
   inserted into a groove formed at the opposite side.      Here, preferably, the both ends
   of the inner retracting portion 612 may be understood as a tip of the extension
   connecting portion 614.
                                               31

            Further, the both ends of the inner retracting portion 612 may be engaged to
   be disposed at the lower end of the gum 4 while the retracting base portion 610 and
   the both ends of the inner retracting portion 612 overlap each other.      Consequently,
   an external force applied so that the retracting base portion 610 is pressed toward the
 5 lower end of the gum 4 may be transmitted to press the both ends of the inner
   retracting portion 612.    In this way, as the both ends of the inner retracting portion
   612 are clamped and fixed between the lower end of the gum 4 and the both ends of
   the retracting base portion 610, an arbitrary separation of the inner retracting portion
   612 during the scanning task can be prevented.
10          The dental retractors 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, and 600 can be widely used for
   various dental treatments such as various implant placements and orthodontic
   treatments that require a clear scanned image of an inside of an oral cavity as well as
   for planning an implant placement.      Further, the dental retractors 100, 200, 300, 400,
   500, and 600 may also be used to retract and hold soft tissues such as the tongue and
15 the lips even during treatment of periodontal diseases in addition to a task of
   scanning an inside of an oral cavity.
     [Industrial Applicability]
             The present invention is applicable to a manufacturing industry of dental
   implant products.
                                               32

                                                   33
CLAIMS
 1.   A dental retractor comprising:
         a retracting base portion that includes an inner retracting portion extending in an arch
shaped profile to surround an inner portion of a gum at any one side of an upper jaw and a lower
jaw inside an oral cavity and having a pressing holding portion formed at an outer peripheral
surface so that a tongue is accommodated therein and an outer retracting portion integrally
extending from both ends of the inner retracting portion and extending in an arch-shaped profile
to surround an outer portion of the gum; and
         a handle portion including a grip portion connected outward from the retracting base
portion;
         wherein the retracting base portion includes: a soft wire portion in which a three
dimensionally plastically deformed shape is maintained due to an external force; and an outer
skin portion formed of a synthetic resin material and configured to surround an outside of the
wire portion.
2.     The dental retractor of claim 1, wherein:
         an accommodating space is formed between the inner retracting portion and the outer
retracting portion so that inner portion and the outer portion of the gum are accommodated
therein; and
         the accommodating space is set to include a predetermined first interval so that an inner
peripheral surface of the inner retracting portion is spaced apart from the inner portion of the
gum and a predetermined second interval so that an inner peripheral surface of the outer
retracting portion is spaced apart from the outer portion of the gum.
3.     The dental retractor of claim 1, wherein:
         the handle portion is connected from an outer end of the retracting base portion;
         the outer end of the retracting base portion and an end of the grip portion is connected by
an extending bent portion extending to be inclined upward, and the inner retracting portion and
the outer retracting portion are integrally connected by a connecting portion that is round
outward; and

                                                  34
         the connecting portion is bent upward to face an outer surface of the extending bent
portion so that an end supports a state in which an outer portion of the other side gum is seated
and upper and lower jaws are spaced apart.
4.     The dental retractor of claim 1, wherein
         the extending bent portion is disposed as a pair which are spaced a predetermined interval
from each other at an outer end of the outer retracting portion to retract lips outward, and the grip
portion is formed so that ends extending from the pair of extending bent portions are adjacent to
each other; and
         a pressing support portion configured to connect opposite sides of the grip portion by a
predetermined width so that fingers are supported during gripping.
5.     The dental retractor of claim 1, wherein the handle portion extends from a connecting
region spaced apart from any one side of both ends with respect to a central portion of the
retracting base portion, and the grip portion is formed to be stepped above the retracting base
portion.
6.     The dental retractor of claim 5, wherein the handle portion extends outward in a diagonal
direction from the connecting region to vertically intersect an arch-shaped extending direction of
the outer retracting portion.
7.     The dental retractor of claim 5, wherein:
         a pressing support extension that is gradient upward from the connecting region and
convexly round toward an upper surface so that a finger placed above is pressed and supported
when the handle portion is gripped is disposed at one end of the handle portion; and
         the grip portion extends outward from the pressing support extension and has a support
groove portion that is concave toward a lower surface so that a finger placed below is seated and
supported when the handle portion is gripped.
8.     The dental retractor of claim 5, further comprising, at an end of the grip portion, a support
guide surface expanding in both directions and having a predetermined area to be adhered to and
supported at a palm when the handle portion is gripped formed,

                                                    35
         wherein, to allow the handle portion to be selectively attached to or detached from the
retracting base portion, a holding portion including one or more non-continuous alignment
portions and a holding groove portion to which the holding portion is fitted are respectively
formed at one end of the handle portion and a side of the outer retracting portion opposite to the
one end.
9.     A dental retractor comprising:
         a retracting base portion inserted between an outer portion of a gum and an inner surface
of lips so that soft tissues inside an oral cavity are retracted and held outward and an entire outer
surface of the gum is exposed and extending in an arch-shaped profile corresponding to the outer
portion of the gum; and
         a handle portion extending outward in a radial direction from a connecting region spaced
apart from any one side of both ends with respect to a central portion of the retracting base
portion;
         wherein the retracting base portion includes: a soft wire portion in which a three
dimensionally plastically deformed shape is maintained due to an external force; and an outer
skin portion formed of a synthetic resin material and configured to surround an outside of the
wire portion.
10.    The dental retractor of claim 9, wherein:
         an alignment reference portion is included at the central portion of the retracting base
  portion to be disposed to be aligned corresponding to a midline of an inside of an oral cavity;
  and
         the alignment reference portion is formed by one surface of the retracting base portion
corresponding to a lower end of the gum being concavely recessed.
11.    The dental retractor of claim 9, wherein
         a variable holding portion in which a cross-sectional transverse width gradually becomes
narrower than a cross-sectional longitudinal width toward a tip and is selectively deformed due
to an external force corresponding to arch-shaped profiles of both ends of the gum is formed at
both ends of the retracting base portion; and
         the tip of the variable holding portion has a round outer surface.

                                                  36
12.   The dental retractor of claim 9, wherein:
        the handle portion extends outward in a diagonal direction from the connecting region to
vertically intersect an arch-shaped extending direction of the retracting base portion; and
        a variable support extension that is selectively deformed in a convex shape toward the
other side surface of the handle portion is included at one end of the handle portion so that the
variable support extension is pressed and supported by a finger placed at the other surface of the
handle portion when the handle portion is gripped.
                                         DIO Corporation
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

  <U+2721>Drawings
  <U+2721>Fig. 1
  <U+2721>Fig. 2
5
            39

  <U+2721>Fig. 3
  <U+2721>Fig. 4
5
          40

  <U+2721>Fig. 5
  <U+2721>Fig. 6
5
          41

  <U+2721>Fig. 7
  <U+2721>Fig. 8
5
          42

<U+2721>Fig. 9
        43

<U+2721>Fig. 10
         44

