       A COMPUTER SYSTEM AND A COMPUTER IMPLEMENTED METHOD FOR
     GENERATING PATIENT MEDICAL SUMMARY AND INITIATING A MEDICAL
                                       CONSULTATION
                                            Abstract
A computer implemented method for generating a medical summary from medical history of a
patient and initiating a medical consultation with a medical service provider based on a medical
summary. The method comprises the steps of connecting a first computing device associated
with the patient with a computer system, receiving a request for generating the medical
summary from the first computing device. The medical summary is generated by analysing the
answers of the patient provided to the computer system via the first computing device along
with a plurality of keywords. Further, one or more profiles are shortlisted from the plurality of
profiles associated with a plurality of medical service providers based on the plurality of
keywords and provided to the patient via the first computing device. Thereafter, the patient
provides selected profiles of the medical services providers to the computer system and the
computer system share the medical summary of the patient with the selected medical service
provider. The patient and the medical service provider communicate with each other by means
of a communication channel.
Figure 2

                               2/7
200
     CONNECTING A FIRST COMPUTING DEVICE ASSOCIATED WITH
              THE PATIENT WITH A COMPUTER SYSTEM
                                                             210
                                        1
      SELECTING A PRE-DETERMINED MODE OF COMMUNICATION
                                                            220
     RECEIVE A REQUEST FOR GENERATING A MEDICAL SUMMARY       r
                                                            230
    SENDING A PLURALITY OF QUESTIONS RELATED TO A MEDICAL
                     HISTORY OF THE PATIENT
                                                            240
               RECEIVING A PLURALITY OF ANSWERS
                                                             250
         RECOGNIZING A PLURALITY OF KEYWORDS FROM THE
                     PLURALITY OF ANSWERS                   260
     COMPARING THE PLURALITY OF KEYWORDS OF THE MEDICAL
             SUMMARY WITH A PLURALITY OF PROFILES           270
      PROVIDING ONE OR MORE PROFILES OF THE PLURALITY OF
                            PROFILES                        280
             RECEIVING A LIST OF SELECTED PROFILES
                                                            290
       SENDING THE MEDICAL SUMMARY OF THE PATIENT TO A
            PLURALITY OF SECOND COMPUTING DEVICES
                                                          2100

                                                     1
          A COMPUTER SYSTEM AND A COMPUTER IMPLEMENTED METHOD
         FOR GENERATING PATIENT MEDICAL SUMMARY AND INITIATING A
                                      MEDICAL CONSULTATION
    Technical Field
[001]   The present invention generally relates to medical consultation systems and in
particular to a computer system and a computer implemented method for generating patient
medical summary and initiating a medical consultation.
    Background
[002]   Healthcare is always one of the most important sectors of a country. Every person in
the world has a right to good health. The human right to health means that everyone has the
right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health., which also includes
access to all medical services etc. But it is not always possible to find a good doctor for different
types of health issues that a person is suffering from. Many a times, people ask their friends,
families and fellows to tell them about good doctors for a particular medical condition. With
the advancements in technology, now people can look up the internet for finding a suitable
doctor for a particular medical condition. They may book appointments and then go to the
clinics and hospitals where the doctor practices.
[003]   A problem with the existing methods are that families/friends/fellows recommend a
doctor based on their experiences but the case of every person is a different one. They may not
understand a patient's medical history and what complications may come up in future. After
that, when a patient visits a doctor he has to book an appointment and wait for his turn to have
a face-to-face meeting with doctor. This causes a lot if inconvenience especially if a patient's
condition is degrading. Besides that, searching on the internet also has problems such as every
hospital or clinic promotes their own doctors. So there is always a chance that of better doctors
being available but the patient couldn't find them. Every time a patient wants to search for a
doctor or visit a doctor, he has to share his medical history and then the doctor creates a medical
summary. This process is repetitive as well as time consuming. There is no single platform
where a patient can have access to the best doctors in every field and he/she may check the
background, experience of doctors and ratings of doctors before selecting.

[004] It is therefore desirable to have a computer system and a computer implemented method
for finding a medical service provider for a patient based on an automatically generated medical
summary that does not suffer from above mentioned deficiencies.
[005]    Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words
"comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element
or group of steps or elements.
[006]     Any one of the terms: "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used
herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow
the term, but not excluding others.
[007]     Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no way
be considered as an admission that such background art is prior art nor that such background
art is widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field in Australia
or worldwide.
     Summary
[008] According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a computer implemented
method for generating a medical summary from medical history of a patient and initiating a
medical consultation with a medical service provider based on a medical summary. The method
comprises the steps of connecting a first computing device associated with the patient with a
computer system, selecting a pre-detennined mode of communication with the computer
system by the first computing device, receiving a request for generating the medical summary
from the first computing device, sending a plurality of questions related to the medical history
of the patient to the first computing device, recording a plurality of answers in response to the
respective plurality of questions from the first computing device, recognizing a plurality of
keywords from the plurality of answers and generating the medical summary of the patient
including the plurality of keywords, comparing the plurality of keywords of the medical
summary with a plurality of profiles associated with a plurality of medical service providers,
stored in a data repository, providing one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles to the first
computing device based on results of the comparison, receiving a list of selected profiles from
the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles, associated with the selected medical service
provider from the first computing device and sending the medical summary of the patient to a

                                                    3
plurality of second computing devices associated with the each of the selected medical service
providers.
[009] It is an advantage of the invention that it provides an option to the patient to consult a
medical service provider remotely. The invention enables a patient to get medical consultation
without moving out of his/her house and inconvenience occur due to travel. Further, the
invention assists the patient to provide details of medical history and current symptoms via text
and/or audio and/or audio-visual. This eases out the process of sharing medical history as the
patient doesn't necessarily has to type. Also, the invention has provision to generate the
medical summary automatically from the plurality of answers that the patient provides related
to medical history and present state. Based on the summary, the list of best medical service
providers are provided to the patient preventing hassle of finding an appropriate medical
service provider on his/her own. Additionally, the patient may thoroughly go through the
profiles of the shortlisted medical service providers to his/her satisfaction before selecting one.
[010]    The computer implemented method may further comprise a step of establishing a
communication channel between the first computing device and a plurality of second
computing devices associated with the selected medical service provider.
[011]    The communication channel may be configured to enable communication between the
patient and each of the selected medical service provider via text message, voice call and/or
video call.
[012]    The step of connecting further comprising a step of prompting the first computing
device to select a pre-determined mode of communication. Preferably, the pre-determined
mode of communication is text mode, voice mode, video mode.
[013]    The medical history of the patient may comprise, but is not limited to, personal data,
information of one or more medical problems to be consulted, symptoms of the current medical
problems, past medical problems, ongoing medications, duration of the current medical
problems, duration of the past medical problems and precautions prescribed to the patient.
[014]    The plurality of answers is received in a form of a text, an audio or an audio-visual from
the first computing device.
[015]    The step of recognizing the plurality of keywords may be performed using a speech
recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the audio or the audio
visual.

                                                    4
[016]    The step of recognizing the plurality of keywords may be performed using a text
recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the text.
[017]    The plurality of keywords may be selected from a group comprising, but not limited to,
personal data of the patient, names of the medical problems, names of the medication
associated with the respective medical problems and durations of the medical problems.
[018]    Each of the plurality of profiles associated with each of the plurality of medical service
providers comprises, but not limited to, name, age, location, specialization, work experience,
contact details, achievements and rating of the medical service provider.
[019]    According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer system for
generating a medical summary from medical history of a patient and initiating a medical
consultation with a medical service provider based on a medical summary. The computer
system comprises a memory unit configured to store machine-readable instructions and a
processor operably connected with the memory unit. The processor obtaining the machine
readable instructions from the memory unit, and being configured by the machine-readable
instructions to connect with a first computing device associated with the patient, prompt the
first computing device to select a pre-determined mode of communication, receive a request
for generating the medical summary from a first computing device associated with the patient,
send a plurality of questions related to the medical history of the patient to the first computing
device, receive a plurality of answers in response to the respective plurality of questions from
the first computing device, recognize a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers and
generate the medical summary of the patient including the plurality of keywords, compare the
plurality of keywords of the medical summary with a plurality of profiles associated with a
plurality of medical service providers, stored in a data repository, provide one or more profiles
of the plurality of profiles to the first computing device based on results of the comparison,
receive a list of selected profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles
associated with the selected medical service provider from the first computing device and send
the medical summary of the patient to a plurality of second computing devices associated with
the each of the selected medical service providers.
[020]    The processor may further be configured to establish a communication channel between
the first computing device and a plurality of second computing devices associated with the
selected medical service provider.

                                                  5
[021]    The communication channel may be configured to enable communication between the
patient and the selected medical service provider via text message, voice call and/or video call.
[022]    The processor may further be configured to prompt the first computing device to select
a pre-determined mode of communication. Preferably, the pre-determined mode of
communication is text mode, voice mode, video mode.
[023]    The medical history of the patient may comprise, but not limited to, personal data,
information of one or more medical problems to be consulted, symptoms of the current medical
problems, past medical problems, ongoing medications, duration of the current medical
problems, duration of the past medical problems and precautions prescribed to the patient.
[024]    The plurality of answers may be received in a form of a text, an audio or an audio-visual
from the first computing device.
[025] The computer system may further comprise a speech recognition module wherein the
processor may further be configured to recognize the plurality of keywords from the plurality
of answers using the speech recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the
form of the audio or the audio-visual.
[026]    The computer system may further comprise a text recognition module, wherein the
processor may further be configured to recognize the plurality of keywords from the plurality
of answers using the text recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form
of the text.
[027]    The plurality of keywords is selected from a group comprising, but not limited to,
personal data of the patient, names of the medical problems, names of the medication
associated with the respective medical problems and durations of the medical problems.
[028] Each of the plurality of profiles associated with each of the plurality of medical service
providers comprises, but not limited to, name, age, location, specialization, work experience,
contact details, achievements and rating of the medical service provider.
[029] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer implemented
method for generating a medical summary from medical history of a patient, the method
comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing device associated with the patient with a
computer system; selecting a pre-determined mode of communication with the computer
system by the first computing device; receiving a request for generating the medical summary

                                                   6
from the first computing device; sending a plurality of questions related to the medical history
of the patient to the first computing device; recording a plurality of answers in response to the
respective plurality of questions from the first computing device; recognizing a plurality of
keywords from the plurality of answers; and generating the medical summary of the patient
including the plurality of keywords.
[030] Preferably the step of connecting further comprising a step of prompting the first
computing device to select a pre-determined mode of communication. Preferably wherein the
pre-determined mode of communication is text messages, voice call, video call. Preferably the
medical history of the patient comprises personal data, information of one or more medical
problems to be consulted, symptoms of the current medical problems, past medical problems,
ongoing medications, duration of the current medical problems, duration of the past medical
problems and precautions prescribed to the patient. Preferably the plurality of answers is
received in a form of a text, an audio or an audio-visual from the first computing device.
Preferably the step of recognizing the plurality of keywords is performed using a speech
recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the audio or the audio
visual. Preferably the step of recognizing the plurality of keywords is performed using a text
recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the text. Preferably
the plurality of keywords is selected from a group comprising, personal data of the patient,
names of the medical problems, names of the medication associated with the respective medical
problems and durations of the medical problems.
[031] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer implemented
method for initiating a medical consultation with a medical service provider based on a medical
summary. the method comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing device associated
with the patient with a computer system; selecting a pre-determined mode of communication
with the computer system by the first computing device; generating the medical summary of
the patient including a plurality of keywords; comparing the plurality of keywords of the
medical summary with a plurality of profiles associated with a plurality of medical service
providers, stored in a data repository; providing one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles
to the first computing device based on results of the comparison; receiving a list of selected
profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles, associated with the selected
medical service provider from the first computing device; sending the medical summary of the
patient to a plurality of second computing devices associated with the each of the selected
medical service providers; and       establishing a communication channel between the first

                                                   7
computing device and the plurality of second computing devices associated with each of the
selected medical service providers.
[032] Preferably the step of connecting further comprising a step of prompting the first
computing device to select a pre-deternined mode of communication. Preferably the pre
determined mode of communication is text messages, voice call, video call. Preferably the
communication channel is configured to enable communication between the patient and each
of the selected medical service providers via text message, voice call and/or video call.
Preferably each of the plurality of profiles associated with each of the plurality of medical
service providers comprises of name, age, location, specialization, work experience, contact
details, achievements and rating of the medical service provider. Preferably the plurality of
keywords is selected from a group comprising, personal data of the patient, names of the
medical problems, names of the medication associated with the respective medical problems
and durations of the medical problems. Preferably
[033] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer system for
generating a medical summary from medical history of a patient, the computer system
comprising: a memory unit configured to store machine-readable instructions; and a processor
operably connected with the memory unit, the processor obtaining the machine-readable
instructions from the memory unit, and being configured by the machine-readable instructions
to: connect with a first computing device associated with the patient; prompt the first
computing device to select a pre-determined mode of communication; receive a request for
generating the medical summary from the first computing device; send a plurality of questions
related to the medical history of the patient to the first computing device; record a plurality of
answers in response to the respective plurality of questions from the first computing device;
recognize a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers; and generate the medical
summary of the patient including the plurality of keywords.
[034] Preferably the processor is further configured to prompt the first computing device to
select a pre-determined mode of communication.           Preferably the pre-determined mode of
communication is text messages., voice call, video call. Preferably the medical history of the
patient comprises personal data, information of one or more medical problems to be consulted,
symptoms of the current medical problems, past medical problems, ongoing medications,
duration of the current medical problems, duration of the past medical problems and
precautions prescribed to the patient. Preferably the plurality of answers is received in a form

                                                   8
of a text, an audio or an audio-visual from the first computing device. Preferably the computer
system comprises a speech recognition module wherein the processor is further configured to
recognize the plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers using the speech recognition
module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the audio or the audio-visual.
Preferably the computer system comprises a text recognition module, wherein the processor is
further configured to recognize the plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers using
the text recognition module, if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the text.
Preferably the plurality of keywords is selected from a group comprising, personal data of the
patient, names of the medical problems, names of the medication associated with the respective
medical problems and durations of the medical problems.
[035] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer system for
initiating a medical consultation with a medical service provider based on a medical summary,
the computer system comprising: a memory unit configured to store machine-readable
instructions; and a processor operably connected with the memory unit, the processor obtaining
the machine-readable instructions from the memory unit, and being configured by the machine
readable instructions to: connect with a first computing device associated with the patient;
prompt the first computing device to select a pre-determined mode of communication; receive
a request for generating the medical summary from the first computing device; generate the
medical summary of the patient including the plurality of keywords; compare the plurality of
keywords of the medical summary with a plurality of profiles associated with a plurality of
medical service providers, stored in a data repository; provide one or more profiles of the
plurality of profiles to the first computing device based on results of the comparison; receive a
list of selected profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles associated with
the selected medical service provider from the first computing device; send the medical
summary of the patient to a plurality of second computing devices associated with the each of
the selected medical service providers; and establish a communication channel between the
first computing device and the plurality of second computing devices associated with each of
the selected medical service providers.
[036] Preferably the processor is further configured to prompt the first computing device to
select a pre-determined mode of communication.           Preferably the pre-determined mode of
communication is text messages, voice call, video call. Preferably the communication channel
is configured to enable communication between the patient and each of the selected medical
service providers via text message, voice call and/or video call. Preferably the plurality of

                                                     9
keywords is selected from a group comprising, personal data of the patient, names of the
medical problems, names of the medication associated with the respective medical problems
and durations of the medical problems. Preferably the plurality of profiles associated with the
plurality of medical service providers comprise respective names, respective ages, respective
locations of medical practice, respective specializations, respective work experiences,
respective contact details, respective achievements and respective ratings of the plurality of
medical service providers.
[037] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer implemented
method for generating an information summary from the user history of a user and initiating a
professional services consultation with a professional services provider based on the
information summary, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing device
associated with the user with a computer system; selecting a pre-determined mode of
communication with the computer system, by the first computing device; receiving a request
for generating the information summary from the first computing device; sending a plurality
of questions related to the history of the user to the first computing device; recording a plurality
of answers in response to the respective plurality of questions from the first computing device;
recognizing a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers and generating the
information summary of the user including the plurality of keywords; comparing the plurality
of keywords of the information summary with a plurality of profiles associated with a plurality
of professional service providers, stored in a data repository; providing one or more profiles of
the plurality of profiles to the first computing device based on results of the comparison;
receiving a list of selected profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles,
associated with the selected professional service provider from the first computing device;
sending the information summary of the user to a plurality of second computing devices
associated with the each of the selected professional service providers.
[038] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer implemented
method for generating an information summary from user history of a user, the method
comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing device associated with the user with a
computer system; selecting a pre-determined mode of communication with the computer
system by the first computing device; receiving a request for generating the information
summary from the first computing device; sending a plurality of questions related to the
information history of the patient to the first computing device; recording a plurality of answers
in response to the respective plurality of questions from the first computing device; recognizing

                                                 10
a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers; and generating the information summary
of the user including the plurality of keywords.
    Brief Description of Drawings
[039]   At least one example of the invention will be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[040]   Figure 1 is an exemplary environment of computing devices to which the various
embodiments described herein may be implemented;
[041]   Figure 2 illustrates computer-implemented method for generating a medical summary
from medical history of a patient and initiating a medical consultation with a medical service
provider based on a medical summary, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[042]   Figure 3 illustrates an information flow diagram for receiving a request for generation
of a medical summary and sending a plurality of questions to a first computing device, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[043]   Figure 4A illustrates an information flow diagram for generation of the medical
summary from a plurality of answers received in a form of an audio or an audio-visual, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[044]   Figure 4B illustrates an information flow diagram for generation of the medical
summary from a plurality of answers received in the form of a text., in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[045]   Figure 5 illustrates an information flow diagram for comparing and providing one or
more profiles associated with one or more medical service providers based on comparison, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
[046]   Figure 6 illustrates an information flow diagram for establishment of a communication
channel between the first computing device and a second computing device, in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention.
[047]   It should be noted that the same numeral represents the same or similar elements
throughout the drawings.
    Description of Embodiments

                                                   11
[048]   The present invention aims to achieve the objective of automatically generating a
medical summary from a medical history of a patient and initiating medical consultant with a
preferred medical service provider such as a doctor, physician or a surgeon based on the
medical summary and preference of the patient. This is achieved by receiving a request from a
patient for generating medical summary, suggesting a requirement of a doctor. In response a
questionnaire is provided to the patient that has questions related to his medical history such
personal data, current and past diseases, ongoing medications etc. The questions may be asked
one by one or the whole questionnaire is provided at once. The patient may choose to answer
in any form such as audio, audio-visual or text form. The audio and the audio-visual answers
may be directly analysed to recognise keywords and/or converted to readable form (text form)
using speech recognition modules. Also, text form may be analysed to recognise keywords
using a text recognition module. Then from the answers, keywords may be extracted and a
medical summary having the keywords may be generated.
[049]   The patient may confirm the correctness of the medical summary and the medical
summary may be compared with the profiles of the doctors saved in the database. The profiles
that match the keywords of the medical summary to maximum extent as compared to other
profiles are present to the patient. For example, if medical summary of the patient includes
heart problem as current disease then the profile of doctors listing specialization as "heart
specialist" may be provided. Other criteria may include location of the patient and doctor etc.
The patient may select any of the profiles provided and a communication channel may be
established for the patient to communicate with the doctor and proceed for a consultation
session.
[050]   The present invention aims to achieve the above-mentioned objectives through a system
and a method that have been discussed with the help of numerous illustrations below, including
an exemplary environment of computing devices. However, a skilled addressee would
appreciate that the present invention is not limited to the environment discussed below and may
be equally applicable to many different environments without departing from the scope of the
present invention.
[051] Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary environment 100 of computing devices to which the
various embodiments described herein may be implemented. Figure 1 illustrates a first
computing device 104 associated with a patient or a representative (family, friend etc.) of
patient. A patient may be anyone who needs medical attention. The first computing device 104

                                                  12
may be selected from a group comprising mobile handheld devices (such as mobile phones,
PDA and tablet PCs etc.), desktop PCs and notebooks etc. The first computing device 104 is
envisaged to be connected with one or more input devices (such as a keyboard, a camera,
microphone etc.) (not shown) and one or more output devices (such as a display screen, speaker
etc.) (not shown). In case of mobile handheld devices such as a smartphone, the one or more
input devices and the one or more output devices may be integrally provided. For example in
touch-input based camera-enabled smartphone no external devices need to be connected.
Whereas in desktop PCs and laptops external cameras., speakers, headphones and microphones
may have to be externally connected. The first computing device 104 is connected with a
network 110. The network 110 may be one of, but not limited to, a Local Area Network 110
(LAN) or a Wide Area Network 110 (WAN). The network 110 may be implemented using a
number of protocols, such as but not limited to, TCP/IP, 3GPP, 3GPP2, LTE, IEEE 802.x etc.
[052]     Further connected to the network 110 is a computer system 102. The computer system
102 may be a portable computing device, a desktop computer or a server stack. The computer
is envisaged to include computing capabilities such as a memory unit 1022 configured to store
machine readable instructions. The machine readable instructions may be loaded into the
memory unit 1022 from a non-transitory machine-readable medium such as, but not limited to.,
CD-ROMs, DVD-ROMs and Flash Drives. Alternately, the machine readable instructions may
be loaded in a form of a computer software program into the memory unit 1022. The memory
unit 1022 in that manner may be selected from a group comprising EPROM, EEPROM and
Flash memory.
[053]     Further, the computer system 102 includes a processor 1024 operably connected with
the memory unit 1022. In various embodiments, the processor 1024 is one of, but not limited
to, a general purpose processor 1024, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) and a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA). The computer system 102 is also envisaged to include
a speech recognition module 1026 for recognition of information from an audio form or an
audio-visual form. The speech recognition module 1026 may also be used for conversion of
the audio or audio-visual form of data to a readable text format. Also included in the computer
system 102 is a text recognition module 1028 for recognition of predetermined text from the
readable data in the text form.
[054]     Further connected to the network 110 are plurality of second computing devices 108,
10 8
     1... 108 associated with a medical service provider. The medical service provider may be

                                                   13
a medical practitioner such as, but not limited to, a physician/doctor or a surgeon. The plurality
of second computing devices 108, 1081... 108, may be selected from a group comprising
mobile handheld devices (such as mobile phones, PDA and tablet PCs etc.), desktop PCs and
                                                                   10 8
notebooks etc. The plurality of second computing devices 108,           1... 1082 are also envisaged
to be connected with one or more input devices (such as a keyboard, a camera, microphone
etc.) and one or more output devices (such as a display screen, speaker etc.). In case of mobile
handheld devices such as a smartphone. the one or more input devices and the one or more
output devices may be integrally present. For example, in touch-input based camera-enabled
smartphone no external devices need to be connected. Whereas in desktop PCs and laptops
external cameras and speakers, headphones and microphones may have to be externally
connected.
[055] Further connected to the network 110 is a data repository 106. The data repository 106
may be a cloud based storage or a local storage. In any manner, the database 108 is envisaged
to be capable of providing the data to any of the computing devices connected with the network
110, when the data is queried appropriately using applicable security and other data transfer
protocols. The data repository 106 is envisaged to store a plurality of profiles associated with
a plurality of medical service providers. The plurality of profiles associated with the plurality
of medical service providers comprise respective names, respective ages, respective locations
of medical practice, respective specializations, respective work experiences, respective contact
details, respective achievements and respective ratings of the plurality of medical service
providers. For example: a medical service provider may share his experience on any
complicated case that he/she may have handled in the past. Such experiences help patient feel
assured while selecting such as a medical service provider. Various embodiments of the present
invention may now be understood with the exemplary environment 100 as a reference.
[056] Figure 2 illustrates computer-implemented method 200 for generating a medical
summary from medical history of a patient and initiating a medical consultation with a medical
service provider based on a medical summary, in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention. The computer-implemented method 200 starts at step 210 when a first
computing device 104 is connected with a computer system 102. The connection between the
first computing device 104 and the computer system 102 may be facilitated by the computer
network 110. Further, the first computing device 104 may require providing authentication
information before completing the connection process. The authentication information may be
login id & password, digital certificate, one time password etc. Then at step 220, the computer

                                                   14
system 102 prompts the first computing device 104 to select mode of communication from the
list of pre-determined modes. The pre-determined modes may be text mode, voice mode and/or
video mode.
[057]    Once the first computing device 104 is connected with the computer system 102 and
one of the mode of communication has been selected by the first computing device 104 then at
step 230 the processor 1024 receives a request for generating the medical summary from the
first computing device 104. The request signifies a requirement of a medical consultation for
the patient. Then at step 240, then processor 1024 sends a plurality of questions related to the
medical history of the patient to the first computing device 104. The same has been illustrated
in Figure 3. The medical history of the patient may comprise, but not limited to. personal data,
information of one or more medical problems to be consulted, symptoms of the current medical
problems, past medical problems, ongoing medications, duration of the current medical
problems, duration of the past medical problems and precautions prescribed to the patient.
[058]    The personal data may include a name, a gender, a Date of Birth (DOB), location of
residence, blood group etc. The plurality of questions may be talk about any of the aforesaid
topics. In one embodiment, the plurality of questions may be sent at a same time just like a
questionnaire. In another embodiment, the plurality of questions may be sent one by one, with
a next being sent only after receiving an answer for a previous question. Further, at step 250,
the processor 1024 receives a plurality of answers in response to the respective plurality of
questions from the first computing device 104. The plurality of answers may be received in a
form of a text, an audio or an audio-visual from the first computing device 104. The patient
may be asked to select a mode of replying to the plurality of questions i.e. an audio mode, a
video mode or a text mode. In the audio mode, the patient may record an audio recording of
the plurality of answers in response to the respective plurality of questions using the
microphone of the first client device. The recorded audio may have a format selected from one
of. but not limited to, .mp3, .wav, .aac, .m4a or .wma. In that scenario, the plurality of answers
in the audio form are then received at the processor 1024.
[059]    In the video mode, the patient may record a video using the camera of the first
computing device 104 while answering the plurality of questions in response to the respective
plurality of answers. The recorded video may have a format selected from one of, but not
limited to, .mp4, .3gp, .avi, .flv, .wmv or .mov. In that scenario, the plurality of answers in an
audio-visual form are then received at the processor 1024. In case of the text mode, the patient

                                                    15
may simply type the plurality of answers using the keyboard or the touch based input and the
answers may be received at the processor 1024.
[060]    Then at step 260, the processor 1024 recognizes a plurality of keywords from the
plurality of answers and generates the medical summary of the patient including the plurality
of keywords. The plurality of keywords may be selected from a group comprising, but not
limited to, personal data of the patient, names of the medical problems, names of the medication
associated with the respective medical problems and durations of the medical problems. The
plurality of keywords may be pre-stored in the data repository 106. Figure 4A illustrates an
information flow diagram for generation of the medical summary from a plurality of answers
received in a form of an audio or an audio-visual, in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention. As shown in figure 4A, when the plurality of answers received are in the
form of the audio or the audio-visual, the speech recognition module 1026 may be used to
recognise information from the audio part.
[061]    The processor 1024 may analyse the audio part and use the speech recognition module
1026 to recognise the plurality of keywords directly from the audio part. This may be achieved
by comparing the recognised information with the plurality of keywords pre-stored in the data
repository 106 and extracting the ones that are mentioned in the plurality of answers. In one
embodiment, the speech recognition module 1026 may be used to convert the audio part of the
audio form or the audio-visual form of plurality of answers, into a readable text form. Referring
to figure 4B that illustrates an information flow diagram for generation of the medical summary
from a plurality of answers received in the form of the text, in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention. In this scenario, the processor 1024 compares the text of the plurality
of answers with the pre-stored plurality of keywords to recognise and extract the plurality of
keywords mentioned in the plurality of answers. This step may also be performed to recognise
keywords, in case, the speech recognition module 1026 is being used to convert the audio form
into the readable text form.
[062] Referring to both Figures 4A-4B, the plurality of keywords after recognition are used
to generate the medical summary of the patient. This may be understood by way of an example.
Let's suppose, the plurality of answers received from the patient are as follows:
     "My name is ABC. I am 40 years old. I live in XYZ state. My blood group is B+. My
      contact details are 99999-99999 and abc     gmail.com."

                                                   16
     "In the last two weeks I have had breathing problems. I get out of breath even after a little
      exertion."
     "A year ago I was diagnosed with diabetes and I take medication for the same ever since.
     "Also, I am prohibited from eating anything with sugar."
[063] In the above example, the processor 1024 may recognize the keywords and generate
the medical summary that may look like:
         Name ofthe patient: ABC
         Age: 40                                                       Blood Group: B+
         Location: XYZ                                                 Email: abcDgmail.com
         Phone. 99999-99999
         Medical problem                               : Breathing problem
         Symptoms                                      : Loss of breath after little exertion
         Time of first sins ofsymptoms                 : Two weeks ago
         Other (existing and past) medical problems : Diabetes
         Ongoin medication                             : Medication for diabetes.
         Duration of the ongoing medication            : 1 year
         Precautions prescribed                        : Prohibited from eating anything having
                                                       sugar
[064] However, a skilled addressee would appreciate that the summary could also include
information other than the above mentioned, without departing from the scope of the present
invention. In one embodiment, the processor 1024 stores the medical summary of the patient
in the data repository 106 giving the patient a unique id and password for accessing the medical
summary in future. Also, the patient may update the medical summary in future by accessing
the medical summary and updating the medical problem to consult for. After that the processor
1024 may automatically updates medical summary by putting the previously consulted medical
problem and the corresponding details under the "other medical problems". This is helpful in
case the patient wants a second opinion from another medical service provider or faces another
medical problem in future. He/she doesn't have to re-answer the plurality of questions every
time before requiring a medical consultation.
[065] In another embodiment, the processor 1024 sends the medical summary to the first
computing device 104 for confirmation of the correctness of the content. The processor 1024
proceeds to the next step after receiving the confirmation from the first computing device 104.

                                                   17
Returning to Figure 2, at step 270, the processor 1024 compares the plurality of keywords of
the medical summary with the plurality of profiles associated with the respective plurality of
medical service providers, stored in the data repository 106. The processor 1024 may compare
the name of medical problem mentioned in the summary with the specialization of the medical
service provider and/or the location of the patient with the location of the work of the medical
service provider etc. For example, if a patient mentions his medical problem as a heart problem
and his/her location as XYZ state, then the processor 1024 may provide a list of the one or
more heart specialists working/practicing in the XYZ state.
[066] In this step, the processor 1024 basically shortlists the one or more medical service
providers from the plurality of medical service providers based on the comparison. Then at
step 280, the processor 1024 provides the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles to the
first computing device 104. The same has been illustrated in Figure 5. The patient may then go
through the one or more profiles received and compare the respective one or more medical
service providers based on the experience, ratings, achievements, location etc. mentioned in
the respective one or more profiles. After that at step 290, the processor 1024 receives a
selection of a profile from the one or more profiles, associated with the selected medical service
provider from the first computing device 104. The selection may be received via a touch-based
input from the touch based mobile handheld device or via a click of a cursor in case the first
computing device 104 is a desktop PC. Thereafter, at step 2100 the computer system 102 send
the medical summary of the patient to the plurality of second computing devices 108,
1081... 108n associated with the each of the selected medical service providers. The computer
system 102 may communicate with the plurality of second computing devices 108,
1081...108n via the computer network 110.
[067] Further, the processor 1024 may then connect with the selected medical service
provider and establish a communication channel between the first computing device 104 and a
second computing device 108. The same has been illustrated in Figure 6. The second
computing device 108 is associated with the selected medical service provider. The
communication channel is configured to enable communication between the patient and the
selected medical service provider via text message, voice call and/or video call. The
communication channel may be used to set up a medical consultation session. The medical
consultation session may be set up face-to-face in person or in a video conferencing in case it
is an emergency or as per the requirement of the patient and/or a convenience of the selected
medical service provider. In one embodiment, the patient may directly contact the selected

                                                  18
medical service provider using the contact details mentioned the selected profile of the selected
medical service provider.
[068]   The present invention offers a number of advantages. Firstly, it gives an option to the
patient to provide his/her medical history in the form of a recorded audio or video. This eases
out the process of sharing medical history as the patient doesn't necessarily has to type. Further,
the medical summary is automatically generated from the plurality of answers that the patient
provides related to medical history. The medical summary may also be stored and updated in
future if the patient feels the requirement of consultation again for a second opinion or for
another medical problem. Additionally, the patient may thoroughly go through the profiles of
the shortlisted medical service providers to his/her satisfaction before selecting one. Also, the
patient may utilise the communication channel to set up medical consultation session or may
consult over video conferencing.
[069] In another preferred embodiment the invention is used to prepare an information
summary for any professional services industry and is not limited to the medical industry only.
For example, embodiments of the invention can be applied to financial services, legal services,
accounting services and any other suitable professional services. According to such and
embodiment of the invention there is provided a computer implemented method for generating
an information summary from the user history of a user and initiating a professional services
consultation with a professional services provider based on the information summary, the
method comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing device associated with the user
with a computer system; selecting a pre-determined mode of communication with the computer
system, by the first computing device; receiving a request for generating the information
summary from the first computing device; sending a plurality of questions related to the history
of the user to the first computing device; recording a plurality of answers in response to the
respective plurality of questions from the first computing device; recognizing a plurality of
keywords from the plurality of answers and generating the information summary of the user
including the plurality of keywords; comparing the plurality of keywords of the information
summary with a plurality of profiles associated with a plurality of professional service
providers, stored in a data repository; providing one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles
to the first computing device based on results of the comparison; receiving a list of selected
profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles, associated with the selected
professional service provider from the first computing device; sending the information

                                                   19
summary of the user to a plurality of second computing devices associated with the each of the
selected professional service providers.
[070] In another preferred embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented
method for generating an information summary from user history of a user, the method
comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing device associated with the user with a
computer system; selecting a pre-determined mode of communication with the computer
system by the first computing device; receiving a request for generating the information
summary from the first computing device; sending a plurality of questions related to the
information history of the patient to the first computing device; recording a plurality of answers
in response to the respective plurality of questions from the first computing device; recognizing
a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers; and generating the information summary
of the user including the plurality of keywords.
[071] In such alternative embodiments the relevant user history, be it financial, legal,
accounting or other history is collected from the user and an appropriate information summary
of the user matched and distributed to relevant professionals in a similar manner as described
above.
[072] It should be understood that the techniques of the present disclosure might be
implemented using a variety of technologies. For example, the methods described herein may
be implemented by a series of computer executable instructions residing on a suitable computer
readable medium. Suitable computer readable media may include volatile (e.g. RAM) and/or
non-volatile (e.g. ROM, disk) memory, carrier waves and transmission media. Exemplary
carrier waves may take the form of electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals conveying
digital data steams along a local network or a publically accessible network such as the Internet.
[073] It should also be understood that, unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from
the following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing
terms such as "controlling" or "obtaining" or "computing" or "storing" or "receiving" or
"determining" or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar
electronic computing device, that processes and transforms data represented as physical
(electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data
similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers
or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.

                                                      20
CLAIMS:
  The claims defining the invention are as follows:
     1. A computer implemented method for generating a medical summary from medical
         history of a patient and initiating a medical consultation with a medical service provider
         based on the medical summary, the method comprising the steps of:
                  connecting a first computing device associated with the patient with a computer
         system;
                  selecting a pre-deterinined mode of communication with the computer system,
         by the first computing device;
                  receiving a request for generating the medical summary from the first
         computing device;
                  sending a plurality of questions related to the medical history of the patient to
         the first computing device;
                  recording a plurality of answers in response to the respective plurality of
         questions from the first computing device;
                  recognizing a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers and generating
         the medical summary of the patient including the plurality of keywords;
                  comparing the plurality of keywords of the medical summary with a plurality
         of profiles associated with a plurality of medical service providers, stored in a data
         repository;
                  providing one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles to the first computing
         device based on results of the comparison;
                  receiving a list of selected profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality
         of profiles, associated with the selected medical service provider from the first
         computing device;
                  sending the medical summary of the patient to a plurality of second computing
         devices associated with the each of the selected medical service providers.
     2. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a step of
         establishing a communication channel between the first computing device and the
         plurality of second computing devices associated with each of the selected medical
         service providers.

                                               21
3.  The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the communication
    channel is configured to enable communication between the patient and each of the
    selected medical service providers via text message, voice call and/or video call.
4. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of
    connecting further comprising a step of prompting the first computing device to select
    a pre-determined mode of communication.
5. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the pre-determined
    mode of communication is text mode, voice mode, video mode.
6. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the medical history
    of the patient comprises personal data, information of one or more medical problems to
    be consulted, symptoms of the current medical problems, past medical problems,
    ongoing medications, duration of the current medical problems, duration of the past
    medical problems and precautions prescribed to the patient.
7. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1., wherein the plurality of
    answers is received in a form of a text, an audio or an audio-visual from the first
    computing device.
8.  The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of
    recognizing the plurality of keywords is performed using a speech recognition module,
    if the plurality of answers is received in the form of the audio or the audio-visual.
9. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of
    recognizing the plurality of keywords is performed using a text recognition module, if
    the plurality of answers is received in the form of the text.
10. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of
    keywords is selected from a group comprising, personal data of the patient, names of
    the medical problems, names of the medication associated with the respective medical
    problems and durations of the medical problems.
11. The computer implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of the plurality
    of profiles associated with each of the plurality of medical service providers comprises
    of name, age, location, specialization, work experience, contact details, achievements
    and rating of the medical service provider.

                                                22
12. A computer system for generating a medical summary from medical history of a patient
    and initiating a medical consultation with a medical service provider based on a medical
    summary, the computer system comprising:
            a memory unit configured to store machine-readable instructions; and
            a processor operably connected with the memory unit, the processor obtaining
    the machine-readable instructions from the memory unit, and being configured by the
    machine-readable instructions to:
                     connect with a first computing device associated with the patient;
                     prompt the first computing device to select a pre-determined mode of
            communication;
                     receive a request for generating the medical summary from the first
            computing device;
                     send a plurality of questions related to the medical history of the patient
            to the first computing device;
                     record a plurality of answers in response to the respective plurality of
            questions from the first computing device;
                     recognize a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers and
            generate the medical summary of the patient including the plurality of
            keywords;
                     compare the plurality of keywords of the medical summary with a
            plurality of profiles associated with a plurality of medical service providers,
            stored in a data repository;
                     provide one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles to the first
            computing device based on results of the comparison;
                     receive a list of selected profiles from the one or more profiles of the
            plurality of profiles associated with the selected medical service provider from
            the first computing device; and
                     send the medical summary of the patient to a plurality of second
            computing devices associated with the each of the selected medical service
            providers.
13. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the processor is further
    configured to establish a communication channel between the first computing device

                                               23
    and the plurality of second computing devices associated with each of the selected
    medical service providers.
14. The computer system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the communication channel is
    configured to enable communication between the patient and each of the selected
    medical service providers via text message, voice call and/or video call.
15. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the processor is further
    configured to prompt the first computing device to select a pre-determined mode of
    communication.
16. The computer system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the pre-determined mode of
    communication is text mode, voice mode, video mode.
17. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the medical history of the patient
    comprises personal data, information of one or more medical problems to be consulted,
    symptoms of the current medical problems, past medical problems, ongoing
    medications, duration of the current medical problems, duration of the past medical
    problems and precautions prescribed to the patient.
18. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the plurality of answers is
    received in a form of a text, an audio or an audio-visual from the first computing device.
19. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, further comprising a speech recognition
    module wherein the processor is further configured to recognize the plurality of
    keywords from the plurality of answers using the speech recognition module, if the
    plurality of answers is received in the form of the audio or the audio-visual.
20. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, further comprising a text recognition
    module, wherein the processor is further configured to recognize the plurality of
    keywords from the plurality of answers using the text recognition module, if the
    plurality of answers is received in the form of the text.
21. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the plurality of keywords is
    selected from a group comprising, personal data of the patient, names of the medical
    problems, names of the medication associated with the respective medical problems
    and durations of the medical problems.

                                                 24
22. The computer system as claimed in claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of profiles
    associated with each of the plurality of medical service providers comprises of name,
    age, location, specialization, work experience, contact details, achievements and rating
    of the medical service provider.
23. A computer implemented method for generating an information summary from the user
    history of a user and initiating a professional services consultation with a professional
    services provider based on the information summary, the method comprising the steps
    of:
             connecting a first computing device associated with the user with a computer
    system;
             selecting a pre-determined mode of communication with the computer system,
    by the first computing device;
             receiving a request for generating the information summary from the first
    computing device;
             sending a plurality of questions related to the history of the user to the first
    computing device;
             recording a plurality of answers in response to the respective plurality of
    questions from the first computing device;
             recognizing a plurality of keywords from the plurality of answers and generating
    the information summary of the user including the plurality of keywords;
             comparing the plurality of keywords of the information summary with a
    plurality of profiles associated with a plurality of professional service providers, stored
    in a data repository;
            providing one or more profiles of the plurality of profiles to the first computing
    device based on results of the comparison;
             receiving a list of selected profiles from the one or more profiles of the plurality
    of profiles, associated with the selected professional service provider from the first
    computing device;
             sending the information summary of the user to a plurality of second computing
    devices associated with the each of the selected professional service providers.
24. A computer implemented method for generating an information summary from user
    history of a user, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a first computing

                                          25
device associated with the user with a computer system; selecting a pre-determined
mode of communication with the computer system by the first computing device;
receiving a request for generating the information summary from the first computing
device; sending a plurality of questions related to the information history of the patient
to the first computing device; recording a plurality of answers in response to the
respective plurality of questions from the first computing device; recognizing a plurality
of keywords from the plurality of answers; and generating the information summary of
the user including the plurality of keywords.

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                             <U+2701><U+2702>

                                               <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
               <U+271E><U+271F><U+271F>
                     <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2718><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2713><U+2713><U+2721><U+2720><U+270D><U+270F><U+270C><U+261E><U+2717> <U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+271A>
                             <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2715><U+270F><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270C><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271B><U+2713><U+270C><U+261E><U+2714>
                                                                               <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2713><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+261E><U+272D><U+2717><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2712><U+2714><U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714><U+2714><U+2716><U+261B><U+270D><U+2720><U+270F><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2727>
                     <U+2712><U+261E><U+2720><U+261E><U+270D><U+2718><U+261E> <U+270F> <U+2712><U+261E><U+271C><U+2716><U+261E><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2712><U+270F><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2714><U+261E><U+2717><U+270D><U+2720><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2714><U+2714><U+270F><U+2712><U+271B>
                                                                              <U+2725><U+2605><U+2727>
                     <U+2713><U+261E><U+261B><U+2717><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2716><U+261E><U+2713><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2713> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2722><U+270F><U+270C><U+261E><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2721> <U+270F> <U+2714><U+261E><U+2717><U+270D><U+2720><U+270F><U+2722>
                                    <U+271A><U+270D><U+2713><U+270C><U+2721><U+2712><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2715><U+270F><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C>                    <U+2725><U+2729><U+2727>
                               <U+2712><U+261E><U+2720><U+261E><U+270D><U+2718><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2713><U+2719><U+261E><U+2712><U+2713>
                                                                               <U+2725><U+272A><U+2727>
                        <U+2712><U+261E><U+2720><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B><U+270D><U+2723><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271B><U+2719><U+2721><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E>
                                    <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2713><U+2719><U+261E><U+2712><U+2713>                      <U+2725><U+272B><U+2727>
                     <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271B><U+2719><U+2721><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2714><U+261E><U+2717><U+270D><U+2720><U+270F><U+2722>
                            <U+2713><U+2716><U+2714><U+2714><U+270F><U+2712><U+271B> <U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270F> <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+2722><U+261E><U+2713>              <U+2725><U+272C><U+2727>
                      <U+2715><U+2712><U+2721><U+2718><U+270D><U+2717><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+2722><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711>
                                          <U+2715><U+2712><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+2722><U+261E><U+2713>                            <U+2725><U+272E><U+2727>
                             <U+2712><U+261E><U+2720><U+261E><U+270D><U+2718><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2722><U+270D><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+2713><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+261E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+2722><U+261E><U+2713>
                                                                              <U+2725><U+272F><U+2727>
                       <U+2713><U+261E><U+261B><U+2717><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2714><U+261E><U+2717><U+270D><U+2720><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2714><U+2714><U+270F><U+2712><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2715><U+270F><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2721> <U+270F>
                           <U+2715><U+2722><U+2716><U+2712><U+270F><U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2711> <U+2713><U+261E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2718><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+2713>
                                                                             <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2727>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                             <U+2701><U+2702>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>
                               <U+2701><U+2702>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F>
                                <U+2701><U+2702>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>
                               <U+2701><U+2702>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                               <U+2701>

