ABSTRACT
Methods for treating tissue matrices and tissue matrices produced according to the
methods are provided. The methods can include treating a tissue matrix with a
proteolytic enzyme to produce a desired pliability of the tissue matrix.

           METHOD FOR ENZYMATIC TREATMENT OF TISSUE PRODUCTS
[0001]             The present application is a divisional application of Australian
Application No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[0001a]            This application claim priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119 to United States
Provisional Application Number 61/479,937, which was filed on April 28, 2011.
[0002]             The present disclosure relates to tissue matrices, and more
particularly, to methods for controlling the pliability of tissue matrices by treating the
matrices with proteolytic enzymes.
[0003]             Various tissue-derived products are used to regenerate, repair, or
otherwise treat diseased or damaged tissues and organs. Such products can include
intact tissue grafts and/or acellular or reconstituted acellular tissues (e.g., acellular
tissue matrices from skin, intestine, or other tissues, with or without cell seeding). Such
products generally have mechanical properties determined by the tissue source (i.e.,
tissue type and animal from which it originated) and the processing parameters used to
produce the tissue products. Since tissue products are often used for surgical
applications and/or tissue replacement or augmentation, the mechanical properties of
the tissue products are important. For example, surgeons generally prefer tissues that
feel more natural and/or are easy to handle during surgical procedures. However,
some tissue products are undesirably stiff and have an unnatural feel. Accordingly,
methods for treating the tissue products to produce more desirable mechanical
properties are provided.
                                         SUMMARY
[0004]             According to certain embodiments, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen-containing tissue
matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic

enzyme under conditions sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in
the tissue matrix.
[0005]             In another embodiment, a method for treating a tissue matrix
is provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen-containing
acellular tissue matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic
enzyme under conditions sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in
the tissue matrix and to increase the porosity of the tissue matrix.
 [0006]            In some embodiments, an acellular tissue matrix is provided.
The matrix can be prepared by a processing comprising selecting an acellular
tissue matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under
conditions sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix.
                       DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0007]            Fig. 1A-Fig. 1D show acellular tissue matrices after treatment
with enzymes using methods of the present disclosure, as well as untreated
 controls.
 [0008]            Figures 2 is a box plot of tensile strength testing data for
 treated and control samples.
 [0009]             Figures 3 is a box plot of suture strength testing data for
 treated and control samples.
 [0010]             Figures 4 is a box plot of tear strength testing data for treated
 and control samples.
 [0011]             Figures 5 is a box plot of collagenase digestion testing data
 for treated and control samples.
 [0012]             Figures 6 is a box plot of creep resistance testing data for
 treated and control samples.
                                          2

         DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0013]              Reference will now be made in detail to certain exemplary
embodiments according to the present disclosure, certain examples of which
are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same
reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same
or like parts.
[0014]              In this application, the use of the singular includes the plural
unless specifically stated otherwise. In this application, the use of "or" means
"and/or" unless stated otherwise. Furthermore, the use of the term "including",
as well as other forms, such as "includes" and "included", is not limiting. Any
range described herein will be understood to include the endpoints and all
values between the endpoints.
[0015]              The section headings used herein are for organizational
purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter
described. All documents, or portions of documents, cited in this application,
including but not limited to patents, patent applications, articles, books, and
treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety for
any purpose.
[0016]              As used herein "tissue product" will refer to any human or
animal tissue that contains an extracellular matrix proteins. "Tissue products"
can include acellular or partially decellularized tissue matrices, decellularized
tissue matrices that have been repopulated with exogenous cells, and/or
cellular tissues that have been processed to change the orientation of at least
some of the collagen fibers within the tissue's extracellular matrix.
                                            3

[0017]             Various human and animal tissues can be used to produce
products for treating patients. For example, various tissue products for
regeneration, repair, augmentation, reinforcement, and/or treatment of human
tissues that have been damaged or lost due to various diseases and/or
structural damage (e.g., from trauma, surgery, atrophy, and/or long-term wear
and degeneration) have been produced. Such products can include, for
example, acellular tissue matrices, tissue allografts or xenografts, and/or
reconstituted tissues (i.e., at least partially decellularized tissues that have
been seeded with cells to produce viable materials).
[0018]             For surgical applications, it is often desirable to produce
tissue products that have certain mechanical properties. For example, the
tissue product, which may include a sheet of material, should possess
sufficient strength to withstand the intended use. For example, certain tissue
products may be used to repair defects (e.g., hernias), to support surrounding
tissues or implants (e.g., for breast augmentation and/or reconstruction), or to
replace damaged or lost tissue (e.g., after trauma or surgical resection).
Whatever the particular use, the tissue product should have sufficient
strength, elasticity, and/or other mechanical properties to function until tissue
regeneration and/or repair occurs.
[0019]             In addition, tissue products should have a desirable feel. For
example, surgeons generally prefer materials that have a natural tissue-like
feel (e.g., are sufficiently soft, pliable, and/or elastic). Further, after
implantation it is desirable for tissue products to feel more natural. For
example, tissues used for breast augmentation should not be excessively stiff
so as to produce a more naturally feeling breast.
                                            4

 [0020]           However, some tissue products can be excessively stiff. For
example, some surgeons note that porcine-derived dermal materials such as
STRATTICETM are less pliable than human-dermal products such as
ALLODERM®. However, processes for improving the feel of such products
should not adversely affect the biological and/or mechanical properties of the
products. Specifically, processing of the products to improve the feel of the
products should not produce an undesirable decrease in other mechanical
properties such as tensile strength, and should not alter the protein matrix in
such a way that the material does not support tissue regeneration and/or
repair.
[0021]            The present disclosure provides methods for treating tissues
to improve the feel of tissue products produced from the tissues. The
disclosure also provides tissue products produced using the methods of
treatments. In addition, the present disclosure provides methods of treating
tissues to control the porosity of tissue products produced from the tissues. In
some cases, controlling the porosity can improve cellular infiltration and tissue
regeneration and/or repair.
[0022]            Accordingly, in one embodiment, a method for treating a
tissue matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen
containing tissue matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic
enzyme under conditions sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in
the tissue matrix. In another embodiment, a method for treating a tissue
matrix is provided. The method can comprise selecting a collagen-containing
acellular tissue matrix and contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic
enzyme under conditions sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in
                                         5

the tissue matrix and to increase the porosity of the tissue matrix. Fig. 1A-Fig.
1D show acellular tissue matrices (STRATTICET M ) after treatment with
enzymes using methods of the present disclosure, as well as untreated
controls. As shown, the treated samples are significantly more pliable.
[0023]             In various embodiments, treatment of tissue matrices with
proteolytic enzymes provides improved mechanical properties without causing
degradation in one or biological properties. For example, treatment of tissue
matrices can produce desired stiffness, feel, tactile properties, and/or desired
porosity without causing increased inflammation or scar formation and/or
without causing a reduction in the tissue matrices' ability to promote cell
ingrowth and regeneration.
[0024]             The tissues can be selected to provide a variety of different
biological and mechanical properties. For example, an acellular tissue matrix
or other tissue product can be selected to allow tissue in-growth and
remodeling to assist in regeneration of tissue normally found at the site where
the matrix is implanted. For example, an acellular tissue matrix, when
implanted on or into fascia, may be selected to allow regeneration of the
fascia without excessive fibrosis or scar formation. In certain embodiments,
the tissue product can be formed from ALLODERM@ or STRATTICE TM, which
are human and porcine acellular dermal matrices respectively. Alternatively,
other suitable acellular tissue matrices can be used, as described further
below. The tissues can be selected from a variety of tissue sources including
skin (dermis or whole skin) , fascia, pericardial tissue, dura, umbilical cord
tissue, placental tissue, cardiac valve tissue, ligament tissue, tendon tissue,
arterial tissue, venous tissue, neural connective tissue, urinary bladder tissue,
                                         6

ureter tissue, and intestinal tissue. The methods described herein can be
used to process any collagenous tissue type, and for any tissue matrix
product. For example, a number of biological scaffold materials are described
by Badylak et al., and the methods of the present disclosure can be used to
treat those or other tissue products known in the art. Badylak et al.,
"Extracellular Matrix as a Biological Scaffold Material: Structure and Function,"
Acta Biomaterialia (2008), doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2008.09.013.
[0025]              In some cases, the tissue matrix can be provided as a
decellularized tissue matrix. Suitable acellular tissue matrices are described
further below. In other cases, the method can further include processing intact
tissue to remove cells or other materials. The tissues can be completely or
partially decellularized to yield acellular tissue matrices or extracellular tissue
materials to be used for patients. For example, various tissues, such as skin,
intestine, bone, cartilage, nerve tissue (e.g., nerve fibers or dura), tendons,
ligaments, or other tissues can be completely or partially decellularized to
produce tissue products useful for patients. In some cases, these
decellularized products can be used without addition of exogenous cellular
materials (e.g., stem cells). In certain cases, these decellularized products
can be seeded with cells from autologous sources or other sources to
facilitate treatment. Suitable processes for producing acellular tissue matrices
are described below.
[0026]              A number of different enzymes can be used to treat the
tissue matrices. For example, suitable enzymes can include sulfhydryl
proteases such as bromelain. In addition, they can include bromelain, papain,
ficin, actinidin, or combinations thereof. The enzymes can be purchased
                                          7

commercially or extracted from fruit sources. For example, one source of
bromelain is MCCORMICK MEAT TENDERIZER@, but the enzymes can also
be extracted from pineapple and/or purchased in a medical-grade formulation.
[0027]              The enzymes can be contacted with the tissues to increase
the pliability of the tissue without causing undesirable degradation in other
mechanical and/or biological properties. For example, when a batch of
materials are produced with or without the enzyme treatments discussed
herein, the enzyme treatments will not produce an undesirable change in at
least one of tensile strength, tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance,
collagenase susceptibility, glycosaminoglycan content, lectin content, burst
strength, thermal transition temperature, or combinations thereof. In some
cases, an undersirable change is a statistically significant reduction any one
of tensile strength, tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance,
glycosaminoglycan content, lectin content, burst strength; an increase in
collagenase susceptibility; or a change (upward or downward) in thermal
transition temperature (as measure using differential scanning calorimetry).
[0028]              As noted above, in some embodiments, the tissues are
treated with an enzyme to increase the porosity of the tissue. In various
embodiments, increasing the porosity of the tissue is performed to increase
the number and/or size of channels, which can improve the rate of cellular
infiltration and tissue regeneration.
[0029]              In some cases, the enzymes are selected such that they
cause site-specific cleavage of proteins within the tissues. For example, it has
been found that treatment of porcine dermal materials with bromelain does
not cause further alterations in the matrix structure after a certain amount of
                                          8

treatment. Therefore, treatment of dermis with bromelain does not cause
further change in the matrix with prolonged exposure or after extended
periods of time.
[0030]              In addition, the enzyme can be applied to the tissues in a
variety of suitable solutions. For example, bromelain has been found to be
effective when applied to tissues in normal saline, but other suitable buffers
(e.g., PBS) can be used.
Acellular Tissue Matrices
 [0031]             The term "acellular tissue matrix," as used herein, refers
generally to any tissue matrix that is substantially free of cells and/or cellular
components. Skin, parts of skin (e.g., dermis), and other tissues such as
 blood vessels, heart valves, fascia, cartilage, bone, and nerve connective
tissue may be used to create acellular matrices within the scope of the
 present disclosure. Acellular tissue matrices can be tested or evaluated to
 determine if they are substantially free of cell and/or cellular components in a
 number of ways. For example, processed tissues can be inspected with light
 microscopy to determine if cells (live or dead) and/or cellular components
 remain. In addition, certain assays can be used to identify the presence of
 cells or cellular components. For example, DNA or other nucleic acid assays
 can be used to quantify remaining nuclear materials within the tissue
 matrices. Generally, the absence of remaining DNA or other nucleic acids will
 be indicative of complete decellularization (i.e., removal of cells and/or cellular
 components). Finally, other assays that identify cell-specific components (e.g.,
 surface antigens) can be used to determine if the tissue matrices are
 acellular. Skin, parts of skin (e.g., dermis), and other tissues such as blood
                                           9

vessels, heart valves, fascia, cartilage, bone, and nerve connective tissue
may be used to create acellular matrices within the scope of the present
disclosure.
[0032]             In general, the steps involved in the production of an
acellular tissue matrix include harvesting the tissue from a donor (e.g., a
human cadaver or animal source) and cell removal under conditions that
preserve biological and structural function. In certain embodiments, the
process includes chemical treatment to stabilize the tissue and avoid
biochemical and structural degradation together with or before cell removal. In
various embodiments, the stabilizing solution arrests and prevents osmotic,
hypoxic, autolytic, and proteolytic degradation, protects against microbial
contamination, and reduces mechanical damage that can occur with tissues
that contain, for example, smooth muscle components (e.g., blood vessels).
The stabilizing solution may contain an appropriate buffer, one or more
antioxidants, one or more oncotic agents, one or more antibiotics, one or
more protease inhibitors, and/or one or more smooth muscle relaxants.
[0033]             The tissue is then placed in a decellularization solution to
remove viable cells (e.g., epithelial cells, endothelial cells, smooth muscle
cells, and fibroblasts) from the structural matrix without damaging the
biological and structural integrity of the collagen matrix. The decellularization
solution may contain an appropriate buffer, salt, an antibiotic, one or more
detergents (e.g., TRITON X-100TM, sodium deoxycholate, polyoxyethylene
(20) sorbitan mono-oleate), one or more agents to prevent cross-linking, one
or more protease inhibitors, and/or one or more enzymes. In some
embodiments, the decellularization solution comprises 1% TRITON X-1OOTM
                                          10

in RPMI media with Gentamicin and 25 mM EDTA
(ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid). In some embodiments, the tissue is
incubated in the decellularization solution overnight at 37 "C with gentle
shaking at 90 rpm. In certain embodiments, additional detergents may be
used to remove fat from the tissue sample. For example, in some
embodiments, 2% sodium deoxycholate is added to the decellularization
solution.
[0034]             After the decellularization process, the tissue sample is
washed thoroughly with saline. In some exemplary embodiments, e.g., when
xenogenic material is used, the decellularized tissue is then treated overnight
at room temperature with a deoxyribonuclease (DNase) solution. In some
embodiments, the tissue sample is treated with a DNase solution prepared in
DNase buffer (20 mM HEPES (4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic
acid), 20 mM CaCl 2 and 20 mM MgCl 2). Optionally, an antibiotic solution (e.g.,
Gentamicin) may be added to the DNase solution. Any suitable buffer can be
used as long as the buffer provides suitable DNase activity.
[0035]             While an acellular tissue matrix may be made from one or
more individuals of the same species as the recipient of the acellular tissue
matrix graft, this is not necessarily the case. Thus, for example, an acellular
tissue matrix may be made from porcine tissue and implanted in a human
patient. Species that can serve as recipients of acellular tissue matrix and
donors of tissues or organs for the production of the acellular tissue matrix
include, without limitation, mammals, such as humans, nonhuman primates
(e.g., monkeys, baboons, or chimpanzees), pigs, cows, horses, goats, sheep,
dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, gerbils, hamsters, rats, or mice.
                                          11

 [0036]               Elimination of the a-gal epitopes from the collagen-containing
 material may diminish the immune response against the collagen-containing
 material. The a-gal epitope is expressed in non-primate mammals and in New
World monkeys (monkeys of South America) as well as on macromolecules
such as proteoglycans of the extracellular components. U. Galili et al., J. Biol.
Chem. 263: 17755 (1988). This epitope is absent in Old World primates
(monkeys of Asia and Africa and apes) and humans, however. Id. Anti-gal
antibodies are produced in humans and primates as a result of an immune
 response to a-gal epitope carbohydrate structures on gastrointestinal bacteria.
 U. Galili et al., Infect. Immun. 56: 1730 (1988); R. M. Hamadeh et al., J. Clin.
 Invest. 89: 1223 (1992).
[0037]               Since non-primate mammals (e.g., pigs) produce a-gal
epitopes, xenotransplantation of collagen-containing material from these
mammals into primates often results in rejection because of primate anti-Gal
binding to these epitopes on the collagen-containing material. The binding
results in the destruction of the collagen-containing material by complement
fixation and by antibody dependent cell cytotoxicity. U. Galili et al.,
 Immunology Today 14: 480 (1993); M. Sandrin et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 90: 11391 (1993); H. Good et al., Transplant. Proc. 24: 559 (1992); B. H.
Collins et al., J. Immunol. 154: 5500 (1995). Furthermore, xenotransplantation
results in major activation of the immune system to produce increased
amounts of high affinity anti-gal antibodies. Accordingly, in some
embodiments, when animals that produce a-gal epitopes are used as the
tissue source, the substantial elimination of a-gal epitopes from cells and from
extracellular components of the collagen-containing material, and the
                                            12

prevention of re-expression of cellular a-gal epitopes can diminish the immune
response against the collagen-containing material associated with anti-gal
antibody binding to a-gal epitopes.
[0038]            To remove a-gal epitopes, after washing the tissue
thoroughly with saline to remove the DNase solution, the tissue sample may
be subjected to one or more enzymatic treatments to remove certain
immunogenic antigens, if present in the sample. In some embodiments, the
tissue sample may be treated with an a-galactosidase enzyme to eliminate a
gal epitopes if present in the tissue. In some embodiments, the tissue sample
is treated with a-galactosidase at a concentration of 300 U/L prepared in 100
mM phosphate buffer at pH 6.0. In other embodiments, the concentration of a
galactosidase is increased to 400 U/L for adequate removal of the a-gal
epitopes from the harvested tissue. Any suitable enzyme concentration and
buffer can be used as long as sufficient removal of antigens is achieved.
[0039]            Alternatively, rather than treating the tissue with enzymes,
animals that have been genetically modified to lack one or more antigenic
epitopes may be selected as the tissue source. For example, animals (e.g.,
pigs) that have been genetically engineered to lack the terminal a-galactose
moiety can be selected as the tissue source. For descriptions of appropriate
animals see co-pending U.S. Application Serial No. 10/896,594 and U.S.
Patent No. 6,166,288, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
reference in their entirety. In addition, certain exemplary methods of
processing tissues to produce acellular matrices with or without reduced
amounts of or lacking alpha-1,3-galactose moieties, are described in Xu, Hui.
et al., "A Porcine-Derived Acellular Dermal Scaffold that Supports Soft Tissue
                                          13

Regeneration: Removal of Terminal Galactose-a-(1,3)-Galactose and
Retention of Matrix Structure," Tissue Engineering, Vol. 15, 1-13 (2009),
which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0040]               After the acellular tissue matrix is formed, histocompatible,
viable cells may optionally be seeded in the acellular tissue matrix to produce
a graft that may be further remodeled by the host. In some embodiments,
histocompatible viable cells may be added to the matrices by standard in vitro
cell co-culturing techniques prior to transplantation, or by in vivo repopulation
following transplantation. In vivo repopulation can be by the recipient's own
cells migrating into the acellular tissue matrix or by infusing or injecting cells
obtained from the recipient or histocompatible cells from another donor into
the acellular tissue matrix in situ. Various cell types can be used, including
embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells (e.g. mesenchymal stem cells), and/or
neuronal cells. In various embodiments, the cells can be directly applied to the
inner portion of the acellular tissue matrix just before or after implantation. In
certain embodiments, the cells can be placed within the acellular tissue matrix
to be implanted, and cultured prior to implantation.
Example
[0041]               The following example illustrates a process for treating
porcine dermal acellular tissue matrices with bromelain to increase the
pliability of the material. As discussed below, the treatment did not cause an
undesirable change in various mechanical properties. In addition, the
treatment increase the porosity of the material, which may improve the rate of
cellular infiltration and tissue regeneration.
                                             14

[0042]            For this experiment, STRATTICETM acellular tissue matrices,
as obtained from LIFECELL CORPORATION (Branchburg, NJ) were used.
STRATTCE TM is available in a pliable form and a more firm version,
depending on the anatomic location from which the material was obtained.
Both types were used for this experiment. The samples used for testing were
cut into quarters, and three quarters were treated. Untreated samples (1
quarter) were used as controls; the controls were refrigerated during
treatment. STRATTICETM is packaged in a solution, and therefore, does not
require rehydration. The treated samples were placed in 0.5 liter of cold tap
water containing 55g of MCCORMICK MEAT TENDERIZER.
[0043]            Fig. 1A-Fig. 1D show acellular tissue matrices after treatment
with enzymes using methods of the present disclosure, as well as untreated
controls. Figures 2-6 are box plots of tensile strengths, suture strengths, tear
strengths, elastase degradation, and creep resistance for each treated and
control samples. The treated samples had a noticeably increased pliability
compared to controls but did not have significant reduction in other
mechanical properties. In addition, no significant change in thermal transition
temperature or collagenase susceptibility was found. Overall paired T-Test
showed no statistical difference between control and treatment groups.
                                        15

                              WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.     A method for treating a tissue matrix, comprising:
        selecting a collagen-containing tissue matrix; and
        contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions
sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix.
        2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue matrix is an acellular
tissue matrix.
        3.     The method of either of claims 1-2, wherein the tissue matrix
comprises a dermal tissue matrix.
        4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue is selected from
fascia, pericardial tissue, dura, umbilical cord tissue, placental tissue, cardiac
valve tissue, ligament tissue, tendon tissue, arterial tissue, venous tissue,
neural connective tissue, urinary bladder tissue, ureter tissue, and intestinal
tissue.
        5.     The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the enzyme is
bromelain.
        6.     The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the enzyme is
selected from bromelain, papain, ficin, actinidin, or combinations thereof.
        7.     The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the tissue matrix
is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not produce
an undesirable change in at least one of tensile strength, tear strength, suture
strength, creep resistance, burst strength, thermal transition temperature, or
combinations thereof.
                                         16

        8.      The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the tissue matrix
is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions that increase the
porosity of the tissue matrix.
        9.      The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the tissue matrix
is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not cause a
statistically significant reduction in tensile strength, tear strength, suture
strength, creep resistance, thermal transition temperature, or combinations
thereof.
        10.     The method of any one of claim 3-9, further including treating
the tissue matrix to removal at least some of the cells and cellular
components from the tissue matrix.
        11.     The method of claim 10, including removal all the cells and
cellular components from the tissue matrix.
        12.     A method for treating a tissue matrix, comprising:
        selecting a collagen-containing acellular tissue matrix;
        contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions
sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix and to
increase the porosity of the tissue matrix.
         13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the acellular tissue matrix
comprises a dermal tissue matrix.
         14.    The method of claim 12, wherein the acellular tissue matrix is
selected from fascia, pericardial tissue, dura, umbilical cord tissue, placental
tissue, cardiac valve tissue, ligament tissue, tendon tissue, arterial tissue,
venous tissue, neural connective tissue, urinary bladder tissue, ureter tissue,
and intestinal tissue.
                                          17

        15.    The method of any one of claims 11-14, wherein the enzyme is
bromelain.
        16.    The method of any one of claims 11-14, wherein the enzyme is
selected from bromelain, papain, ficin, actinidin, or combinations thereof.
        17.    The method of any one of claims 11-16, wherein the tissue
matrix is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not
produce an undesirable change in at least one of tensile strength, tear
strength, suture strength, creep resistance, burst strength, thermal transition
temperature, or combinations thereof.
        18.    The method of any one of claims 11-16, wherein the tissue
matrix is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions that do not
cause a statistically significant reduction in tensile strength, tear strength,
suture strength, creep resistance, thermal transition temperature, or
combinations thereof.
        19.    An acellular tissue matrix prepared by a processing comprising:
        selecting an acellular tissue matrix; and
        contacting the tissue matrix with a proteolytic enzyme under conditions
sufficient to produce a desired level of pliability in the tissue matrix.
        20.    The acellular tissue matrix of claim 19, wherein the acellular
tissue matrix comprises a dermal tissue matrix.
        21.    The acellular tissue matrix of claim 19, wherein the acellular
tissue matrix is selected from fascia, pericardial tissue, dura, umbilical cord
tissue, placental tissue, cardiac valve tissue, ligament tissue, tendon tissue,
arterial tissue, venous tissue, neural connective tissue, urinary bladder tissue,
ureter tissue, and intestinal tissue.
                                          18

        22.   The acellular tissue matrix of any one of claims 19-21, wherein
the enzyme is bromelain.
        23.   The acellular tissue matrix of any one of claims 19-21, wherein
the enzyme is selected from bromelain, papain, ficin, actinidin, or
combinations thereof.
        24.   The acellular tissue matrix of any one of claims 19-23, wherein
the tissue matrix is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions
that do not produce an undesirable change in at least one of tensile strength,
tear strength, suture strength, creep resistance, burst strength, thermal
transition temperature, or combinations thereof.
        25.   The acellular tissue matrix of any one of claims 19-23, wherein
the tissue matrix is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions
that do not cause a statistically significant reduction in tensile strength, tear
strength, suture strength, creep resistance, thermal transition temperature, or
combinations thereof.
        26.   The acellular tissue matrix of any one of claims 19-25, wherein
the tissue matrix is contacted with the proteolytic enzyme under conditions
that increase the porosity of the tissue matrix.
                                          19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
