Abstract
The present invention features compositions and methods for treating gluten-related disorders.
We describe compositions comprising one or more metabolites produced by Lactobacillus
paracasei CBA L74, International Depository Accession Number LMG P-24778 that reduce
cellular entry of gliadin peptides. The compositions may include a physiologically acceptable
carrier, for example, a food product or a pharmaceutical carrier. The compositions can be
administered to a subject having a gluten-related disorder, for example, celiac disease or gluten
sensitivity.
                                                48

                                   Gluten-related Disorders
Cross-reference to Related Applications
     [0001]     This application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/661,105, which was filed on June 18, 2012, and U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/725,693, which was filed on November 13, 2012, and Australian
Patent Application No. 2013277316 filed on 18 June 2013 the contents of those
earlier filed applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 Field of the Invention
     [0002]     The present invention relates to probiotic organisms and compositions
comprising metabolites produced by probiotic organisms. These compositions are
useful or treatment of gluten-related disorders, for example, celiac disease.
 Background of the Invention
     [0003]     Gluten and gluten-related polypeptides are found in many cereal grains,
 including wheat, rye and barley. For individuals with gluten-related disorders such as
celiac disease and gluten sensitivity, consumption of gluten-containing foods can have
severe and long-lasting health consequences. Celiac disease is an autoimmune
disorder of the small intestine that is triggered by gluten consumption in genetically
predisposed people. Certain fragments of gluten ("gliadins") stimulate an immune
response that permanently damages the small intestine and prevents nutrient
absorption. Celiac disease can present with a wide spectrum of symptoms. The most
common ones include chronic diarrhea, abdominal distention, weight loss, and failure to
thrive (in children). Celiac disease can also be associated with iron deficiency anemia,
osteoporosis, short stature, arthritis, infertility, peripheral neuropathy and liver failure.
Celiac disease patients are also at increased risk for certain kinds of cancers, such as
small bowel carcinomas and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The incidence of celiac disease
 in populations of European descent is estimated to be between 0.5 and 1.5%. The
                                                  1

incidence is increasing both in the U.S. and Europe, as well as in Asia, in part due to the
adoption of westernized dietary patterns. Celiac disease is typically diagnosed in
infancy or childhood, although the numbers of diagnoses made in adulthood is also on
the rise. There is presently no cure for celiac disease and the standard treatment is a
life-long restriction to a gluten-free diet.
     [0004]     Gluten sensitivity is less well-characterized than celiac disease. It
presents with many of the same symptoms, but does not include the damage to the
small intestine. The diagnosis tends to be made on exclusion criteria and improvement
of symptoms once the patient is put on a gluten-free diet.
     [0005]     Adherence to a gluten-free diet requires strict avoidance of wheat, rye
and barley products. This can be challenging given the often insufficient labeling
information about the gluten content of foods; the opportunity for contamination during
food processing and preparation, especially for those food prepared in outside the
home; the financial burden of gluten-free products, and the willpower required for strict
adherence. Compliance can also be affected by access to education and counseling,
family and social support, and psychological factors. Moreover, strict adherence to a
gluten-free diet can result in micronutrient deficiencies. Such deficiencies, particularly
in the B vitamins (vitamin B6, vitamin B12 and folic acid) and certain trace elements,
e.g., iron, zinc and copper, can result in potentially significant health issues, particularly
in children. There is a continuing need for therapeutic agents for the treatment of
gluten-related disorders.
Summary Of The Invention
     [0006]     The present invention provides compositions comprising one or more
metabolites produced by Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74, International Depository
Accession Number LMG P-24778. The metabolites can reduce gliadin peptide toxicity
in a subject having a gluten-related disorder. The metabolites, which are substantially
stable to temperatures above standard physiological temperatures, reduce cellular entry
of gliadin peptides. The gliadin peptide can vary and may include peptides that
                                                 2

encompass one or more epitopes recognized by T-cells, e.g., P57-68, and peptides that
are recognized by the innate immune system, e.g., P31-43 . Exemplary peptides include
a-gliadin peptides, for example, peptides having an amino acid sequence selected from
the group consisting of LGQQQPFPPQQPY (SEQ ID NO: 1); QLQPFPQPQLPY (SEQ
ID NO: 2); LGQQQPFPPQQPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO: 3); and
LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO: 4). In some
embodiments, the metabolites are partially or substantially free of Lactobacillus
paracasei CBA L74, International Depository Accession Number LMG P-24778, cells.
The compositions can also include a physiologically acceptable carrier, for example, a
food product or a pharmaceutical carrier.
    [0007]    Also provided are methods of treating a subject having a gluten-related
disorder, the method comprising identifying a subject in need of treatment and
administering an effective amount of a composition comprising a metabolite produced
by Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74, International Depository Accession Number LMG
P-24778, wherein the metabolite reduces gliadin peptide toxicity. The methods and
compositions are useful for the treatment of any gluten-related disorder, including celiac
disease, including the various subtypes, e.g., classical celiac disease, atypical celiac
disease, latent celiac disease, and silent celiac disease, dermatitis herptiformis, gluten
ataxia and gluten sensitivity. The methods and compositions may be administered
along with standard therapies for gluten related disorders, for example, dietary
therapies.
Brief Description Of The Drawinqs
    [0008]    These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be
more fully disclosed in, or rendered obvious by, the following detailed description of the
preferred embodiment of the invention, which is to be considered together with the
accompanying drawings wherein like numbers refer to like parts and further wherein:
    [0009]     Fig. 1 is an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA
L74 on entry of P31-43*ss into CaCo2 cells.
                                                3

    [0010]     Fig. 2 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
different concentrations of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of P31-        4 3 "ss
into CaCo2 cells.
    [0011]     Fig. 3 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
different concentrations of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of      5 7 -6 8 "ss
into CaCo2 cells.
    [0012]     Fig. 4 is an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA
L74 DNA on entry of P31-43*ss into CaCo2 cells.
    [0013]     Fig. 5a is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31-43*ss into CaCo2
cells. Fig. 5b is an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74
supernatant on entry of P3 1 -4 3 ss into CaCo2 cells.
    [0014]     Fig. 6a is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P57-68iss into CaCo2
cells. Fig. 6b is an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74
supernatant on entry of P5 7 -6 8 ss into CaCo2 cells.
    [0015]     Fig. 7a is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of heat
treatment of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31-         4 3 "ss
into CaCo2 cells. Fig. 7b is an analysis of the effect of heat-treatment of Lactobacillus
paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31-43*ss into CaCo2 cells.
    [0016]     Fig. 8 is an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA
L74 supernatant from fermented rice on entry of P31-      43 *ssinto CaCo2 cells.
    [0017]     Fig. 9 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant from fermented rice and fermented
oats on entry of P31-43*ss into CaCo2 cells.
                                                4

    [0018]    Fig. 10 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant from fermented rice and fermented
oats on entry of Dextran-Texas Red into CaCo2 cells.
    [0019]    Fig. 11 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of Alexa Fluor@
conjugated EGF into CaCo2 cells.
    [0020]    Fig. 12 is an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA
L74 supernatant on entry of Alexa Fluor@-conjugated EGF into CaCo2 cells.
    [0021]    Figs. 13a, 13b, 13c, and 13d are an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus
paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of P31-43iss into CaCo2 cells. Fig. 13a shows
untreated control cells. Fig. 13b shows Caco2 cells treated with with 104 cfu/ml of L.
paracasei CBA L74. Fig. 13c shows Caco2 cells treated with 106 cfu/ml of L. paracasei
CBA L74. Fig. 13d shows Caco2cells treated with 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74.
    [0022]    Fig. 14 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
different concentrations of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of P31-    4 3 "ss
into CaCo2 cells.
    [0023]    Figs. 15a, 15b, 15c, and 15d are an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus
paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of P57-68iss into CaCo2 cells. Fig. 15a shows
untreated control cells. Fig. 15b shows Caco2 cells treated with with 104 cfu/ml of L.
paracasei CBA L74. Fig. 15c shows Caco2 cells treated with 106 cfu/ml of L. paracasei
CBA L74. Fig. 15d shows Caco2cells treated with 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74.
    [0024]    Fig. 16 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
different concentrations of Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of P5 7 -6 8 "ss
into CaCo2 cells.
    [0025]    Fig. 17 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of 108
cfu/ml Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 on entry of P31-43*ss and P57-68"ss into
CaCo2 cells.
                                             5

    [0026]     Figs. 18a, 18b, and 18c are an analysis of the effect of Lactobacillus
paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31-43iss into CaCo2 cells. Fig. 18a
shows untreated control cells. Fig. 18b shows Caco2 cells treated with with 108 cfu/ml
of L. paracasei CBA L74. Fig. 18c shows Caco2 cells treated with supernatant
collected from 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74.
    [0027]     Fig. 19 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of L.
paracasei, strain CBA L74 cells and L. paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry
of P31-43*ss into CaCo2 cells.
    [0028]     Figs. 20a, 20b, and 20c are an analysis of the effect of L.paracasei, strain
CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P57-68iss into Caco2 cells. Fig. 20a shows untreated
control cells. Fig. 20b shows Caco2 cells treated with with 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei
CBA L74. Fig. 20c shows Caco2 cells treated with supernatant collected from 108
cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74.
    [0029]     Fig. 21 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of L.
paracasei, strain CBA L74 cells and L. paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry
of P57-68ss into Caco2 cells.
    [0030]     Figs. 22a and 22b are an analysis of the effect of L.paracasei, strain CBA
L74 supernatant on entry of EGF-Alexa 488 into Caco2 cells. Fig. 20a shows untreated
control cells. Fig. 20b shows Caco2 cells treated with supernatant collected from the
equivalent of 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74.
    [0031]     Fig. 23 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of L.
paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of EGF-Alexa 488 into Caco2 cells.
    [0032]      Figs. 24a, 24b, and 24c are an analysis of the effect of removal of
L.paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31-43ss into Caco2 cells. Fig.
20a shows untreated control cells. Fig. 20b shows Caco2 cells treated with L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant. Fig. 20c shows Caco2 cells treated L. paracasei CBA
L74 supernatant that had been removed.
                                              6

    [0033]     Fig. 25 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of
treatment and then removal of L. paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of
P31-43ss into CaCo2 cells.
    [0034]     Figs. 26a, 26b, 26c, and 26d are an analysis of the effect of heat
treatment of L.paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31- 4 3 *ssinto Caco2
cells. Fig. 26a shows untreated control cells. Fig. 26b shows Caco2 cells treated with
L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant. Fig. 26c shows Caco2 cells treated L. paracasei
CBA L74 supernatant that had been boiled. Fig. 26d shows Caco2 cells treated L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant that had been heated at 800C.
    [0035]     Fig. 27 is a graph depicting the results of an analysis of the effect of heat
treatment of L. paracasei, strain CBA L74 supernatant on entry of P31- 4 3 *ssinto CaCo2
cells.
Detailed Description Of The Preferred Embodiment
    [0036]     This description of preferred embodiments is intended to be read in
connection with the accompanying drawings, which are to be considered part of the
entire written description of this invention. The drawing figures are not necessarily to
scale and certain features of the invention may be shown exaggerated in scale or in
somewhat schematic form in the interest of clarity and conciseness. In the description,
relative terms such as "horizontal," "vertical," "up," "down," "top" and "bottom" as well as
derivatives thereof (e.g., "horizontally," "downwardly," "upwardly," etc.) should be
construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing figure
under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and normally
are not intended to require a particular orientation. Terms including "inwardly" versus
"outwardly," "longitudinal" versus "lateral" and the like are to be interpreted relative to
one another or relative to an axis of elongation, or an axis or center of rotation, as
appropriate. Terms concerning attachments, coupling and the like, such as "connected"
and "interconnected," refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached
to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures, as well as both
                                               7

movable or rigid attachments or relationships, unless expressly described otherwise.
The term "operatively connected" is such an attachment, coupling or connection that
allows the pertinent structures to operate as intended by virtue of that relationship.
When only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to
include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple
sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
In the claims, means-plus-function clauses, if used, are intended to cover the structures
described, suggested, or rendered obvious by the written description or drawings for
performing the recited function, including not only structural equivalents but also
equivalent structures.
    [0037]     The present invention is based, in part, on the inventors' discovery that
cultures of the probiotic organism Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74, can reduce
the entry of certain components of gluten into human intestinal cells. More specifically,
the inventors have found that isolated L. paracasei CBA L74 and culture supernatants
from L. paracasei CBA L74 reduced the entry of a-gliadin peptides into cultured human
intestinal epithelial cells. Moreover, the reduction in peptide entry was also observed for
foods that had been fermented by L. paracasei CBA L74. The effect on peptide entry
was observed even when culture supernatants were treated with heat. Accordingly, the
invention features compositions that can mitigate the toxic effects of gliadin peptides.
The compositions can include Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 cells,
metabolites produced by Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74, or a combination of
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 cells and metabolites produced by
Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74.
    [0038]     Lactobacillus paracasei, strain CBA L74 was isolated by the inventors and
deposited under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of
Micro-organisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure on September 9, 2008 at the
Belgian Coordinated Collections of Micro-organisms (BCCM) Laboratorium voor
Microbiologie (LMG), Ghent, Belgium. The Accession Number given by the
International Depositary Authority is LMG P-24778. For ease of reading, we will not
repeat the phrase "Accession Number LMG P-24778" on every occasion. It is to be
                                              8

understood that where we refer to L. paracasei, strain CBA L74, we refer to the
deposited strain having the Accession Number LMG P-24778.
    [0039]     While we believe we understand certain events that occur upon
administration of compositions comprising or made by fermentation with L. paracasei
CBA L74, the compositions of the present invention are not limited to those that work by
affecting any particular cellular mechanism. Our working hypothesis is that
compositions comprising L. paracasei CBA L74, supernatant from L. paracasei CBA
L74 cultures or fermentates, and metabolites produced by L. paracasei CBA L74 may
provide an increased barrier to translocation of gluten and gluten-related polypeptides
across the intestinal mucosa and thus moderate the effects of gluten and gluten-related
peptides in individuals having a gluten related disorder, for example, celiac disease or
gluten sensitivity. The inventors have found that L. paracasei CBA L74, supernatant
reduced cellular uptake of molecules that enter cells via different endocytotic pathways,
e.g., phagocytosis, macropinocytosis, clathrin-mediated endocytosis (also referred to as
receptor-mediated endocytosis) and caveolae. For example, L. paracasei CBA L74,
supernatant reduced cellular entry of both dextran, which is known to enter cells via
macropinocytosis, and epidermal growth factor (EGF), which enters cells via receptor
mediated endocytosis. The beneficial effects of the compositions described herein may
derive for example, from metabolites produced during fermentation, for example,
organic acids such as lactic acid, butyric acid or acetic acid. Alternatively or in addition,
bacterial cell wall fragments and other sub-cellular bacterial components, such as
proteins, carbohydrates, nucleic acid fragments and lipids, may exert effects on the
cellular response to gluten and gluten-related polypeptides.
    [0040]     Accordingly, the invention features compositions and methods that can be
used to protect cells from the potentially toxic effects of gluten and gluten-related
peptides. The compositions can include media in which L. paracasei CBA L74 have
been grown or food products, e.g., dairy products or cereal products, that have been
fermented by L. paracasei CBA L74. In some embodiments, the media or food products
can be treated, e.g., by physico-chemical methods such as centrifugation, to remove all
or substantially all of the L. paracasei CBA L74 cells that had been cultured in the media
                                              9

or food product. In some embodiments, the compositions can include isolated L.
paracasei CBA L74 and a physiological carrier. The carrier may be a food product, but
the invention is not so limiting and in some embodiments the carrier may be a
pharmacological carrier.
    [0041]      Also provided are methods of making and using the compositions. The
methods of the invention include methods of producing compositions comprising L.
paracasei CBA L74, methods of fermenting food products with L. paracasei CBA L74
and methods of administering the compositions to a subject having a gluten-related
disorder. The methods can be used on human subjects or in veterinary medicine.
Regardless of the subject (whether human or non-human), any of the present methods
can include a step of identifying the subject. For example, the methods can include a
step of determining whether the subject is in need of treatment.
Compositions
        L. paracasei CBA L74
    [0042]      The compositions of the invention can include the probiotic organism, L.
paracasei CBA L74. The World Health Organization has defined probiotics as: "Live
microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit
on the host." In some embodiments, the L. paracasei CBA L74 can be subjected to
treatments that render them non-replicating, for example, exposure to heat, y
irradiation, or uv-irradiation. A non-replicating L. paracasei CBA L74 can be a dead cell
or a living cell that has been rendered incapable of cell division. A non-replicating L.
paracasei CBA L74 can be an intact cell or a cell that has undergone partial or complete
lysis. In some embodiments, the non-replicating cells can include a mixture of intact
and lysed cells.
    [0043]      In some embodiments, the compositions can include L. paracasei CBA
L74 fermetates, from which all or substantially all, of the L. paracasei CBA L74 cells
have been removed. Methods for separating cells from growth media are well known in
the art and can rely upon physical methods, for example, centrifugation to produce a
                                               10

cell pellet and a culture supernatant, filtration, ultrafiltration, tangential flow-filtration,
normal flow filtration or reverse osmosis. Alternatively or in addition, the separation
method can be ligand-based and include, for example, an antibody that specifically
binds to L. paracasei CBA L74. The antibody can be coupled to a solid support such as
a magnetic bead.
     [0044]      The compositions include one or more L. paracasei CBA L74 metabolites,
i.e., any substance produced by L. paracasei CBA L74 The metabolite may be
encoded by one or more genes or it may be generated by the enzymatic activity of one
or more gene products . Metabolites include, for example, small molecules, e.g., amino
acids, nucleosides, nucleotides as well as larger polymeric structures such as
polypeptides, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, proteoglycans and lipids. The metabolite
can be a primary metabolite, e.g., a metabolite directly involved in normal cell function,
or a secondary metabolite, e.g., a metabolite typically not required for fundamental
cellular functions. A metabolite can also include any metabolic intermediate generated
during the synthesis of a primary or secondary metabolite. Intermediates can include,
but are not limited to intermediates of the Embden-Meyerhof pathway, the pentose
phosphate (pentose-P) pathway, the Entner-Doudoroff pathway, the citrate cycle, and
amino acid biosynthesis.
     [0045]      Exemplary primary metabolites include, without limitation, alcohols, e.g.,
ethanol, methanol, butanol; amino acids, e.g., lysine, arginine, ornithine, histidine,
citrulline, isoleucine, alanine, valine, leucine, glycine, threonine, serine, proline,
phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, cysteine, cystine, methionine, glutamic acid,
aspartic acid, glutamine, and asparagine; nucleotides, e.g., 5' guanylic acid;
antioxidants, e.g., isoasorbic acid; organic acids, e.g., acetic acid, lactic acid, citric acid,
formic acid; vitamins, e.g., vitamin B12; sugars, fatty acids, e.g., short chain fatty acids;
polyamines; peptides, e.g., bacteriocins such as a antibiotic e.g. nisin, or a
nonlantibiotic, e.g., enterocin, plantaricin W , plantaricin S.
     [0046]      A metabolite can also be a secondary metabolite. Secondary metabolites
are typically those that are not required for fundamental cellular functions. Secondary
                                                11

metabolites can vary widely; exemplary secondary metabolites include antibiotics,
hormones, flavonoids, terpenoids, alkaloids, phenylpropanoids, phenyl derivatives,
hexanol derivatives, coumarins, stilbenes, cyanohydrins, glucosinolates, sterols, and
saponins.
    [0047]     Lactobacilli typically produce the following metabolites during the
fermentation of milk products: lactic acid/lactate, acetate, ethanol, formate,
acetaldehyde, a-acetolactate, acetoin, diacetyl, and 2,3 butylene glycol (butanediol)
during the fermentation of milk products.       Fermentation can be any process in which a
microbe causes or contributes to a breakdown of a complex organic substance into
simpler substances.
    [0048]     The L. paracasei CBA L74 metabolite can be contained within media,
fermentates or culture supernatants. In some embodiments, the metabolite can be
partially or substantially isolated from the media, fermentates or culture supernatants.
Thus, the functional metabolite, i.e., a metabolite that reduces cell entry of a gliadin
peptide, can include or exclude any of the metabolites described above.               Methods of
isolation of metabolites will vary according to the structure and chemistry of the
particular metabolite. A partially or substantially isolated metabolite will retain the
functional activity, i.e., the ability to reduce cell entry of gliadin peptides, of media,
fermentates or culture supernatants. Thus, if an L. paracasei CBA L74 culture
supernatant can reduce gliadin peptide entry into cells, it is expected that a partially or
substantially isolated metabolite from L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant will
also reduce gliadin peptide entry into cells. Standard art-known methods can be used
for isolation and characterization of L. paracasei CBA L74 metabolites. Exemplary
methods include, for example, stability analyses, e.g., stability to heat, pH, and/or
enzymatic activity; chromatographic analysis, e.g., size exclusion chromatography, high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography, thin layer
chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, reverse
phase chromatography; mass spectrometry. In some embodiments, the metabolite is
stable to heat, that is, it retains its functional activity, i.e., the ability to prevent cell entry
                                                 12

of gliadin peptides, after exposure to temperatures outside the normal physiological
range, e.g., 500C, 600C, 700C, 800C, 900C or 100C.
        Gluten and gluten-related polypeptides
    [0049]     Regardless of the particular form, the compositions described herein
reduce cellular uptake of gluten and gluten-related polypeptides. Gluten and gluten
related polypeptides are the major storage proteins of dietary cereal grains. Gluten is
found in wheat. The closely related proteins, the hordeins and the secalins are found in
barley and rye, respectively. Several hundred genes encoding gluten and gluten
related proteins have been described. In addition to its nutritional properties, gluten
plays a key role in determining the unique baking quality of wheat by conferring water
absorption capacity, cohesivity, viscosity and elasticity on dough. Gluten actually is a
complex of two polypeptide fractions that have been classified based on their solubility
in aqueous alcohols: the soluble gliadins and the insoluble glutenins. Both fractions
consist of numerous, related protein components characterized by a high glutamine and
proline content.
    [0050]    Gliadins are monomeric proteins with molecular weights (MWs) around
28,000-55,000 and isoelectric points of about pH 3.0-4.0. There are four classes of
gliadin polypeptides: a-gliadin, P- gliadin, y-gliadin and w-gliadin. Exemplary amino acid
sequences for a-gliadin can be found in GenBank at GI:7209265 (Triticum aestivum
290 amino acids, SEQ ID NO: 7); GI:7209263 (Triticum aestivum 269 amino acids, SEQ
ID NO: 8); GI:376341626 (Triticum aestivum 210 amino acids, SEQ ID NO: 9);
GI:282721198 Triticum durum, 313 amino acids, SEQ ID NO: 10).
    [0051]    Glutenin is a larger, multimeric protein ranging in MW from about 100,00
to more than 10,000,000 with an average MW of about 3,000,000. Isoelectric points for
glutenin range from about 6.5-7.0. After reduction of disulphide bonds, the resulting
glutenin subunits show a solubility in aqueous alcohols similar to gliadins. Based on
primary structure, glutenin subunits have been divided into the high-molecular-weight
(HMW) subunits (MW=67,000-88,000) and low-molecular-weight (LMW) subunits
(MW=32,000-35,000).Gliadins, glutenins, hordeins, and secalins have a high proline
                                               13

and glutamine content. The high proline content renders these proteins resistant to
complete proteolytic digestion by gastric, pancreatic, and brush border enzymes in the
human intestine, since those enzymes are deficient in prolyl endopeptidase activity.
This can result in the accumulation of relatively large peptide fragments (as many as 50
amino acids in length) with a high proline and glutamine content in the small intestine.
    [0052]     The specific amino acid sequences for gliadin can vary, but they all
contain T-cell epitopes that trigger the immune responses involved in celiac disease
pathogenesis. It is these gluten specific T cell responses in the small intestine play an
important role in producing the inflammatory response that ultimately results in the
hallmark atrophy of intestinal villi and crypt hyperplasia. Specific native gluten peptides
can bind to HLA-DQ2/8, the HLA types most strongly associated with celiac disease.
This HLA binding induces lamina propria CD4 T cell responses, which in turn damage
the mucosa of the small intestine. Tissue damage initiates secretion of the wound
healing enzyme tissue transglutaminase (tTG). However, tTG also deamidates gluten
peptides. Deamidation converts neutral glutamine residues to negatively charged
glutamic acid residues. These deamidated peptides have significantly increased
binding affinity for HLA-DQ2/8 relative to peptides that have not been deamidated.
This process leads to an enhanced antigenic presentation of gliadin. Binding of
deamidated peptides further activates gluten-specific CD4+ T-helper 1 (Th1) cells in the
lamina propria, which in turn increases intraepithelial lymphocytosis, crypt hyperplasia,
production of cytokines leading to villous atrophy, and expansion of B cells that produce
antibodies to gliadin and tTG.
    [0053]     Multiple T cell epitope motifs have been identified in a- and y-gliadins as
well as in glutenins. The majority of these showed enhanced T cell recognition after
deamidation. Moreover, celiac disease patients are generally sensitive to more than one
gluten peptide. Although the DQ2/8 interaction represents the most significant
association with celiac disease so far defined, non-immunogenic gluten peptides can
also have an impact on the innate immune system.
                                               14

    [0054]      Gliadin peptides P31-43 and P31-49 are generally not recognized by T
cells. These peptides induce an innate immune response in the celiac mucosa.
Peptide P31-43 delays endocytic vesicle maturation and consequently reduces
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) degradation and prolongs EGFR activation.
The prolonged EGFR activation has been shown to induce increased cell proliferation
and actin modifications in both celiac crypt enterocytes and in cultured cell lines. Upon
entry into intestinal enterocytes or the human intestinal cell line, CaCo2, P31-43
interacts with early endocytic vesicles, reduces their motility and delays their maturation
to late endosomes.
    [0055]      Different gluten peptides are involved in the celiac disease process.
There are two groups of biologically-active peptides that derive from a-gliadin. The
serine-containing group of peptides appears to be essentially cytotoxic, while the
tyrosine-containing group has the capacity to trigger immunological reactions in celiac
disease patients. The activity of the serine-containing peptides is linked to the presence
of PSQQ and QQQP motifs. The tyrosine-containing peptides, e.g., QQPY and/or
QPYP are associated with immunological activity.
    [0056]      Gliadin peptides can vary widely in sequence. A polypeptide that has a
sequence that is identical to a portion of a gliadin sequence and that functions (e.g., for
one or more of the purposes described herein) is a gliadin peptide. A full length gliadin
includes a gliadin paptide sequence and one or more of the peptides described herein
may lie partially or wholly within the gliadin sequence. A peptide that has a sequence
that differs to a certain limited extent from a sequence that is found in a naturally
occurring gliadin and that retains the ability to function (e.g., retains sufficient activity to
confer gliadin peptide toxicity) is a biologically active variant of a gliadin peptide. We
tend to use the terms "gliadin" to refer to full-length, naturally-occurring gliadin proteins,
and we tend to use the terms "polypeptide" and "peptide" when referring to fragments
thereof (i.e., to fragments of gliadin) and biologically active variants thereof. Because
the polypeptides or peptides can have a sequence that is identical to a sequence found
in gliadin, the polypeptides or peptides are derived from fragments of gliadin.
                                               15

    [0057]      While the sequences of the present polypeptides can vary, useful
polypeptides can include fragments of SEQ ID NOs: 7-10. The polypeptides can
include or consist of an amino acid sequence of a gliadin that is naturally expressed in a
plant cell. A biologically active variant can include, for example, an amino acid
sequence that differs from a wild-type fragment of a gliadin by virtue of containing one
or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In some embodiments, at least 50% of
the amino acid residues of the variant are identical to residues in the corresponding
wildtype fragment of a gliadin. Biologically active variants can also include amino acid
sequences that differ from a wild-type fragment of a gliadin by virtue of non
conservative amino acid substitutions, additions, and/or deletions.
    [0058]      We refer to certain amino acid sequences as "polypeptides" to convey that
they are linear polymers of amino acid residues, and to help distinguish them from full
length proteins. It will be understood that the polypeptides can therefore include only a
fragment of a gliadin (or a biologically active variant thereof) but may include additional
residues as well. The polypeptides of the invention can vary in length. For example,
the polypeptides can be 8-40 (es., 12, 14, 16, 18, or 20) amino acids long or longer
(e.g., up to about 40 residues).
    [0059]      The polypeptides that are biologically active variants of a gliadin can be
characterized in terms of the extent to which their sequence is similar to or identical to
the corresponding fragment of the gliadin. For example, the sequence of a biologically
active variant can be at least or about 60% identical to corresponding residues in a wild
type gliadin. For example, a biologically active variant of a gliadin polypeptide can have
an amino acid sequence with at least or about 60% sequence identity (e.g., at least or
about 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, or 99% sequence identity) to
a gliadin (e.g., to the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7-10 or to another
polypeptide as described herein (e.g., a polypeptide represented by, for example, SEQ
ID NOs:1 -6) or to a homolog or ortholog thereof).
    [0060]      A biologically active variant of a gliadin polypeptide will retain sufficient
biological activity to confer toxicity in a subject having a gluten-related disorder. The
                                                16

biological activity can be assessed in ways known to one of ordinary skill in the art and
includes, without limitation, cellular uptake assays, gene expression assays, or in vivo
animal models. Biologically active variants can be identified, for example, by comparing
the relative activities of the variant polypeptide with that of an active fragment of a
gliadin peptide. The assays can include an unrelated control polypeptide (e.g., one
could include in any given assay a peptide that has the same amino acid content
randomly arranged, as well as a vehicle-only control). Some biologically active variants
may even have greater biological activity than the cognate, naturally occurring fragment
or a full-length gliadin. More specifically, a biologically active variant can have at least
or about 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or more of the biological
activity of the native form polypeptide.
    [0061]      Exemplary a-gliadin peptides that play a role in celiac disease include
P31-43, LGQQQPFPPQQPY, (SEQ ID NO.: 1); P31-49 LGQQQPFPPQQPYPQPQPF
(SEQ ID NO: 3); P44-55; PQQPFPSQLP (SEQ ID NO.: 5; P57-68 QLQPFPQPQLPY
(SEQ ID NO.: 2); P56-88, LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID
NO: 4) and P63-76 QPQLPYPQPQLPYP (SEQ ID NO.: 6).
        Food products
    [0062]      The compositions of the invention can include a physiologically
acceptable carrier. The physiological carrier can be a food product or a pharmaceutical
carrier. We use the terms "physiologically acceptable" (or "pharmacologically
acceptable") to refer to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce an
adverse, allergic or other untoward reaction when administered to an animal or a
human, as appropriate. Thus, the compositions of the invention include food products
fermented by the probiotic organism, L. paracasei CBA L74. The food product may
include L. paracasei CBA L74 cells, either live or non-replicating. In some embodiments
the food product can be processed to remove all or substantially all the L. paracasei
CBA L74 cells. Any food product amenable to fermentation by L. paracasei CBA L74
may be used. The food product can be a dairy product, for example, milk or a milk
based product.      Exemplary milk sources include, without limitation, cattle, sheep, goats,
                                               17

yaks, water buffalo, horses, donkeys, reindeer and camels. Regardless of the source,
the milk or milk products can be in any form suitable for fermentation by L. paracasei
CBA L74. For example, the milk can be whole milk or milk that has been processed to
remove some or all of the butterfat, e.g., 2% milk, 1% milk or no-fat milk. Alternatively
or in addition, the milk can be previously pasteurized and or homogenized, dried and
reconstituted, condensed or evaporated. Fractions of milk products including casein,
whey protein or lactose may also be used. In some embodiments, the milk product can
be from about 1% to about 30% reconstituted skim milk powder, for example about 2%,
about 5%, about 7%, about 9%, about 10%, about 12%, about 15%, about 20%, about
25%, about 30% reconstituted skim milk powder. Prior to fermentation the milk product
can be combined with one or more of the following: a) a carbohydrate (e.g., a
disaccharide such as dextrose or a starch; b) a lipid; c) a vitamin and d) a mineral. For
example, skim milk powder may be combined with dextrose to about 2%, e.g., about
0.25%, about 0.50%, about 0.75%, about 1.0%, about 1.5% or about 2.0%.
     [0063]    The food product can be a cereal product, for example, rice, oats, corn,
sorghum, or millet. In some embodiments, the cereal product may be wheat, barley, rye
or triticale. The cereal product can be a whole grain or be milled into a flour. The food
product can be a single kind of cereal or a mixture of two or more kinds of cereals, e.g.,
oat flour plus rice flour. The cereal products can be of a grade and type suitable for
human consumption or can be products suitable for consumption by domestic animals.
Generally, the cereal product is hydrated prior to fermentation. The concentration of
cereal can vary, but useful ranges include from about 5% to about 50% weight/volume,
for example, about 8% weight/volume, about 10% weight/volume, about 12%
weight/volume, about 15% weight/volume, about 18% weight/volume, about 20%
weight/volume, about 22% weight/volume, about 25% weight/volume, about 30%
weight/volume, about 35% weight/volume, about 40% weight/volume, about 45%
weight/volume or about 50% weight/volume. Exemplary concentrations include 15%
weight/volume of rice or a mixture of 18.5% weight/volume oat flour plus 5%
weight/volume of malted barley flour. The pH of the hydrated cereals may be adjusted
using any acid suitable for consumption. The acid can be, for example, an organic acid.
Useful organic acids include acetic acid, citric acid, lactic acid, adipic acid, malic acid
                                             18

and tartaric acid. Any combination of two or more acids can be used. In some
embodiments, the pH may be adjusted to about 4.0 using citric acid.
     [0064]     The food product can also be a vegetable or a fruit product, for example, a
juice, a puree, a concentrate, a paste, a sauce, a pickle or a ketchup. Exemplary
vegetables and fruits include, without limitation, squashes, e.g., zucchini, yellow squash,
winter squash, pumpkin; potatoes, asparagus, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, beans, e.g.,
green beans, wax beans, lima beans, fava beans, soy beans, cabbage, carrots,
cauliflower, cucumbers, kohlrabi, leeks, scallions, onions, sugar peas, English peas,
peppers, turnips, rutabagas, tomatoes, apples, pears, peaches, plums, strawberries,
raspberries, blackberries, blueberries, lingonberries, boysenberries, gooseberries,
grapes, currants, oranges, lemons, grapefruit, bananas, mangos, kiwi fruit, and
carambola.
     [0065]     The food product can also be a "milk" made from tree nuts or legumes, for
example, soymilk or almond milk.
     [0066]     Also contemplated are food products comprising animal proteins, for
example, meat, for example, sausages, dried meats, fish and dried fish products.
     [0067]     Regardless of the type of food product that is used, the product is
combined with L. paracasei CBA L74 and incubated at a temperature and for a time
sufficient for fermentation to occur. Any standard fermentation method known in the art
may be used. Specific fermentation conditions will vary according to many factors
 including, for example, the type of food product, the concentration of the food product,
the instrumentation that is used, the sample volume, the initial concentration of the L.
paracasei CBA L74 inoculum, the presence, if any, of a co-inoculum, the organoleptic
properties of the fermented food, and the intended use of the fermented food.
     [0068]     Both the instrumentation and the substrate (i.e., the food product to be
fermented) are sterilized prior to inoculation with L. paracasei CBA L74 in order to
decrease the level of, or eliminate, viable bacteria and/or fungi and/or infectious viruses.
The instrumentation can be sterilized using standard methods or according to the
                                              19

manufacturer's instructions. Choice of a particular method for sterilization of the
substrate will depend, in part, on the stability of the substrate to the sterilization method.
For example, the substrate can be sterilized by steam and pressure, e.g. by
autoclaving, repeated cycles of heating and cooling (e.g., tyndalization) exposure to
high pressures (e.g., pascalization), ultrafiltration, or radiation (e.g., exposure to
gamma-, x-, e-beam, and/or ultra-violet (wavelength of 10 nm to 320 nm, e.g., 50 nm to
320 nm, 100 nm to 320 nm, 150 nm to 320 nm, 180 nm to 320 nm, or 200 nm to 300
nm). Aliquots of the substrate can be removed following treatment and plated on
suitable media to confirm the absence of bacterial and/or fungal contaminants. If the
substrate has been sterilized by exposure to high temperatures, it should be cooled to
at least 370C prior to inoculation with L. paracasei CBA L74.
    [0069]     The substrate can be inoculated with L. paracasei CBA L74 according to
standard methods, for example, from fresh liquid culture or a freeze-dried culture that
has been resuspended in aqueous medium for a short time prior to inoculation. In
general, L. paracasei CBA L74 are added at concentrations of about 0.5 x 106 to about
1 x 106 cfu/ml of substrate, e.g., about 1 x 106 cfu/ml, about 2 x 106 cfu/ml, about 5 x 106
cfu/ml, 7 x 106 cfu/ml 8x 106 cfu/ml. The culture should be agitated sufficiently to
produce a relatively uniform distribution of bacteria and substrate, but not excessively
since L. paracasei CBA L74 is an anaerobic bacterium. For example, a five liter culture
may be agitated at about 150 rpm. Fermentation temperature is generally at 370C.
Various parameters, for example, the pH, the partial pressure of 02, stirrer speed,
temperature, gas mixing, foam level and substrate concentration can be monitored
during during fermentation and adjusted accordingly. Growth of the L. paracasei CBA
L74 can be monitored using standard microbiological methods. Fermentation is carried
out until the concentration of L. paracasei CBA L74 is about between about 108/ml and
about 109/ml. Depending upon the substrate and other conditions, this concentration
may be reached in about 10 to about 30 hours after inoculation, e.g., about 12 hours,
about 15 hours, about 18 hours, about 24 hours, about 30 hours.
    [0070]     Samples of the substrate can be assayed before, during and after
fermentation for quality assurance using standard microbiological methods. Exemplary
                                               20

methods include, but are not limited to, growth on Rogosa agar for L. paracasei CBA
L74, growth on plate count agar (PCA) for total aerobes, growth on McConkay agar for
coliforms, growth on reinforced clostridial agar (RCM) for Clostridia. In addition to
colony counts, colony morphologies can be observed and compared to reference
samples.
    [0071]     In some embodiments, a co-inoculum can be added along with the L.
paracasei CBA L74 in order to help initiate fermentation. Useful co-inocula for
fermentation of milk products include, for example, without limitation, Streptococcus
thermophilus, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus salivarious, Lactobacillus
rhamnosus, Lactobacillus case, Lactobacillus lactis, Lactobacillus delbrueckii, subsp.
Bulgaricus, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus brevis, or Leuconostoc
mesenteroides. In general, the concentration of the co-inoculum will be lower than that
of L. paracasei CBA L74, for example, about 1 x 104 /ml   x10 5/ml.  The final concentration
of S. thermophilus can range from about 0.5 x 108/ml to about 2.5 x 108/Ml.
    [0072]    Once suitable concentrations of L. paracasei CBA L74 have been
reached, the fermented food can be further processed for use. In some embodiments,
the fermented food can be fractionated to remove all or substantially all of the L.
paracasei CBA L74 cells. In some embodiments, the pH of the fermented food can be
adjusted, for example from about 3.0 to nearer to neutrality, e.g., 6.5, with the addition
of NaOH or KOH. In some embodiments the fermented food can be dried. The
fermented food product can be dried by any method known in the art that will result in
the retention of immunomodulatory properties of the fermented food. Exemplary drying
methods include spray drying, freeze-drying e.g., lyophilization, or drum-drying. The
final water content of the fermented food product may vary but can be between about
1% and about 10% or more.      In some embodiments, the drying process can render the
L. paracasei CBA L74 non-replicating.
    [0073]    The dried fermented foods can be hydrated before use. Depending on the
amount of liquid used in the hydration, the fermented food products may contain the
equivalent of about 102, about 103 , about 104 , about 105 , about 106, about 107 , about
                                             21

108, about 109, about 1010, about 1011 and , about 1012 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74.
The dried L. paracasei CBA L74 do not form colonies, so it is understood that this
amount is calculated based on the number of live bacteria that were present in the
fermented foods prior to the drying step. In some embodiments, the fermented food
products may include the equivalent of about 107 to about       1012 cfu/g, e.g., about 5 x1 07
cfu/g, about 1 x10 8 cfu/g, about 5  x10 8 cfu/g, about 1 x10 9 cfu/g, about 5 x10 9 cfu/g,
about 1 x1 010 cfu/g, about 5 x1 010 cfu/g, about 1 x1 011 cfu/g, about 5 x1 011 cfu/g of dry
weight.
    [0074]     Two or more fermented food products prepared by the methods of the
invention may be combined prior to administration. For example, fermented milk
products may be combined with fermented cereal products. Alternatively, the fermented
food product can be combined with other food products, for example, non-fermented
food products or food products fermented using other bacterial strains. Any
combination can be used provided that the effects on gliadin peptides of the fermented
food are retained. Exemplary food products include, without limitation, dairy products,
e.g., milk, yoghurt, curd, cheese and cheese-based products, fermented milks, milk
based fermented products, milk-based powders, infant formulae, milk-based strained
infant foods, ice cream, gelato, puddings, soups, sauces, purees, or dressings,
nutritional formulas for the elderly; cereal products e.g., pablum, cereal-based strained
infant foods, oatmeal, farina, semolina, polenta, pasta, biscuits, crackers, energy bars;
vegetable products, e.g., purees, vegetable-based strained infant foods, pickled
vegetables including cucumbers, cabbage, carrots, beans, peppers, or relishes; fruit
products, e.g., fruit-based strained infant foods, tomato products, purees, sauces,
pastes, ketchups, fruit purees; or a protein-based products, e.g., legumes, sausages,
lunch meats, hot dogs, or pureed meats. In some embodiments the fermented food
may be combined with pet foods or animal feeds.
        Pharmaceutical compositions
    [0075]     The compositions described herein may be combined with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier," as
                                                22

used herein, includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial,
isotonic and absorption delaying agents, buffers, excipients, binders, lubricants, gels,
surfactants and the like, that may be used as media for a pharmaceutically acceptable
substance.
     [0076]    Thus, the invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions which
contain, as the active ingredient, the L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites
produced by L. paracasei CBA L74 described herein, in combination with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. In some embodiments, the L. paracasei CBA L74
can be sterilized using conventional sterilization techniques before or after it is
combined with the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In making the compositions of
the invention, the L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites produced by L.
paracasei CBA L74, are typically mixed with an excipient, diluted by an excipient or
enclosed within such a carrier in the form of, for example, a capsule, tablet, sachet,
paper, or other container. When the excipient serves as a diluent, it can be a solid,
semisolid, or liquid material (e.g., normal saline), which acts as a vehicle, carrier or
medium for the active ingredient. Thus, the compositions can be in the form of tablets,
pills, powders, lozenges, sachets, cachets, elixirs, suspensions, emulsions, solutions,
syrups, aerosols (as a solid or in a liquid medium), ointments, soft and hard gelatin
capsules, suppositories, sterile injectable solutions, and sterile packaged powders. As
is known in the art, the type of diluent can vary depending upon the intended route of
administration. The resulting compositions can include additional agents, such as
preservatives. The excipient or carrier is selected on the basis of the mode and route of
administration. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers, as well as pharmaceutical necessities
for use in pharmaceutical formulations, are described in Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences (E. W. Martin), a well-known reference text in this field, and in the USP/NF
(United States Pharmacopeia and the National Formulary). Some examples of suitable
excipients include lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches, gum acacia,
calcium phosphate, alginates, tragacanth, gelatin, calcium silicate, microcrystalline
cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, cellulose, water, syrup, and methyl cellulose. The
formulations can additionally include: lubricating agents such as talc, magnesium
stearate, and mineral oil; wetting agents; emulsifying and suspending agents;
                                              23

preserving agents such as methyl- and propylhydroxy-benzoates; sweetening agents;
and flavoring agents. The pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated so as to
provide quick, sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration
to the patient by employing procedures known in the art.
    [0077]     Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions for use in the present methods,
including those in which L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites produced by
L. paracasei CBA L74, are entrapped in a colloid for oral delivery, can be prepared
according to standard techniques. The L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more
metabolites produced by L. paracasei CBA L74, can be dried and compacted by
grinding or pulverizing and inserted into a capsule for oral administration. In some
embodiments, the L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites produced by L.
paracasei CBA L74, can be combined one or more excipients, for example, a
disintegrant, a filler, a glidant, or a preservative. Suitable capsules include both hard
shell capsules or soft-shelled capsules. Any lipid-based or polymer-based colloid may
be used to form the capusule. Exemplary polymers useful for colloid preparations
include gelatin, plant polysaccharides or their derivatives such as carrageenans and
modified forms of starch and cellulose, e.g., hypromellose. Optionally, other ingredients
may be added to the gelling agent solution, for example plasticizers such as glycerin
and/or sorbitol to decrease the capsule's hardness, coloring agents, preservatives,
disintegrants, lubricants and surface treatment. In some embodiments, the capsule
does not include gelatin. In other embodiments, the capsule does not include plant
polysaccharides or their derivatives.
    [0078]     Regardless of their original source or the manner in which they are
obtained, the L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites produced by L.
paracasei CBA L74, can be formulated in accordance with their use. These
compositions can be prepared in a manner well known in the pharmaceutical art, and
can be administered by a variety of routes, depending upon whether local or systemic
treatment is desired and upon the area to be treated. Administration may be oral or
topical (including ophthalmic and to mucous membranes including intranasal, vaginal
and rectal delivery). In some embodiments, administration can be pulmonary (e.g., by
                                                24

inhalation or insufflation of powders or aerosols, including by nebulizer; intratracheal,
intranasal, epidermal and transdermal) or ocular. Methods for ocular delivery can
include topical administration (eye drops), subconjunctival, periocular or intravitreal
injection or introduction by balloon catheter or ophthalmic inserts surgically placed in the
conjunctival sac. Parenteral administration includes intravenous, intraarterial,
subcutaneous, intraperitoneal or intramuscular injection or infusion; or intracranial, e.g.,
intrathecal or intraventricular administration. Parenteral administration can be in the
form of a single bolus dose, or may be, for example, by a continuous perfusion pump.
Pharmaceutical compositions and formulations for topical administration may include
transdermal patches, ointments, lotions, creams, gels, drops, suppositories, sprays,
liquids, powders, and the like. Conventional pharmaceutical carriers, aqueous, powder
or oily bases, thickeners and the like may be necessary or desirable.
    [0079]      The compositions can be formulated in a unit dosage form, each dosage
containing, for example, from about 0.005 mg to about 2000 mg of L. paracasei CBA
L74 or one or more metabolites produced by L. paracasei CBA L74, per daily dose. In
some embodiments, the compositions may contain the equivalent of about 102, about
103, about 104, about 105, about 106, about 107, about 108, about 109, about 1010, about
1011 and , about 1012 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74. The term "unit dosage forms"
refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages for human subjects and
other mammals, each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active material
calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect, in association with a suitable
pharmaceutical excipient. For preparing solid compositions such as tablets, the principal
active ingredient is mixed with a pharmaceutical excipient to form a solid preformulation
composition containing a homogeneous mixture of a compound of the present
invention. When referring to these preformulation compositions as homogeneous, the
active ingredient is typically dispersed evenly throughout the composition so that the
composition can be readily subdivided into equally effective unit dosage forms such as
tablets, pills and capsules. This solid preformulation is then subdivided into unit dosage
forms of the type described above containing from, for example, 0.005 mg to about
1000 mg of the L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites produced by L.
paracasei CBA L74, of the present invention.
                                              25

    [0080]    The compositions can be formulated in a unit dosage form, each dosage
containing, for example, from about 0.1 mg to about 50 mg, from about 0.1 mg to about
40 mg, from about 0.1 mg to about 20 mg, from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg, from
about 0.2 mg to about 20 mg, from about 0.3 mg to about 15 mg, from about 0.4 mg to
about 10 mg, from about 0.5 mg to about 1 mg; from about 0.5 mg to about 100 mg,
from about 0.5 mg to about 50 mg, from about 0.5 mg to about 30 mg,, from about 0.5
mg to about 20 mg, from about 0.5 mg to about 10 mg, from about 0.5 mg to about 5
mg; from about 1 mg from to about 50 mg, from about 1 mg to about 30 mg,, from about
1 mg to about 20 mg, from about 1 mg to about 10 mg, from about 1 mg to about 5 mg;
from about 5 mg to about 50 mg, from about 5 mg to about 20 mg, from about 5 mg to
about 10 mg; from about 10 mg to about 100 mg, from about 20 mg to about 200 mg,
from about 30 mg to about 150 mg, from about 40 mg to about 100 mg, from about 50
mg to about 100 mg of the active ingredient.
    [0081]     In some embodiments, tablets or pills of the present invention can be
coated or otherwise compounded to provide a dosage form affording the advantage of
prolonged action. For example, the tablet or pill can comprise an inner dosage and an
outer dosage component, the latter being in the form of an envelope over the former.
The two components can be separated by an enteric layer which serves to resist
disintegration in the stomach and permit the inner component to pass intact into the
duodenum or to be delayed in release. A variety of materials can be used for such
enteric layers or coatings, such materials including a number of polymeric acids and
mixtures of polymeric acids with such materials as shellac, cetyl alcohol, and cellulose
acetate.
    [0082]    The liquid forms in which the compositions of the present invention can be
incorporated for administration orally or by injection include aqueous solutions, suitably
flavored syrups, aqueous or oil suspensions, and flavored emulsions with edible oils
such as cottonseed oil, sesame oil, coconut oil, or peanut oil, as well as elixirs and
similar pharmaceutical vehicles.
                                             26

    [0083]     The proportion or concentration of the compositions of the invention in a
pharmaceutical composition can vary depending upon a number of factors including
dosage, chemical characteristics (e.g., hydrophobicity), and the route of administration.
For example, the L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more metabolites produced by L.
paracasei CBA L74, of the invention can be provided in a capsule containing from about
0.005 mg gram to about 1000 mg for oral administration.
Methods of use
        Gluten-related disorders
    [0084]     The compositions disclosed herein are generally and variously useful for
treatment of gluten-related disorders. Subjects for whom such treatment is beneficial
include those who experience or who are at risk for toxic effects upon ingestion of
gluten and gluten-related polypeptides. Such toxic effects can encompass a wide
spectrum of symptoms including, but not limited to inflammation, autoimmune reactions,
gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea, steatorrhea, abdominal distension, weight
loss, anemia, osteoporosis, arthritis, infertility, peripheral neuropathy, liver failure, and
depression. Gliadin peptide toxicity can stem from cytotoxic or immunological
mechanisms or a combination of cytotoxic and immunological mechanisms. A symptom
of gliadin peptide toxicity can include inflammation, autoimmune reactions,
gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea, steatorrhea, abdominal distension, weight
loss, anemia, osteoporosis, arthritis, infertility, peripheral neuropathy, liver failure, and
depression. Gluten-related disorders include celiac disease, including the various
subtypes, e.g., classical celiac disease, atypical celiac disease, latent celiac disease,
and silent celiac disease, dermatitis herptiformis, gluten ataxia and gluten sensitivity.
    [0085]     The subtypes of celiac disease include classical celiac disease, atypical
celiac disease, latent celiac disease, and silent celiac disease. The classical symptoms
associated with celiac disease are diarrhea, abdominal distension, and failure to thrive.
These symptoms are most commonly seen in children between 6 and 24 months of
age. Atypical celiac disease is characterized by milder gastrointestinal symptoms. It is
associated with extra-intestinal manifestations, such as iron deficiency anemia,
                                                27

osteoporosis, short stature, arthritis, infertility, peripheral neuropathy,
hypertransaminasemia, and, in some cases, liver failure at the time of diagnosis. Latent
celiac disease applies to patients who carry HLA-DQ2 and/or HLA-DQ8, with or without
positive serology, and who have not yet developed villous atrophy but may have mild
inflammation or immune activation. Patients in this subset may be asymptomatic or
may have extra-intestinal manifestations. Silent celiac disease is characterized by
positive serology and villous atrophy in an otherwise asymptomatic patient. After
undertaking a gluten-free diet some asymptomatic patients will notice improvement in
different physical and psychological aspects of their life, such as improved appetite,
reduced fatigue, or fewer behavioral abnormalities. Regardless of the subtype, many
celiac disease cases go undiagnosed, which exposes patients to the risk of long-term
complications, for example, infertility and malignancies, e.g., lymphoma and intestinal
carcinoma.
     [0086]    Presentation of celiac disease can vary widely. Celiac disease typically
presents in children as a disease of failure to thrive associated with classic symptoms of
malabsorption: predominately weight loss, steatorrhea, and multiple deficiencies,
although other extra-intestinal symptoms, for example, failure of axial height
development and delayed menarche in girls may be present.
     [0087]    Celiac disease prevalence is increased in at-risk conditions, such as a
family history of celiac disease, autoimmune diseases, IgA deficiency, some genetic
syndromes (Down syndrome, Turner syndrome and William syndromes) and especially
type 1 diabetes and thyroiditis.
     [0088]    Genetic predisposition plays a significant role in celiac disease. Celiac
disease is strongly associated with specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II
genes, HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8, located on chromosome 6p21. Most celiac disease
patients (approximately 95%) express genes encoding the major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) class II protein HLA-DQ2. The remaining patients are usually HLA
DQ8-positive. The HLA-DQ2 haplotype is common and is carried by approximately 30%
of Caucasian individuals, implying that the presence of HLA-DQ2 and/or HLA-DQ8 is
                                                 28

necessary for disease development but not sufficient on its own as its estimated risk
effect is only 36% to 53%. Non-HLA genes also contribute to celiac disease
predisposition.
    [0089]     Diagnosis of celiac disease typically relies on multiple criteria including: 1)
presentation with typical celiac disease symptoms; 2) positivity of serological tests,
including, for example, high titer IgA antibodies to tTG (anti-tTG), high titer antibodies to
deamidated a-gliadin peptides; 3) HLA-DQ2 and/or HLA-DQ8 genotypes; 4) celiac
enteropathy found on small bowel biopsy; and 5) response to a gluten-free diet. The
wide variability of celiac disease presentation has prompted some clinicians to adopt a
quantitative approach defined as the 'four out of five rule'. That is, the diagnosis of
celiac disease is confirmed if at least four of the five criteria are fulfilled.
    [0090]     Dermatitis herpetiformis is a skin manifestation of celiac disease
presenting with blistering rash and pathognomonic cutaneous IgA deposits. The
predominant symptoms are intense itching and burning. The rash has a characteristic
symmetrical distribution. The elbows and upper forearms are affected in more than 90%
of patients. Other sites commonly involved are the buttocks, knees, shoulders, sacrum,
face, scalp, neck and trunk. Celiac-type villous atrophy in the upper small intestinal
mucosa is found in 65% to 75% of patients with dermatitis herpetiformis. Even in
patients with apparently normal biopsies, subtle changes in the mucosa, such as an
increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes, indicate gluten sensitization.
Dermatitis herpetiformis patients may show the same array of manifestations,
associated disorders and complications as in patients with celiac disease (autoimmune
diseases, iron-deficient anemia, osteoporosis and malignancy). Dermatitis
herpetiformis patients are generally put on a gluten-free diet because the rash of
dermatitis herpetiformis is gluten sensitive.
    [0091]      Gluten ataxia has been defined as otherwise idiopathic sporadic ataxia
with positive serological markers for gluten sensitization. Like celiac disease, it is an
autoimmune disease characterized by damage to the cerebellum resulting in ataxia.
Gluten ataxia patients typically have high titer anti-gliadin antibodies. Widespread
                                              29

deposition of transglutaminase antibodies has been found around brain vessels in
patients with gluten ataxia. Gluten ataxia usually presents with pure cerebellar ataxia
or, rarely, ataxia in combination with myoclonus, palatal tremor or opsoclonus
myoclonus. Gluten ataxia is usually of insidious onset with a mean age at onset of 53
years. Many patients will have evidence of enteropathy on intestinal biopsy. Patients
positive for anti-gliadin antibodies or anti-tTG antibodies with no alternative cause for
their ataxia are typically put on a strict gluten-free diet with regular follow-up.
     [0092]     Gluten sensitivity, also referred to as non-celiac gluten sensitivity or
gluten-intolerance, is generally characterized as a functional, morphological and
immunological disorder that lacks all of the features of celiac disease, but nevertheless
responds to gluten exclusion. Gluten sensitivity is distinct from celiac disease and is not
accompanied by anti-tTG autoantibodies or other autoimmune comorbidities. The small
intestine of gluten sensitivity patients is typically normal. The symptoms of gluten
sensitivity may resemble those associated with celiac disease but with a prevalence of
extra-intestinal symptoms, such as behavioral changes, bone or joint pain, muscle
cramps, leg numbness, weight loss and chronic fatigue. There are no laboratory
biomarkers specific for gluten sensitivity. Usually the diagnosis is based on exclusion
criteria; an elimination diet of gluten-containing foods followed by an open challenge is
most often used to evaluate whether health improves with the elimination or reduction of
gluten from the patient's diet.
        Methods of treatment
     [0093]     A subject is effectively treated whenever a clinically beneficial result
ensues. This may mean, for example, a complete resolution of the symptoms
associated with a gluten-related disorder, a decrease in the severity of the symptoms
associated with a gluten-related disorder, or a slowing of the progression of symptoms
associated with a gluten-related disorder. These methods can further include the steps
of a) identifying a subject (e.g., a patient and, more specifically, a human patient) who
has a gluten-related disorder; and b) providing to the subject a composition comprising
L. paracasei CBA L74 or one or more L. paracasei CBA L74 metabolite described
                                                30

herein, such as any fermented food product or composition comprising L. paracasei
CBA L74 in a physiologically acceptable carrier. An amount of such a composition
provided to the subject that results in a complete resolution of the symptoms associated
with a gluten-related disorder, a decrease in the severity of the symptoms associated
with a gluten-related disorder, or a slowing of the progression of symptoms associated
with a gluten-related disorder is considered a therapeutically effective amount. The
present methods may also include a monitoring step to help optimize dosing and
scheduling as well as predict outcome.
    [0094]     The methods disclosed herein can be applied to a wide range of species,
e.g., humans, non-human primates (e.g., monkeys), horses, pigs, cows or other
livestock, dogs, cats or other mammals kept as pets, rats, mice, or other laboratory
animals. The compositions described herein are useful in therapeutic compositions and
regimens or for the manufacture of a medicament for use in treatment of conditions as
described herein (e.g., a gluten-related disorder.)
    [0095]     The compositions described herein can be administered orally as part of
the ordinary daily diet of a subject. The food compositions may be administered as
nutritional support to both children and adults. When formulated as pharmaceuticals,
the compositions can be administered to any part of the host's body for subsequent
delivery to a target cell. A composition can be delivered to, without limitation, the brain,
the cerebrospinal fluid, joints, nasal mucosa, blood, lungs, intestines, muscle tissues,
skin, or the peritoneal cavity of a mammal. In terms of routes of delivery, a composition
can be administered by intravenous, intracranial, intraperitoneal, intramuscular,
subcutaneous, intramuscular, intrarectal, intravaginal, intrathecal, intratracheal,
intradermal, or transdermal injection, by oral or nasal administration, or by gradual
perfusion over time. In a further example, an aerosol preparation of a composition can
be given to a host by inhalation.
    [0096]     Regardless of whether the compositions are formulated as food products
or as pharmaceuticals, the dosage required will depend on the route of administration,
the nature of the formulation, the nature of the subject's condition, e.g., immaturity of the
                                             31

immune system or a gastrointestinal disorder, the subject's size, weight, surface area,
age, and sex, other drugs being administered, and the judgment of the attending
clinicians. Suitable dosages are in the range of 0.01-1,000 mg/kg. Some typical dose
ranges are from about 1 pg/kg to about 1 g/kg of body weight per day. In some
embodiments, the dose range is from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg of body
weight per day. In some embodiments, the dose can be, for example, 1 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg,
5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg or 100 mg/kg. The dosage is likely to depend
on such variables as the type and extent of progression of the disease or disorder, the
overall health status of the particular patient, the relative biological efficacy of the
compound selected, formulation of the excipient, and its route of administration.
    [0097]      Effective doses can be extrapolated from dose-response curves derived
from in vitro or animal model test systems. For example, analysis of effects on cell
entry of gliadin peptides in cell-based assays can be useful. Compositions can also be
assayed for effects on antibody responses, cytokine productions, and T-cell responses.
    [0098]      Wide variations in the needed dosage are to be expected in view of the
spectrum of symptoms associated with gluten-related disorders, the variety of cellular
targets and the differing efficiencies of various routes of administration. Variations in
these dosage levels can be adjusted using standard empirical routines for optimization,
as is well understood in the art. Administrations can be single or multiple (e.g., 2- or 3-,
4-, 6-, 8-, 10-, 20-, 50-, 100-, 150-, or more fold). Encapsulation of the compounds in a
suitable delivery vehicle (e.g., polymeric microparticles or implantable devices) may
increase the efficiency of delivery.
    [0099]      The duration of treatment with any composition provided herein can be
any length of time from as short as one day to as long as the life span of the host (e.g.,
many years). For example, a composition can be administered once a week (for, for
example, 4 weeks to many months or years); once a month (for example, three to
twelve months or for many years); or once a year for a period of 5 years, ten years, or
longer. It is also noted that the frequency of treatment can be variable. For example,
                                               32

the present compositions can be administered once (or twice, three times, etc.) daily,
weekly, monthly, or yearly.
    [00100]      Any method known to those in the art can be used to determine if a
particular response is induced. Clinical methods that can assess the degree of a
particular disease state can be used to determine if a response is induced. For
example, a subject can be monitored for symptomatic relief, e.g., relief from diarrhea,
abdominal pain, cramping, abdominal distention and ability to tolerate a gluten
challenge. Alternatively or in addition, serum markers, imaging techniques, e.g.,
ultrasound, x-rays, and endoscopic methods can be used.
    [00101]     The compositions may also be administered in conjunction with other
therapeutic modalities. These therapeutic modalities will vary according to the
particular disorder, but can include, for example, dietary remedies, such as a gluten-free
diet. In some embodiments, dietary remedies can include the introduction of wheat
products from strains that have been engineered by selective breeding or recombinant
technologies to express forms of gliadin that have reduced numbers of toxic T cell
epitopes. In some embodiments, a dietary remedy can include administration of a
prebiotic, i.e., an agent that stimulates the growth or activity of one of more species of
intestinal flora that confer health benefits to the host. Exemplary prebiotics include
trans-galactooligosaccharide, inulin, fructooligosaccharide and lactulose.
    [00102]     Other therapeutic modalities include administration of a therapeutic agent.
A therapeutic agent can be an enzyme, for example an endopeptidase (also referred to
as glutenase) that degrades gluten by targeting the proline-rich peptides that otherwise
resist the body's natural proteases and contain highly immunogenic peptides.
Exemplary endopeptidases include prolyl endopeptidases and ALVO03, a combination
of a cysteine endoprotease derived from germinating barley seeds and a prolyl
endopeptidase from Sphingomonas capsulate.
    [00103]     Other therapeutic agents include inhibitors of the increased intestinal
permeability typical of celiac disease, for example, AT-1 001 (larazotide) an octapeptide
inhibitor of paracellular permeability that inhibits gliadin-induced cytoskeleton
                                               33

rearrangement of intestinal epithelial cells, tight junction disassembly, and peak F-actin
increment. Other therapeutic agents include tTG inhibitors, immune system modulators
and desensitization therapy with peptide-based vaccines (Nevvax2).
    [00104]    Concurrent administration of two or more therapeutic agents does not
require that the agents be administered at the same time or by the same route, as long
as there is an overlap in the time period during which the agents are exerting their
therapeutic effect. Simultaneous or sequential administration is contemplated, as is
administration on different days or weeks.
Articles of manufacture
The compositions described herein can also be assembled in kits, together with
instructions for use. For example, the kits can include measured amounts of a
composition including one or more food products fermented with L. paracasei CBA L74.
The instructions for use can be conveyed by any suitable media. For example, they can
be printed on a paper insert in one or more languages or supplied audibly or visually
(e.g., on a compact disc). The packaging materials can include packaging materials, for
example, vials, packets, containers. In some embodiments, the kits can include
measured amounts of a composition comprising L. paracasei CBA L74 in a
physiologically acceptable carrier along with packaging materials and instructions for
use in any or the formats described above. In some embodiments, the kits can include
measured amounts of a composition comprising one or more L. paracasei CBA L74
metabolites. In some embodiments the compositions can exclude L. paracasei CBA
L74 cells, that is the metabolites can be partially or substantially separated from the L.
paracasei CBA L74 cells. The components of the kit may be suitable for immediate
use. The invention encompasses kits, however, that include concentrated formulations
and/or materials that may require dilution prior to use.
Examples
Example 1: Materials and Methods
                                              34

   [00105]     Peptides: a-gliadin P31-P43 (SEQ ID NO.: 1) and P57-68 (SEQ ID NO.:
2) were synthesized in vitro and bound to the fluorochrome, lissamine, by Inbios,
Naples, Italy. Chromatographic analyses indicated that the peptides were 99% pure.
   [00106]     Caco2 peptide entry assay: Cultures of Caco2 cells, a human epithelial
colon carcinoma cell line, were incubated with the labeled peptides for 15 minutes. The
labeled peptides were removed by repeated washing and the cells were examined
under a confocal microscope. Morphological analysis showed that after 15 minutes of
incubation, labeled peptides had entered the cells and localized to endocytotic vesicles,
which appeared as small colored spots. Quantitative analysis was performed using a
dedicated software package that evaluated the fluorescence intensity of multiple
microscopic fields.
   [00107]     Caco2 cell culture: CaCo-2 cells were grown in Dulbecco's Modified
Eagle's Medium (DMEM) (GIBCO, San Giuliano Milanese, Italy), 10% fetal bovine
serum (FBS) (GIBCO, San Giuliano Milanese, Italy) and 1 mM glutamine (GIBCO, San
Giuliano Milanese, Italy), in an incubator at a temperature of 370C at a C02
concentration of 5%.
   [00108]     L. paracaseiCBA L74 culture: L. Paracasei CBA L74 (International
depository accession number LMG P-24778) was isolated as described in WO
2012/177556, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Cells were grown
in 50 ml of DMEM supplemented with FBS and Glu, overnight at 37 0 C at 160
oscillations per minute. The bacterial concentration was measured
spectrophotometrically in a Beckman DU-7 spectrophotometer, at a wavelength of 600
nm. The Optical Density (OD) reading was used to calculate the bacterial concentration
as follows: OD 2 = 1.5 x 109 cfu/ ml. The different bacterial concentrations used for the
experiments were obtained by diluting bacterial culture in fresh medium without
antibiotic. For the experiments using supernatant alone, the bacterial culture was
centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 10 minutes at room temperature. The supernatant was
recovered and filtered through an 0.2 micron pore size filter.
                                             35

    [00109]     Gliadin peptides and EGF-Alexa-488: Synthetic peptides (Inbios, 95%
purity, MALDI-toff analysis as expected) were obtained by Ultrasart-D20 (Sartorius AG,
Goettingen, Germany) filtration. The P31-43 peptide had the amino acid sequence:
LGQQQPFPPQQPY (SEQ ID NO.: 1). The P57-68 peptide had the amino acid
sequence: QLQPFPQPQLPY (SEQ ID NO.: 1). Peptides were coniugated with
lissamine, a red fluorocrome excited by HeNel laser (543 nm) with 610 nm long band
emission. EGF-Alexa-488 was obtained from Molecular Probes, San Giuliano
Milanese, Italy.
    [00110]      Fluorescence assay: We tested the effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 on
gliadin peptides or EGF-Alexa entrance in Caco-2 cells. Caco2 cells were grown on
sterile glass coverslips, transferred into a 24-well plates and treated with different
concentrations of L. paracasei CBA L74, in a range from 104 to 108 cfu/ml. For
experiments using cell-free supernantant, Caco2 cells were treated with L. paracasei
CBA L74, supernatant from collected from L. paracasei CBA L74 cultures that had
reached a density of 108 cfu/ml. The supernatant was used fresh or after exposure to
heat. In some experiments, the supernatant was heated at 800C for 15 minutes. In
other experiments, the supernatant was boiled for 5 minutes. Caco2 cells were treated
with the different bacterial preparations in a 5% C02 atmosphere at 370C, for 30
minutes and then incubated with gliadin peptides P31-43-lissamine (liss) or P57-68*ss or
with EGF-Alexa-488. Peptide concentrations were as follows: P31-43ss, and P57-68"ss
at 20 micrograms/ml: unlabeled peptides were used at 50 micrograms/ml; EGF-Alexa
488 at 10 micrograms/ml. After the addition of the peptides, the cells were incubated in
5% C02 atmosphere at 37       0C for 30 minutes. The medium was then removed by three
washes with PBS 1X (Gibco). Coverslips were briefly fixed (5 minutes) with
paraformaldehyde 3% (Sigma-Aldrich) at room temperature, then mounted and
observed by confocal microscope (LSM 510 Zeiss). Images were generated and
analyzed with AIS Zeiss software to evaluate the intensity of fluorescence of the
microscopic field under consideration. Magnification of the micrographs was the same
for all the figures shown (63x objective). The labeled peptides and EGF-Alexa appeared
in endocytosis vesicles that appear as small dots colored in red (peptides) or green
(EGF).
                                              36

    [00111]    Statistical analysis: Statistical analysis and graphics were obtained from
GraphPad Prism. Mean and standard deviations were calculated. These were
evaluated by Student's t test. Results having values of p <0.05 were considered
significant.
Example 2: Effect of live L. paracasei CBA L74 on a-gliadin peptide entry
    [00112]     Live L. paracasei CBA L74 reduced entry of both P31-43 and P57-68 into
CaCo2 cells. Confocal fluoresence images are shown in Figure 1. Control cells (left
panels) that were incubated with lissamine labeled P31-43 in the absence of L.
paracasei CBA L74, showed distinct patterns of fluorescence that corresponded to P31
43 containing endocytic vesicles (white arrows). In contrast, fluorescence was reduced
in cells that were incubated with lissamine labeled P31-43 in the presence of L.
paracasei CBA L74 (right panels).
    [00113]    Quantitative analysis indicated that the effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 on
entry of P31-43 was dose-dependent and statistically significant. Figure 2 shows the
results of five independent experiments on duplicate samples. Fluorescence intensity
was calculated for 30 random fields in each sample. As shown in Figure 2, treatment of
CaCo2 cells with 104, 106 and 108 L. paracasei CBA L74, resulted in a statistically
significant, dose-dependent decrease in P31-43 entry.
    [00114]    A similar effect was observed for the P57-68 peptide. The experiment
shown in Figure 3 was performed exactly as the experiment of Figure 2, except that
P57-68 was used in place of P31-43. As shown in Figure 3, treatment of CaCo2 cells
with 104, 106 and 108 L. paracasei CBA L74, resulted in a statistically significant, dose
dependent decrease in P57-68 entry.
Example 3: Effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 isolated DNA on a-gliadin peptide
entry
    [00115]     DNA from L. paracasei CBA L74 was extracted and purified by standard
methods. As shown in Figure 4, treatment of CaCo2 cells with P31-43 in the presence
                                               37

of an amount of L. paracasei CBA L74 DNA equivalent to that of 108 cells, did not block
peptide entry.
Example 4: Effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant on a-gliadin
peptide entry
    [00116]    L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant was collected by centrifugation
and the culture supernatant was filtered to remove live bacteria and cell debris.
Supernatant from the equivalent of 108 cells was applied to CaCo2 cells in the presence
of peptide P31-43. Control CaCO2 cells were treated with 108 live L. paracasei CBA
L74 cells. Figure 5 shows the results of four independent experiments on duplicate
samples. Fluorescence intensity was calculated for 30 random fields in each sample.
    [00117]    As depicted in the bar graph in Figure 5a, treatment of CaCo2 cells with
live L. paracasei CBA L74 cells again resulted in a statistically significant decrease in
peptide P31-43 entry. Treatment of CaCo2 cells with L. paracasei CBA L74 culture
supernatant resulted in a decrease of a similar magnitude. Confocal images for this
experiment are shown in Figure 5b. These images clearly show that L. paracasei CBA
L74 culture supernatant reduced peptide P31-43 entry.
    [00118]    The results of a similar experiment in which P57-68 was substituted for
P31-43 is shown in Figure 6. Treatment of CaCo2 cells with live L. paracasei CBA L74
cells again resulted in a statistically significant decrease in peptide P57-68 entry (Figure
6a). Treatment of CaCo2 cells with a L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant
resulted in a decrease of a similar magnitude. Confocal images for this experiment are
shown in Figure 6b. These images clearly show that L. paracasei CBA L74 culture
supernatant reduced peptide P57-68 entry.
Example 5: Effect of heat-treated L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant on a
gliadin peptide entry
    [00119]    L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant was collected according to the
method of Example 4 and then heated for 30 minutes at either 370 or 800C for 30
minutes. The heated supernatants were then cooled and applied to Caco2 cells in the
                                                38

presence of P31-43. Figure 7 shows the results of five independent experiments on
duplicate samples for control cells that were not treated supernatant, five independent
experiments on duplicate samples for control cells treated with unheated supernatant
("370C") and two independent experiments on duplicate samples for cells that had been
treated with heated supernatant heated ("80oC") . Fluorescence intensity was
calculated for 30 random fields in each sample. As shown in Figure 7, supernatant
heated to 800C retained the ability of unheated supernatant to block peptide P31-43
entry into CaCo2 cells. Confocal images for this experiment are shown in the right
panel of Figure 7. These images clearly show that heat-treated L. paracasei CBA L74
culture supernatant reduced peptide P31-43 entry to the same extent as did non-heat
treated L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant. Taken together, these data
suggested that the effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant did not result
from enzymatic activity.
Example 6: Effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 fermented rice and fermented oats on
a-gliadin peptide entry
    [00120]     L. paracasei CBA L74 fermented rice was prepared. Fermented rice,
supernatant from the fermented rice, or heat-treated supernatant from the fermented
rice was applied to CaCo 2 cells in the presence of peptide P31-43 and peptide entry
was monitored according to the method of Example 2. As shown in Figure 8, all three
treatments- fermented rice, supernatant from the fermented rice, or heat-treated
supernatant from the fermented rice reduced peptide entry relative to untreated CaCo2
cells. As shown in Figure 9, the reduction in peptide P31-43 entry in the presence of
fermented rice was statistically significant (right-hand bars). A similar, statistically
significant effect was observed in the presence of fermented oats (left hand bars).
Example 7: Effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 fermented rice and fermented oats on
Dextran-Texas Red entry into Caco2 cells
    [00121]    L. paracasei CBA L74 fermented rice and fermented oats were prepared.
As shown in Figure 10, incubation of CaCo2 cells with either fermented rice or
fermented oats resulted in a statistically significant reduction in cell entry of Dextran
                                              39

Texas Red relative to cells that had been treated with unfermented rice or oats
respectively. Since Dextran is generally taken up by cells via macropinocytosis, these
data suggested that L. paracasei CBA L74 metabolites can block the macropinocytotic
pathway.
Example 8: Effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant on epidermal
growth factor (EGF) entry into Caco2 cells
    [00122]   L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant was collected according to the
method of Example 4 and applied to Caco2 cells in the presence of Alexa Fluor@
conjugated EGF (Invitrogen). As depicted in the bar graph in Figure 11, treatment of
CaCo2 cells with L. paracasei CBA L74 culture supernatant resulted in a statistically
significant decrease in cell entry of EGF. Confocal images for this experiment are
shown in Figure 12. Since EGF uptake requires specific receptor binding, e.g., to an
EGF receptor, these data suggested that L. paracasei CBA L74 metabolites can block
the clathrin-mediated endocytotic pathway.
        Example 9: Concentration-dependent effect of of L. paracasei CBA L74 on
P31-43 and P57-68 entry into Caco2 cells
    [00123]   Caco2 cells were treated with increasing concentrations of L. Paracasei
CBA L74 and then incubated with gliadin peptides P31-43"ss or P57-68"ss as described
in Example 1. Endocytosis vesicles that contained labeled P31-43 or labeled P57-68
appeared as red spots with a cytosolic distribution after 30 minutes of exposure. L.
paracasei CBA L74 treatment resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in both P31-43
and P57-68 entry into Caco-2 cells. As shown in Figures 13b, 13c, and 13d, for P31-43,
treatment with 104, 106 and 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74, respectively resulted in
a reduction of fluorescence intensity relative to that seen in untreated control cells
(Figure 13a). White arrows indicate vesicles containing P31-43Iss.These results are
presented quantitatively in Figure 14. . Fluorescence intensity was calculated for 30
random fields for each sample. The data in Figure 14 were representative of five
independent experiments. The bar graph in Figure 14 compares fluorescence intensity
for untreated control cells ("UN") with that of cells that were exposed to P31-43"ss in the
                                              40

presence of 104, 106 or 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74 cells. Treatment with L.
paracasei CBA L74 resulted in a statistically significant decrease in fluorescence
intensity of 50%, 70% and 75%,, respectively for 104, 106 or 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei
CBA L74 cells (***=p<0,001).
    [00124]     As shown in Figures 15b, 15c, and 15d, for P57-68s*, treatment with 104,
106 and 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74, respectively resulted in a reduction of
fluorescence intensity relative to that seen in untreated control cells (Figure 15a). White
arrows indicate vesicles containing P5 7 -6 8 ss. These results are presented
quantitatively in Figure 16. Fluorescence intensity was calculated for 30 random fields
for each sample. The data in Figure 16 were representative of five independent
experiments. The bar graph in Figure 16 compares fluorescence intensity for untreated
control cells ("UN") with that of cells that were exposed to P5 7 -6 8 ss in the presence of
104, 106 or 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74 cells. Treatment with L. paracasei CBA
L74 resulted in a statistically significant decrease in fluorescence intensity of 25%, 25%
and 50%, respectively for 104, 106 or 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74 cells. .As
shown in Figures 15B, 15C and 15D, for P57-68, treatment with 104, 106 and 108 cfu/ml
of L. paracasei CBA L74 resulted in a reduction of fluorescence intensity of 25%, 25%
and 50%, respectively, relative to untreated control cells (***=p<0,001).
    [00125]    As shown in Figure 17, treatment with 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74
reduced fluorescence intensity by 75% for P31-43 and by 50% for P57-68. These data
suggested that L. paracasei CBA L74 may be more efficient in reducing P41-43
entrance than in reducing P57-68 entrance, possibly reflecting different endocytotic
pathways.
        Example 10: Concentration-dependent effect of of L. paracasei CBA 174
supernatant on P31-43 and P57-68 entry into Caco2 cells
    [00126]    Caco2 cells were treated with L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant or L.
paracasei CBA L74 DNA as described in Example 1. The Caco2 cells were incubated
for 30 minutes in supernatant or DNA from the equivalent of 108 cfu/ml. As shown in
Figures 18b and 18c, treatment with either L. paracasei CBA L74 cells or L. paracasei
                                               41

CBA L74 supernatant, respectively, resulted in a reduction in fluorescence intensity in
cells exposed to P3 1 -4 3 s*, relative to that seen in untreated control cells (Figure 18a).
These results are presented quantitatively in Figure 19. Fluorescence intensity was
calculated for 30 random fields for each sample. The data in Figure 19 were
representative of five independent experiments. The bar graph in Figure 19 compares
fluorescence intensity for untreated control cells ("UN") with that of cells that were
exposed to P31-43-iss in the presence of 108 cfu/ml of L. paracasei CBA L74 cells ("LP
108",) or L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant from a culture of 108 cfu/ml L. paracasei
CBA L74 ("Sup LP 108",). As shown in Figure 19, the L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant
significantly reduced P31-43 entry into Caco2 cells, calculated as reduction of
fluorescence intensity, by about 25% relative to untreated control cells (***=p<0.001).
    [00127]     As shown in Figures 20b and 20c, treatment with either L. paracasei CBA
L74 cells or L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant, respectively, resulted in a reduction in
fluorescence intensity in cells exposed to P5 7 -6 8 ss, relative to that seen in untreated
control cells (Figure 20a). These results are presented quantitatively in Figure 21. The
bar graph in Figure 21 compares fluorescence intensity for untreated control cells ("UN")
with that of cells that were exposed to P57-68"ss in the presence of 108 cfu/ml of L.
paracasei CBA L74 cells ("LP 108",) or L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant ("Sup LP 108",)
from a culture of 108 cfu/ml L. paracasei CBA L74. As shown in Figure 21, the L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant significantly reduced P31-43 entry into Caco2 cells,
calculated as reduction of fluorescence intensity, by about 40% relative to untreated
control cells (***=p<0.001).
    [00128]     In contrast, treatment with purified DNA from L. paracasei CBA L74 had
no effect on entry of P31-43 or P57-68 into Caco2 cells. Taken together, these data
suggested that the metabolite responsible for reducing peptide entry may be secreted
into the bacterial culture supernatant.
        Example 11: Effect of of L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant on EGF-Alexa
488 entry into Caco2 cells
                                                 42

    [00129]    Caco2 cells were treated with L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant from a
culture of 108 cfu/ml L. paracasei CBA L74 followed by incubation with EGF-Alexa 488
for 30 minutes as described in Example 1. As shown in Figure 22b, treatment with L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant resulted in a reduction in fluorescence intensity in cells
exposed to EGF-Alexa 488, relative to that seen in untreated control cells (Figure 22a).
These results are presented quantitatively in Figure 23. Fluorescence intensity was
calculated for 30 random fields for each sample. The data in Figure 23 were
representative of five independent experiments. The bar graph in Figure 23 compares
fluorescence intensity for untreated control cells ("UN") with that of cells that were
exposed to EGF-Alexa 488 in the presence of L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant ("Sup
LP 108",). As shown in Figure 23, the L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant significantly
reduced EGF-Alexa 488 entry into Caco2 cells, calculated as reduction of fluorescence
intensity, by about 50% relative to untreated control cells. The EGF-ALexa 488 entry
appeared to be blocked at the cell membrane (***=p<0,001).
        Example 12: Effect of L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant on P31-43 entry
into Caco2 cells following supernatant removal
    [00130]    Caco2 cells were incubated with L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant from a
culture of 108 cfu/ml L. paracasei CBA L74 for 30 minutes as described in Example 1.
The L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant was then removed and replaced with DMEM.
P31-431*ss was added and peptide entry was monitored as described in Example 1. As
shown in Figure 24c, entry of P31-43-liss was significantly reduced, relative to untreated
control cells (Figure 24a) even after the L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant had been
removed and replaced with DMEM. Figure 24b shows Caco2 cell that had been treated
with L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant that had not been removed. The bar graph in
Figure 25 compares fluorescence intensity for untreated control cells ("UN"); cells that
were exposed to P31-43-liss in the presence of L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant
("Sup LP 108") and cells that were exposed to P31-43-liss following removal of L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant ("MEM") (***=p<0.001).
                                             43

        Example 13: Effect of heat-treated L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant on
P31-43 entry into Caco2 cells
    [00131]    Caco2 cells were incubated with L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant (from
a culture of 108 cfu/ml L. paracasei CBA L74) that had been heated treated by boiling
for 5 minutes or by incubation at 800C for 15 minutes. P31-43-liss entry was assayed
as described in Example 1. As shown in Figure 26d, entry of P31-43-liss was reduced,
relative to untreated control cells (Figure 24a) even after the L. paracasei CBA L74
supernatant heated to 800C. In contrast, entry of P31-43-liss not significantly reduced
(Figure 26c), relative to untreated control cells (Figure 24a) when the L. paracasei CBA
L74 supernatant had been heated at 95 C -100 C. Figure 26b shows Caco2 cell that
had been treated with L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant that had not been heat
treated. The bar graph in Figure 27 compares fluorescence intensity for untreated
control cells ("UN"); cells that were exposed to P31-43-liss in the presence of L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant ("Sup LP 108",) that had not been heat-treated; cells
that were exposed to P31-43-liss in the presence of L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant
that had been boiled ("950-1000"); and cells that were exposed to P31-43-liss in the
presence of L. paracasei CBA L74 supernatant that had been heated at 800C ("700
800"). Taken together, these data suggested that the biological effector in the L.
paracasei CBA L74 supernatant may not be an enzyme, since enzymatic activity is
typically destroyed by temperatures of 800C (***=p<0.001).
                                              44

What is claimed is:
         1.     A method of treating a subject having a gluten-related disorder, the method
comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a composition comprising
probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74, International Depository Accession
Number LMG P-24778, wherein the probiotic bacterium reduces a symptom of gliadin peptide
toxicity by providing an increased barrier to translocation of a gliadin peptide across an intestinal
mucosa of the subject.
         2.     A method of treating a subject having a gluten-related disorder, the method
comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a composition comprising a
fermented food product, wherein the fermented food product has been fermented by probiotic
bacterium Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74, International Depository Accession Number LMG
P-24778, and the fermented food product reduces a symptom of gliadin peptide toxicity by
providing an increased barrier to translocation of a gliadin peptide across an intestinal mucosa
of the subject.
         3.     A method of treating a subject having a gluten-related disorder, the method
comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a composition comprising a
culture supernatant from fermentation of probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74,
International Depository Accession       Number LMG         P-24778    cells, wherein the culture
supernatant reduces a symptom of gliadin peptide toxicity in a subject having a gluten-related
disorder by providing an increased barrier to translocation of a gliadin peptide across an
intestinal mucosa of the subject.
         4.     The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the gliadin peptide is an a-gliadin
peptide.
         5.     The method of claim 4, wherein the a-gliadin peptide has an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of LGQQQPFPPQQPY (SEQ ID NO: 1);
QLQPFPQPQLPY          (SEQ    ID NO: 2);      LGQQQPFPPQQPYPQPQPF               (SEQ   ID NO:      3);
LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF (SEQ ID NO: 4); or a combination thereof.
                                                 45

         6.    The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the gluten-related disorder is
celiac disease or gluten sensitivity.
         7.    The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the symptom of gliadin peptide
toxicity comprises at least one of inflammation, an autoimmune reaction, a gastrointestinal
symptom, weight loss, anemia, osteoporosis, arthritis, infertility, peripheral neuropathy, and liver
failure.
         8.    The method of any one of claims 1-3, further comprising a step of administering
a second treatment for the gluten-related disorder.
         9.    The method of claim 8, wherein the second treatment is a dietary or
pharmaceutical therapy.
         10.   The method of claim 9, wherein the dietary therapy is a gluten-free diet.
         11.   The method of claim 1, wherein the probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus paracasei
CBA L74, International Depository Accession Number LMG P-24778 in the composition is dead
or has been rendered incapable of cell division.
         12.   The method of claim 11, wherein the probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus paracasei
CBA L74, International Depository Accession Number LMG P-24778 in the composition is dead.
         13.   The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein any cells of the probiotic bacterium
Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 present in the composition are dead or have been rendered
incapable of cell division.
         14.   The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition further comprises
a food product or a pharmaceutical carrier.
         15.   The method of claim 14, wherein the food product comprises a dairy product
and/or a cereal product.
                                               46

       16.     The method of claim 2, wherein the fermented food product comprises a dairy
product and/or a cereal product.
       17.     The method of claim 3, wherein substantially all of the probiotic bacterium
Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 cells have been removed from the culture supernatant.
                                             47

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
