An apparatus to deliver therapeutic gas to a patient, the apparatus comprising:
a first inlet to be placed in fluid communication with a therapeutic gas supply
comprising nitric oxide;
a second inlet to be placed in fluid communication with a breathing 5 gas delivery system
that provides a breathing gas to the patient;
a therapeutic gas injector module to be placed in fluid communication with the first
inlet and the second inlet to provide a combined flow of breathing gas and therapeutic gas;
an outlet in fluid communication with the therapeutic gas injector module to supply the
combined flow of breathing gas and therapeutic gas to a patient;
a control circuit including a first flow sensor to measure the flow of breathing gas from
the breathing gas delivery system and a second flow sensor to measure flow of therapeutic gas,
wherein the control circuit determines a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the measured
flow of breathing gas and either the measured flow of therapeutic gas or a known flow of
therapeutic gas; and
a display in communication with the control circuit that provides a visual and/or
numeric indication of the calculated dose of nitric oxide.

                                  5/7
~J        Low 02
                                  Patient Info Incomplete
  02
            %ppm
                 ..         N02            3.0        NO
                                                      ppm
                                                                    5
L22             24           0.0                      2.0
    Circuit            Calculated              F ]        Hour Metr:
 Flow (LPM)             Delivery                 '183         hours
 120-               Over
                  Delivery
   60
           peak                                   5
  2A      BVg      Under
  01   Fr         Delivery
       For Reference Only
                                 FIG. 5

                                                    1
         APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MONITORING NITRIC OXIDE DELIVERY
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]          Embodiments     of the present invention generally relate        to the field of
   apparatuses and methods for nitric oxide delivery.
 5 BACKGROUND
   [0002]          Nitric oxide (NO) is a gas that, when inhaled, acts to dilate blood vessels in the
   lungs, improving oxygenation of the blood and reducing pulmonary hypertension. Because of
   this, nitric oxide is provided in inspiratory breathing gases for patients with pulmonary
   hypertension.
10 [0003]          Often, apparatuses used for nitric oxide drug delivery provide a direct ppm dose
   setting based on patient inspired breathing gas in order to provide a constant concentration
   within the breath period. As the flow rate of breathing gas rapidly rises and falls within the
   inspiratory or expiratory phases, it becomes difficult to provide a proportional ratio-metric
   dose of delivered NO gas dependent on inspired flow.
15 [0004]          Methods of closed loop proportional flow control which are utilized to titrate
   the desire dose have limitations regarding dynamic range and impulse step response to changes
   in breathing gas flow. The primary limitation is known to be at the extremes of the NO flow
   control range, i.e. lower than 1% or greater than 100% of the NO flow control range. Typical
   flow control technologies including electromagnetic valve in combination with flow sensor and
20 microprocessor running PID (proportional, integral, derivative) control are utilized for wild
   stream blending of gases. On the lower 1% end of the control range, integral error is minimal
   to drive sufficient control system proportional valve gain. An over-damped system, combined
   with poor flow control valve step response can under-deliver the desired NO gas for a
   significant portion of the breath period. At the opposite extreme, when peak inspired flows
25 exceed 100% of the NO flow control range for a significant portion of the breath period, there
   is also under-delivery of the set dose. Additionally, a highly tuned, proportional control, fast
   response control system combined with a large hysteresis, or a poorly acting proportional
   control valve can act to over-deliver the desired dose when operating in the lower 1% of the
   control range.

                                                    2
   [00051          In fact, some delivery apparatuses shut down automatically when the calculated
   ratio-metric amount of NO flow from the inspired gas flow is found to be greater than 2 times
   or less than one half of the desired ppm set dose. When supply of nitric oxide is abruptly cut
   off, patients may experience adverse effects such as worsening of partial pressure of oxygen in
 5 arterial blood (PaO 2) and increasing pulmonary artery pressure (PAP).
   [0006]          Variability or irregularity in an unknown inspired flow profile from a support
   device such as a breathing gas delivery system may produce such flow conditions, and when
   combined with insufficient dynamic proportional control range, may then result in shutdown of
   the inhaled NO delivery system or other NO delivery apparatus. Additionally, current inhaled
10 NO delivery systems have insufficient dynamic delivery range and cannot be used with gentle
   ventilation as gentle ventilation often requires lower flows then conventional ventilation. This
   can, again, result in shutdown of the delivery apparatus with resulting rebound hypertension
   and oxygen desaturation, which may result in adverse events as serious as death.
   [0007]          In addition, nitric oxide delivery system architecture provides complete
15 independence of NO gas delivery from gas concentration measurement within the inspired
   limb of the patient circuit. Traditionally, gas concentration measurements are displayed in
   ppm on the main screen of the device with NO proportional delivery control performance
   suppressed.     This independence and when NO set dose is not equal to the reported
   concentration measurement the user has difficulty in assessment of which portion of the system
20 monitoring or delivery is performing poorly.
   [0008]          Therefore, there is a need to monitor and display the flow(s) from the patient
   support device to provide safe delivery of nitric oxide, as well as a need to provide the user a
   method of determining limitations of dynamic ratio-metric gas NO delivery blending
   performance.
25 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0009]          A first aspect of the invention relates to an apparatus to deliver therapeutic gas
   to a patient. According to one or more embodiments, the apparatus comprises a first inlet to be
   placed in fluid communication with a therapeutic gas supply comprising nitric oxide, a second
   inlet to be placed in fluid communication with a breathing gas delivery system that provides a
30 breathing gas to the patient, a therapeutic gas injector module to be placed in fluid
   communication with first inlet and the second inlet to provide a combined flow of breathing

                                                       3
   gas and therapeutic gas, an outlet in fluid communication with the therapeutic injector module
   to supply the combined flow of breathing gas and therapeutic gas to a patient, and a control
   circuit including a first flow sensor to measure the flow of breathing gas from the breathing gas
   delivery system and a second flow sensor to measure flow of therapeutic gas, wherein the
 5 control circuit determines a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the measured flow of
   breathing gas and the measured flow of therapeutic gas or a known flow of therapeutic gas, and
   a display in communication with the control circuit that provides a visual and/or numeric
   indication of the calculated dose of nitric oxide and an indicator to inform a user of the
   apparatus when the flow of breathing gas rises above or falls below a predetermined level.
10 [0010]          In one or more embodiments of this aspect, the control circuit includes a CPU
   and a flow controller, wherein the CPU sends and receives signals to the flow sensor and the
   flow controller such that the control circuit delivers a proportional flow of therapeutic gas to
   provide a desired concentration of nitric oxide to the patient. In certain embodiments, the
   control circuit further comprises clinical decision support software.            In a particular
15 embodiment, the clinical decision support software comprises instructions to reset any upper
   and lower limits of maximum and minimum calculated dose to avert shutdown of the
   apparatus.
   [0011]          In one or more embodiments, the visual and/or numeric indication of the
   calculated dose of nitric oxide is provided in parts per million (ppm) and/or as a percentage of
20 a desired delivery concentration. In some embodiments, the calculated dose of nitric oxide is
   one or more of an average calculated dose, an instantaneous calculated dose, a maximum
   calculated dose and a minimum calculated dose.
   [0012]          In certain embodiments, the apparatus further comprises an indicator that
   provides an alert when the calculated dose of nitric oxide rises above or falls below a
25 predetermined level. According to one or more embodiments, the alert includes one or more of
   an audible alert, a visual alert and a text alert. In some embodiments, the indicator is an icon or
   graphic on the display that provides a visual and/or numeric indication of the calculated dose.
   [0013]          One or more embodiments of this aspect provide that display also provides a
   visual and/or numeric indication of the volumetric flow of breathing gas.               In certain
30 embodiments, the visual and/or numeric indication includes one or more of volumetric flow
   rate, tidal volume, and minute ventilation.

                                                    4
   [0014]          According to one or more embodiments, the breathing gas delivery system
   comprises a ventilation apparatus.
   [0015]          Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of monitoring the delivery
   of therapeutic gas to a patient comprising providing a flow of breathing gas, providing a flow
 5 of therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide, measuring the flow of breathing gas to obtain a
   measured flow of breathing gas, measuring the flow of therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide
   to obtain a measured flow of therapeutic gas or obtaining a known flow of therapeutic gas,
   delivering the breathing gas and therapeutic gas to a patient, determining a calculated dose of
   nitric oxide based on the measured flow of breathing gas and the measured flow of therapeutic
10 gas or the known flow of therapeutic gas, and displaying the calculated dose of nitric oxide
   and/or measured flow of breathing gas on a display module.
   [0016]          According to one or more embodiments, the method further comprises
   comparing the calculated dose of nitric oxide to a predetermined limit and providing an alert if
   the calculated dose of nitric oxide is above or below the limit. In certain embodiments, the
15 alert includes one or more of an audible alert, a visual alert and a text alert.
   [0017]          In some embodiments, the predetermined limit comprises a delivery error
   greater than or equal to about 25%. Other predetermined limits include, but are not limited to,
   delivery errors greater than or equal to the following values: +/- 1%, +/- 2%, +/- 5%, +/- 10%,
   +/- 15%, +/- 20%, +/- 25%, +/- 30%, +/- 35%, +/- 40%, +/- 45%, +/- 50%, +/- 55%, +/- 60
20          %, +/- 65%, +/- 70%, +/- 75%, +/- 80%, +/- 85%, +/- 90%, +/- 95% or +/- 100%.
   [0018]          According to one or more embodiments, the calculated dose of nitric oxide is
   displayed in parts per million (ppm) and/or as a percentage of a desired delivery concentration.
   In some embodiments, the calculated dose of nitric oxide is one or more of an average
   calculated dose, an instantaneous calculated dose, a maximum calculated dose and a minimum
25 calculated dose.
   [0019]          In certain embodiments, the method further comprises adjusting the flow of
   breathing gas delivered to the patient and/or the desired target NO concentration in response to
   the alert. For example, the flow of breathing gas may be adjusted by having a clinician change
   a setting on the ventilator.
30 [0020]          In some embodiments, the method further comprises displaying the measured
   flow of breathing gas.       In one or more embodiments, displaying the measured flow of
   breathing gas includes displaying one or more of volumetric flow rate, tidal volume, and

                                                    5
   minute ventilation. Some embodiments provide that the measured flow of breathing gas is one
   or more of an average flow rate, an instantaneous flow rate, a peak flow rate and a minimum
   measured flow rate.
   [0021]          The foregoing has outlined rather broadly certain features and technical
 5 advantages of the present invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the
   specific embodiments disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing
   other structures or processes within the scope present invention. It should also be realized by
   those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and
   scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.
10 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0022]          So that the manner in which the above recited features of the present invention
   can be understood in detail, a more particular description of the invention, briefly summarized
   above, may be had by reference to embodiments, some of which are illustrated in the appended
   drawings.    It is to be noted, however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical
15 embodiments of this invention and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope, for
   the invention may admit to other equally effective embodiments.
   [00231          FIG. 1 depicts an apparatus for monitoring patient inspired gas flow containing
   a therapeutic gas to a patient in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention;
   [0024]          FIG. 2 depicts a system for providing a therapeutic gas to a patient in
20 accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention;
   [0025]          FIG. 3 depicts a flow chart for a method of monitoring the delivery of
   therapeutic gas to a patient in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention;
   [0026]          FIG. 4 depicts a flow chart for another method of monitoring the delivery of
   therapeutic gas with a feedback loop to drive NO dose or adjust flows to a patient in
25 accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention;
   [0027]          FIG. 5 depicts a screen displaying the flow of breathing and calculated NO dose
   delivered compared to set dose over a reporting time period of measured breathing gas flow
   rate gas in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention;

                                                    6
   [00281           FIG. 6 depicts the maximum deliverable NO concentration as a function of the
   breathing gas flow rate for a nitric oxide delivery apparatus with a maximum NO flow rate;
   and
   [0029]           FIG. 7 depicts a screen displaying a calculated dose in ppm based on a known
 5 therapeutic gas flow rate and a measured breathing gas flow rate.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0030]           Before describing several exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is to be
   understood that the invention is not limited to the details of construction or process steps set
   forth in the following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being
10 practiced or being carried out in various ways.
   [0031]           Certain embodiments of the invention generally provide an apparatus for
   delivering a therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide to a patient. The therapeutic gas comprises
   nitric oxide in a carrier gas such nitrogen.       Suitable therapeutic gases can have varying
   concentrations of nitric oxide, and exemplary concentrations of nitric oxide in the therapeutic
15 gas include, but are not limited to, 100 ppm to 10,000 ppm. In a particular embodiment, the
   concentration of nitric oxide is about 800 ppm.
   [0032]           The apparatus includes a control circuit and a display that measures the flow of
   therapeutic gas and breathing gas to determine and display a calculated dose of nitric oxide.
   Other embodiments pertain to a method of monitoring the delivery of therapeutic gas
20 comprising nitric oxide to a patient.
   [0033]           In one aspect, provided are apparatuses that comprise: a first inlet for receiving
   a therapeutic gas supply comprising nitric oxide; a second inlet for receiving a breathing gas; a
   therapeutic gas injector module in fluid communication with the first inlet and the second inlet
   to provide a combined flow of therapeutic gas and breathing gas; an outlet in fluid
25 communication with the therapeutic gas injector module for supplying the breathing gas and
   therapeutic gas to a patient; and a control circuit to determine a calculated dose of nitric oxide
   based on the measured flow of breathing gas and the measured flow of therapeutic gas or a
   known flow of therapeutic gas.
   [0034]           One or more embodiments relate to an apparatus comprising: a first inlet to be
30 placed in fluid communication with a therapeutic gas supply comprising nitric oxide; a second

                                                     7
   inlet to be placed in fluid communication with a breathing gas delivery system that provides a
   breathing gas to the patient; a therapeutic gas injector module in fluid communication with the
   first inlet and the second inlet to provide a combined flow of therapeutic gas and breathing gas;
   an outlet in fluid communication with the therapeutic gas injector module and configured to
 5 supply breathing gas and therapeutic gas to a patient; a control circuit including a first flow
   sensor to measure the flow of breathing gas from the breathing gas delivery system and a
   second flow sensor to measure flow of therapeutic gas, wherein the control circuit determines a
   calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the measured flow of breathing gas and the measured
   flow of therapeutic gas; and a display in communication with the control circuit that provides a
10 visual and/or numeric indication of the calculated dose of nitric oxide. Alternatively, instead
   of determining a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on a measured flow of therapeutic gas,
   the calculated dose may be based on a known or assumed flow of therapeutic gas. This known
   flow of therapeutic gas may be a constant flow of therapeutic gas, such as if the nitric oxide
   delivery apparatus is in a backup mode.
15 [0035]           FIG. 1 illustrates one embodiment of an apparatus for monitoring delivery of a
   therapeutic gas in accordance with this aspect. First inlet 101 is configured to be placed in
   fluid communication with a therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide.          Second inlet 102 is
   configured to be placed in fluid communication with a breathing gas delivery system that
   provides a breathing gas to a patient.           Therapeutic injector module 103 is in fluid
20 communication with first inlet 101 and second inlet 102, as well as outlet 104. The side view
   of therapeutic injector module 103 is shown. Outlet 104 is in fluid communication with first
   inlet 101 and second inlet 102, and is configured to supply breathing gas and therapeutic gas to
   a patient. A first flow sensor 106 is in fluid communication and downstream of second inlet
   102, and monitors the flow of breathing gas through therapeutic injector module 103. Control
25 circuit 105 is in communication with therapeutic injector module 103, and connects flow
   sensor 106 to CPU 108 and indicator 107. Control circuit 105 may also be in communication
   with a second flow sensor 115 that measures the flow of therapeutic gas into the therapeutic
   injector module 103. When the flow rate as measured by flow sensor 106 is above or below a
   predetermined level, central processing unit (CPU) 108 may send a signal to indicator 107.
30 The CPU 108 may also determine a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the measured flow
   rate of therapeutic gas from flow sensor 115, the measured flow rate of breathing gas from
   flow sensor 106, and the concentration of nitric oxide in the therapeutic gas. Alternatively, the

                                                    8
   CPU 108 may use a known flow rate of therapeutic gas to determine the calculated dose.
   Indicator 107 can inform a user of the apparatus that the flow is outside of a particular range.
   The indicator 107 may be part of a display, such as an icon or graphic on a display screen.
   [0036]          Flow sensors 106 and 115 can be any appropriate flow measuring device. This
 5 includes, but is not limited to, a pneumotach, hot wire anemometer, thermal flow sensor,
   variable orifice, thermal time-of-flight, rotating vane and the like.      Also suitable are flow
   transducers that measure pressure, such as a pressure drop though an orifice, in order to
   determine flow. According to one embodiment, the flow sensor 106 is part of the therapeutic
   injector module 103.     In one such embodiment, the flow sensor 106 comprises a hot film
10 sensor and a thermistor. The thermistor measures the temperature of the breathing gas flowing
   through the injector module 103. The constant temperature hot film sensor measures the flow
   of breathing gas in proportion to the energy required to maintain the platinum film temperature
   constant. In other embodiments, the flow sensor 106 is upstream of the therapeutic injector
   module 103.
15 [0037]          In some embodiments, flow sensor 115 is part of the therapeutic injector
   module. In other embodiments, flow sensor 115 is upstream of the therapeutic injector module
   103, such as in the control module of the nitric oxide delivery device.
   [00381          The term "control circuit" is intended to encompass a variety of ways that may
   be utilized to carry out various signal processing functions to operate the therapeutic gas
20 delivery apparatus. In a particular embodiment, the control circuit includes a CPU 108 and a
   flow controller. The CPU 108 can send and receive signals to the flow sensor 103 and the flow
   controller (not shown) such that the control circuit maintains set NO dose of therapeutic gas to
   the patient. In a specific embodiment, the CPU obtains information from the flow sensor and
   from an input device that allows the user to select the desired dose of nitric oxide.
25 [00391          In a specific embodiment of a control circuit, the flow sensor 103 is in
   communication with a CPU 108 that monitors the flow of each of the gases to patient as
   described herein. If a specific dose of nitric oxide is to be administered, the CPU 108 can
   calculate the necessary flow of therapeutic gas based on the measured flow of breathing gas
   and the concentration of nitric oxide in the therapeutic gas.         Such a calculation can be
30 performed using the following equation:

                                                         9
                               Therapeutic   Yset/ (Ytherapeutic - Yset)] * Qbreathing
   wherein Qbreathing is the flow rate of breathing gas, Yset is the desired nitric oxide concentration,
   therapeutic is the concentration of nitric oxide in the therapeutic gas supply, and   Qtherapeutic is the
 5 necessary flow of therapeutic gas to provide the desired concentration of nitric oxide in the gas
   mixture.
    [0040]           The central processing unit may be one of any forms of a computer processor
   that can be used in an industrial or medical setting for controlling various medical gas flow
   devices and sub-processors. The CPU can be coupled to a memory (not shown) and may be
10 one or more of readily available memory such as random access memory (RAM), read only
   memory (ROM), flash memory, compact disc, floppy disk, hard disk, or any other form of
   local or remote digital storage. Support circuits (not shown) can be coupled to the CPU to
   support the CPU in a conventional manner.              These circuits include cache, power supplies,
   clock circuits, input/output circuitry, subsystems, and the like.
15  [0041]           The control circuit may further comprise clinical decision support software.
   Such software may provide instructions for a variety of tasks, such as providing alerts when the
   calculated dose of NO and/or the measured flow of breathing gas rises above or falls below a
   predetermined level. The predetermined level may be the level at which the apparatus shuts
   down. Alternatively, the predetermined level may be a level that is reached prior to apparatus
20 shutdown. Thus, for an apparatus that shuts down when the delivered NO dose is below a
   minimum threshold, the predetermined level may be above this minimum threshold.
    [0042]           The predetermined level may be built into the clinical decision support
   software, or it may be provided by the user through an input device. In one embodiment, the
   clinical decision support software comprises instructions to reset the upper and lower limits of
25 maximum and minimum concentrations, dose errors or flows at which a shutdown is triggered.
   According to certain embodiments, the clinical decision software comprises instructions to
   provide an alert when these limits are reached and avert the potential for shutdown of the
   apparatus, which would lead to the lack of drug delivery. Alternatively, the apparatus may
   comprise clinical decision software that provides instructions such that the apparatus may
30 automatically adjust these limits without the need for user intervention.

                                                    10
   [0043]          The clinical decision software may also include instructions to alter the time
   sensitivity of the apparatus to changes in breathing gas flow and/or calculated dose.         As a
   result, the apparatus may change the time period necessary for a sustained low flow condition
   or under-delivery condition before the apparatus shuts down. For example, the apparatus can
 5 increase the time before shutdown from about 1 to 2 seconds to several seconds, so that a
   shutdown will only occur if the low flow and/or under-delivery is sustained for a longer period
   of time.
   [0044]          The apparatus may also comprises an indicator to inform a user of the apparatus
   when the calculated dose and/or flow of breathing gas rises above or falls below a
10 predetermined level. In one or more embodiments, the indicator provides an alert when the
   calculated dose and/or flow of breathing gas rises above or falls below the predetermined level.
   In certain embodiments, the alert includes one or more of an audible alert, a visual alert and a
   text alert.   Such alerts can be provided at the location of the apparatus itself, or may be
   provided at a remote location, such as directly to the medical staff or to a nursing station.
15 When the alert is provided to a remote location, the signal may be transferred from the
   apparatus to the remote location by any wired or wireless communication. Examples of alerts
   include text messages, sirens, sounds, alarms, flashing images, changes in display color, or any
   other means of attracting the attention of a user.
   [0045]          In certain embodiments, more than one alert may be provided. For example, a
20 low priority alert may be provided when the flow of breathing gas falls below a first
   predetermined level, and a high priority alert may be provided when the flow of breathing gas
   falls below a second, lower predetermined level. Such a tiered alert system can put medical
   staff on notice of a relatively small deviation in flow rate, but also provide a more serious alert
   when a dangerous condition exists that requires immediate attention. Alternatively, a high
25 priority alert can be provided when the flow rate is below the predetermined level for a certain
   period of time, thus indicating a sustained low flow condition.
   [0046]          The apparatus can also include a display that provides a visual and/or numeric
   indication of the volumetric flow of breathing gas and/or the calculated dose.         This visual
   and/or numeric indication can include any means of displaying the flow of breathing gas and/or
30 calculated dose, including numerals, graphics, images or the like. The display can also be any
   sort of appropriate display device, including a dial, gauge or other analog device, or any

                                                   11
   electronic display device, including an LED, LCD, CRT, etc. Such device need not necessarily
   be connected to the apparatus and may be utilized in a remote capacity.                In certain
   embodiments, the visual and/or numeric indication of the breathing gas flow includes one or
   more of volumetric flow rate, tidal volume, and minute ventilation. The displayed flow rate
 5 may include one or more of the following: average flow rate, instantaneous flow rate, peak
   flow rate, minimum measured flow rate, or other like measurements relating to the breathing
   gas flow.
   [0047]          An exemplary screen displaying the flow of breathing gas is shown in FIG. 5.
   The screen in FIG. 5 has an indicator in the bottom left corner showing the average and peak
10 flow rates of breathing gas. In FIG. 5, the indicator has a range of 0.0 to 120 standard liters per
   minute. The black region from 2.0 to 60 liters per minute is the target range for the breathing
   gas, with 60 liters per minute as a high flow limit and 2.0 liters per minute as a low flow limit.
   The white regions above 60 liters per minute and below 2.0 liters per minute may be regions
   where delivery accuracy may differ from expected, when the set dose is above 40 ppm, or
15 where which an alarm is emitted or other notification is given to the user such that the user is
   informed to make an appropriate correction to the respiratory device or the iNO delivery
   system. The low flow and high flow limits may be adjusted depending on the sensitivity of the
   flow sensor and/or injector module, or depending on the patient to be treated. As can be seen
   from FIG. 5, the screen may also display other information, such as the 02, NO 2 and NO
20 concentrations that are administered to the patient. In addition, the screen shown in FIG. 5
   may also display other parameters relating to the breathing gas flow and nitric oxide delivery,
   such as the instantaneous breathing gas flow rate, minimum measured breathing gas flow rate,
   average nitric oxide dose rate, instantaneous nitric oxide dose rate, minimum and maximum
   nitric oxide dose rates, average nitric oxide flow rate, instantaneous nitric oxide flow rate,
25 minimum and maximum nitric oxide flow rates, target nitric oxide delivery concentration,
   cylinder nitric oxide concentration, etc.
   [0048]          The CPU may also calculate a delivery concentration based on the measured
   nitric oxide flow rate and the measured flow rate through the breathing circuit. The calculated
   delivery concentration may be compared to the delivery concentration set by the user to
30 provide a calculated delivery expressed as a percentage, with 100% being ideal delivery. In
   some embodiments, either the calculated delivery percentage and/or the calculated delivery
   concentration may be displayed on the screen as a calculated dose of nitric oxide.              For

                                                   12
   example, the calculated delivery percentage may also be displayed on the screen as shown in
   FIG. 5, or the calculated delivery may be displayed as a NO concentration in ppm as shown in
   FIG. 7.
   [0049]          In FIG. 5, the calculated delivery indicator has a black target delivery region, a
 5 white over delivery region and a white under delivery region. The target delivery region may
   be based on a certain accuracy tolerance for nitric oxide delivery, such as +/- 1%, +/- 2%,
   5%, +/- 10%, +/- 15%, +/- 20%, +/- 25%, +/- 30%, +/- 35%, +/- 40%, +/- 45% , +/- 50%,+/
   55%, +/- 60%, +/- 65%, +/- 70%, +/- 75%, +/- 80%, +/- 85%, +/- 90%, +/- 95% or +/- 100%.
   If the calculated delivery is in the white over delivery region or the white under delivery
10 region, an alarm may be emitted or other notification may be provided to the user. As with the
   displayed flow of breathing gas, the calculated delivery may be displayed as an instantaneous
   value, average value, minimum value and/or maximum value.
   [0050]          By providing an inspired flow graphic in combination with a % delivery error
   graphic, a user can ascertain the device NO proportional flow control limitations. With this
15 information, a user can adjust the breathing gas flow rate and/or the desired ppm dose to ensure
   that the nitric oxide delivery system is not operating outside of its delivery range. With
   independent NO gas concentration monitoring one can further ascertain set verses measured
   deviation. Inadequate NO delivery could then be compensated by the user up or down from
   the desired set dose.
20 [0051]          Some current nitric oxide delivery systems have a maximum NO flow that can
   be delivered. For example, a nitric oxide delivery device may have a maximum NO flow of
   6.35 L/min. This means the maximum deliverable NO concentration will vary based on the
   ventilator flow rate and the nitric oxide concentration in the therapeutic gas supply. For a
   cylinder having a NO concentration of 800 ppm, the maximum deliverable NO concentration
25 will vary from approximately 80 ppm at a constant flow of 60 L/min to approximately 40 ppm
   at constant flow 120 L/min. FIG. 6 illustrates the NO delivery dose limitation for such a
   delivery system based on the expected ventilation inspired flow rates. For example, when
   inspired flows are sustained greater than 120 L/min with a dose set above 60 ppm, the potential
   exists for under-delivery shutdown conditions because the maximum NO flow rate cannot
30 deliver the required NO to obtain the 60 ppm dose.

                                                    13
   [0052]          FIG. 7 shows an exemplary graphic for displaying the calculated dose of nitric
   oxide as a concentration in ppm. As can be seen, the calculated dose in ppm can displayed as a
   graphic that indicates the concentration, but other ways of displaying the calculated dose can
   be displaying the calculated dose in ppm as an actual number, i.e. 26 ppm. Displaying the
 5 calculated dose as a concentration in ppm can be particularly useful if the nitric oxide delivery
   apparatus is in a backup mode in which the device does not provide proportional or ratio
   metric delivery of nitric oxide. For example, in some situations it may be necessary to provide
   a constant flow of therapeutic gas that is independent of the breathing gas flow rate, such as a
   flow rate of 250 mL/min of therapeutic gas. In such a backup mode, the device may calculate
10 the dose of nitric oxide based on the constant therapeutic gas flow rate and the measured
   breathing gas flow rate. The device may assume the constant therapeutic gas flow rate is a
   certain flow rate (i.e. 250 mL/min) or the constant therapeutic gas flow rate may actually be
   measured.    As the flow of therapeutic gas is constant and is no longer dependent on the
   breathing gas flow rate, the concentration of nitric oxide delivered to the patient will vary
15 depending on the breathing gas flow rate (i.e. the backup therapeutic gas delivery is non-ratio
   metric to the measured breathing gas flow rate). Accordingly, it may be beneficial to provide
   an estimate of the backup dose based on the known therapeutic gas flow rate (which may be an
   assumed flow rate) and the measured breathing gas flow rate.
   [0053]          In a backup mode with a constant therapeutic gas flow rate, it may be useful to
20 display a chart or other graphic on the display to help the clinician predict what the nitric oxide
   concentration will be for certain breathing gas flow rates. An example of such a chart is shown
   in the bottom right corner of FIG. 7.        Using this information, the clinician may set the
   ventilator to a certain flow rate or pressure control to achieve the desired nitric oxide
   concentration for the backup mode delivery.
25 [0054]          In some embodiments, the flow rate of breathing gas and/or the calculated nitric
   oxide dose is displayed on the main screen used during therapy. However, in one or more
   alternate embodiments, the flow rate and/or calculated dose is not directly displayed on the
   main screen, but the user may access a screen that displays information such as the breathing
   flow rate history or the instantaneous breathing gas flow rate. The breathing flow rate history
30 may include the peak and/or average flow rates for a certain period of time, such as the past 5,
   10, 15, 20, 30 or 45 seconds, the past 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60 minutes, or since the start of
   the current therapy administration. In some embodiments, the breathing flow rate history is

                                                    14
   provided for the past several seconds, such as about 10 seconds. The apparatus may include
   appropriate components for calculating and storing the information regarding breathing flow
   rate history, such as a CPU and memory.       Similarly, the calculated dose that is displayed may
   be instantaneous, average, maximum and/or minimum values. A calculated dose history may
 5 include the peak and/or average flow rates for a certain period of time, such as the past 5, 10,
   15, 20, 30 or 45 seconds, the past 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60 minutes, or since the start of the
   current therapy administration. In some embodiments, the calculated dose history is provided
   for the past several seconds, such as about 10 seconds.
   [0055]          The apparatus may comprise an input device that can receive input from a user.
10 Such user input can include operation parameters, such as desired nitric oxide concentration
   and flow limits. In one embodiment, an input device and display device may be incorporated
   into one unit, such as a touchscreen device.
   [0056]          The breathing gas delivery system can include any system capable of providing
   a supply of breathing gas to the patient. The breathing gas may be supplied by ventilatory
15 support, mechanically assisted ventilation or by spontaneous ventilation. Examples of suitable
   ventilation apparatuses include, but are not limited to, conventional ventilators, jet ventilators,
   high frequency oscillator ventilators and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
   apparatuses. Non-invasive approaches can also be used to supply the breathing gas, including
   bubble CPAP, synchronized inspiratory positive airway pressure (SiPAP), nasal cannula and
20 heated high flow nasal cannula.
   [0057]          The therapeutic injector module combines the flow of the breathing gas and the
   flow of the therapeutic gas. The injector module ensures the proper delivery of inhaled nitric
   oxide at a set dose based on changes in flow of the breathing gas via communication with the
   CPU.
25 [0058]          In some embodiments, the nitric oxide delivery device is suitable for use with
   gentle ventilation strategies. Gentle ventilation may be a ventilator strategy that limits shear
   stress and pressures on the alveoli, while maintaining adequate oxygenation and ventilation, to
   reduce lung injury and minimize long term pulmonary complications. Gentle ventilation
   includes, but is not limited to: (1) maintaining adequate ventilation and oxygenation of the
30 neonate; (2) limiting peak to peak pressures during mechanical ventilation; (3) adjusting
   ventilator pressure(s) as needed to maintain adequate lung volume without doing harm.

                                                    15
   [00591           In some embodiments, gentle ventilation involves reducing inspiratory pressure
   enough to allow for some permissive hypercapnia. Gentle ventilation may include, but is not
   limited to, utilization of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) methods of respiratory support to limit
   injury to the lung, whereby the device and equipment supplies gas flow at lower pressures, thus
 5 eliminating the breath-to-breath high PIP's (Peak Airway Pressures) which increases the
   frequency of lung injury through shearing forces and stretching of alveoli. Gentle ventilation
   may include the use of bubble CPAP, SiPAP, HHHFNC (Heated Humidified High Flow Nasal
   Cannula) and methods of mechanical ventilation, whereby the intubated infant receives PIP's
   less than or equal to 20 cm H 2 0 and oxygen saturations are 88-92%. For those infants on
10 HFOV or HJV, pressures are maintained to minimize lung injury. Equipment to maintain an
   approach to gentle ventilation includes, but is not limited to, nasal cannula, nasal prongs and
   adaptive masks for NIV support. Examples of suitable equipment for gentle ventilation are
   Neopuff@ and High Flow Bubble CPAP available from Fisher & Paykel Healthcare, Inc., and
   products available from Vapotherm, Inc..
15 [0060]           Another aspect of the invention relates to a system for delivering therapeutic gas
   to a patient.     The system comprises: a therapeutic gas supply comprising nitric oxide; a
   breathing gas delivery system that provides breathing gas to a patient; and a therapeutic gas
   delivery apparatus, wherein the therapeutic gas delivery apparatus comprises: a first inlet
   configured to be placed in fluid communication with the therapeutic gas supply; a second inlet
20 configured to be placed in fluid communication with the breathing gas delivery system; a
   therapeutic gas injector module adapted to be placed in communication with the first inlet and
   the second inlet to provide a combined flow of breathing gas and therapeutic gas; an outlet in
   fluid communication with injector module and configured to supply breathing gas and
   therapeutic gas to a patient; a control circuit in communication with a first flow sensor that
25 measures the flow of breathing gas from the breathing gas delivery system and a second flow
   sensor that measures the flow of therapeutic gas to determine a calculated dose of nitric oxide
   based on the therapeutic gas and breathing gas flow rates; and a display to provide a visual
   and/or numeric indication of the calculated dose of nitric oxide.
   [0061]           FIG. 2 illustrates one embodiment of a system for providing a therapeutic gas to
30 a patient in accordance with this aspect.         Therapeutic injector module 203 is in fluid
   communication with first inlet 201 and second inlet 202.              First inlet 201 is in fluid
   communication with therapeutic gas injector tube 210, which is in fluid communication with a

                                                   16
   therapeutic gas supply comprising nitric oxide. Second inlet 202 is in fluid communication
   with breathing gas delivery system 211, which is illustrated as a ventilator. The arrows in FIG.
   2 indicate the direction of flow for the breathing gas and the combined gas mixture of
   therapeutic gas and breathing gas. Flow sensor 206 is in fluid communication and downstream
 5 of second inlet 202, and monitors the flow of breathing gas through therapeutic injector
   module 203. The top view of therapeutic injector module 203 is shown. The therapeutic gas
   and breathing gas mix in therapeutic injector module 203 to provide a gas mixture. Injector
   module cable 205 connects therapeutic injector module 203 with control module 209. Flow
   sensor 206 in the control module 209 measures the flow of therapeutic gas flowing through
10 therapeutic gas injector tube 210 to the therapeutic injector module 203. Control module 209
   also comprises display 208, which can display real-time flow of breathing gas and/or
   calculated dose of nitric oxide and/or provide alerts when the flow of breathing gas rises above
   or falls below a predetermined level. Inspiratory breathing hose 212 is in fluid communication
   with outlet 204 and nasal cannula 214.        The inspiratory breathing hose provides the gas
15 mixture of breathing gas and therapeutic gas to nasal cannula 214, which delivers the gas
   mixture to the patient. Patient gas sample line 213 diverts some of the flow of the gas mixture
   from inspiratory breathing hose 212 and brings it to sample block 219.
   [0062]          Sample block 219, also known as a sample pump, draws some of the flow of the
   gas mixture through gas sample line 213. As shown in FIG. 2, the sample block 219 may be
20 incorporated into the control module 209. The sample block analyzes the concentrations of
   nitric oxide, oxygen, and nitrogen dioxide in the gas mixture. Typically, a sample block will
   sample about 250 mL/min of the gas mixture. However, when flow rates of breathing gas are
   near 250 mL/min, sampling 250 mL/min of the gas mixture would leave little or no gas to
   deliver to the patient. Therefore, in one or more embodiments, the sample block is modified to
25 draw or pull a volume of combined therapeutic and breathing gas such that the gas sampled per
   minute is less than or equal to 100 mL/min. In certain embodiments, the gas sampled is less
   than or equal to 50 mL/min. In further embodiments, the gas sampled is less than or equal to
   20 mL/min. The sampling block may have smaller pumps or more sensitive sensors in order to
   sample lower flow rates.
30 [0063]          The concentrations of nitric oxide, oxygen and nitrogen dioxide measured in the
   sample block 219 may be shown on display 208. As a result of sampling lower amounts of the

                                                   17
   gas mixture, refresh rates of monitored values may need to be faster regarding displayed
   values.
   [0064]          The therapeutic gas delivery apparatus in the therapeutic gas delivery system
   can incorporate any or all of the previously described embodiments for a therapeutic gas
 5 delivery apparatus.
   [0065]          The breathing gas delivery system in the system for delivering therapeutic gas
   can include any system capable of providing a supply of breathing gas to the patient. The
   breathing gas may be supplied by any form of ventilatory support, or mechanically assisted
   ventilation or by spontaneous ventilation.       Examples of suitable ventilation apparatuses
10 include, but are not limited to, conventional ventilators, jet ventilators, high frequency
   oscillator ventilators and CPAP apparatuses. Non-invasive approaches can also be used to
   supply the breathing gas, including bubble CPAP, SiPAP, nasal cannula and heated high flow
   nasal cannula.
   [0066]          According to another aspect of the invention, provided is a method of
15 monitoring the delivery of therapeutic gas to a patient comprising: providing a flow of
   breathing gas; providing a flow of therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide; measuring the flow
   of breathing gas; measuring the flow of therapeutic gas; delivering the breathing gas and
   therapeutic gas to a patient; determining a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the
   measured flow of breathing gas and the measured flow of therapeutic gas or a known flow of
20 therapeutic gas; and displaying the calculated dose of nitric oxide on a display module.
   [0067]          FIG. 3 depicts a flow chart for one embodiment of a method 300 for monitoring
   the delivery of therapeutic gas to a patient. A flow of breathing gas is provided 301 to a
   delivery apparatus, such as a therapeutic injector module. The flow of breathing gas may be
   provided from a ventilator to an injector module as described above. A flow of therapeutic gas
25 comprising nitric oxide is also provided 302 to the delivery apparatus. The flow of breathing
   gas is measured 303, and this measured flow of breathing gas may be displayed 304 on a
   display module. The flow of therapeutic gas is also measured 310. The measured flow rates of
   breathing gas and therapeutic gases are then used to determine a calculated dose of nitric oxide
   311, and then the calculated dose of nitric oxide may be displayed 312. Instead of using a
30 measured flow rate of therapeutic gas, a known flow rate of therapeutic gas may be used. The
   measured flow of breathing gas and/or the calculated dose of nitric oxide may be compared

                                                    18
   305 to a predetermined limit. In FIG. 3, the predetermined limit is a low limit. If the measured
   flow of breathing gas and/or calculated dose is below 306 the predetermined limit, an alert is
   provided 307. The breathing gas and therapeutic gas are then delivered 308 to a patient. For
   example, the injector module may combine the flow of breathing gas from the ventilator with
 5 the flow of therapeutic gas from the nitric oxide delivery device and provide this combined
   flow to the patient. If the measured flow of breathing gas and/or calculated dose is not below
   306 the predetermined limit, then the breathing gas and therapeutic gas are delivered 308 to a
   patient without providing 307 an alert. Any of the steps provided above are optional, and the
   scope of any particular method is not limited by the specific combination shown in FIG. 3.
10 [00681          FIG. 4 depicts a flow chart for another embodiment of a method 400 for
   monitoring the delivery of therapeutic gas to a patient. A flow of breathing gas is provided 401
   to a delivery apparatus, and a flow of therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide is also provided
   402. The flow of breathing gas is measured 403, and the measured flow of breathing gas may
   be displayed 404 on a display module. The flow of therapeutic gas is also measured 410. The
15 measured flow rates of breathing gas and therapeutic gases are then used to determine a
   calculated dose of nitric oxide 411, and then the calculated dose of nitric oxide may be
   displayed 412. The measured flow of breathing gas and/or the calculated dose of nitric oxide
   may be compared 405 to a predetermined limit, which is a low limit in FIG. 4. As with FIG. 3,
   if the measured flow of breathing gas and/or the calculated dose is below 406 the
20 predetermined limit, an alert is provided 407. In response to the alert provided 407, the flow
   rate of breathing gas and/or the desired nitric oxide concentration may be adjusted 409. The
   breathing gas and therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide are then delivered 408 to the patient.
   If the measured flow of breathing gas and/or calculated dose is not below 406 the
   predetermined limit, then proceed directly to delivering 408 the breathing gas and therapeutic
25 gas comprising nitric oxide. Again, any of the steps provided above are optional, and the
   scope of any particular method is not limited by the specific combination shown in FIG. 4.
   [0069]          Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment,"             "certain
   embodiments," "one or more embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular
   feature, structure, material, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
30 included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrases
   such as "in one or more embodiments," "in certain embodiments," "in one embodiment" or "in
   an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to

                                                   19
   the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, the particular features, structures,
   materials, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
   embodiments. The order of description of the above method should not be considered limiting,
   and methods may use the described operations out of order or with omissions or additions.
 5 [0070]          It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative,
   and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
   art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should, therefore, be
   determined with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to
   which such claims are entitled.
10

                                                    20
   What is claimed is:
   1.      An apparatus to deliver therapeutic gas to a patient, the apparatus comprising:
           a first inlet to be placed in fluid communication with a therapeutic gas supply
   comprising nitric oxide;
 5         a second inlet to be placed in fluid communication with a breathing gas delivery system
   that provides a breathing gas to the patient;
           a therapeutic gas injector module to be placed in fluid communication with the first
   inlet and the second inlet to provide a combined flow of breathing gas and therapeutic gas;
           an outlet in fluid communication with the therapeutic gas injector module to supply the
10 combined flow of breathing gas and therapeutic gas to a patient;
           a control circuit including a first flow sensor to measure the flow of breathing gas from
   the breathing gas delivery system and a second flow sensor to measure flow of therapeutic gas,
   wherein the control circuit determines a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the measured
   flow of breathing gas and either the measured flow of therapeutic gas or a known flow of
15 therapeutic gas; and
           a display in communication with the control circuit that provides a visual and/or
   numeric indication of the calculated dose of nitric oxide.
   2.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the visual and/or numeric indication of the calculated
   dose of nitric oxide is provided in parts per million (ppm) and/or as a percentage of a desired
20 delivery concentration.
   3.      The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the calculated dose of nitric oxide is one or
   more of an average calculated dose, an instantaneous calculated dose, a maximum calculated
   dose and a minimum calculated dose.
   4.      The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising an indicator that provides an
25 alert when the flow of breathing gas or calculated dose of nitric oxide rises above or falls
   below a predetermined level.

                                                   21
   5.      The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the alert includes one or more of an audible alert, a
   visual alert and a text alert.
   6.      The apparatus of any claims 1 to 5, wherein the display also provides a visual and/or
   numeric indication of the volumetric flow of breathing gas.
 5 7.      The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the visual and/or numeric indication includes one or
   more of volumetric flow rate, tidal volume, and minute ventilation.
   8.      The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the indicator is an icon or graphic on the display that
   provides a visual and/or numeric indication of the volumetric flow of breathing gas.
   9.      The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the volumetric flow of breathing gas is one or more
10 of an average flow rate, an instantaneous flow rate, a peak flow rate and a minimum measured
   flow rate.
   10.     The apparatus of any claims I to 9, wherein the breathing gas delivery system
   comprises a ventilation apparatus.
   11.     The apparatus of any claims I to 10, wherein the control circuit further comprises
15 clinical decision support software to reset any upper and lower limits of maximum and
   minimum calculated dose to avert shutdown of the apparatus.
   12.     The apparatus of any claims 1 to 11, wherein the display further provides a chart that
   provides a predicted nitric oxide concentration as a function of the breathing gas flow rate.
   13.     A method of monitoring the delivery of therapeutic gas to a patient comprising:
20         providing a flow of breathing gas;
           providing a flow of therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide;
           measuring the flow of breathing gas to obtain a measured flow of breathing gas;
           measuring the flow of therapeutic gas comprising nitric oxide to obtain a measured
   flow of therapeutic gas or obtaining a known flow of therapeutic gas;
25          delivering the breathing gas and therapeutic gas to a patient;

                                                     22
            determining a calculated dose of nitric oxide based on the measured flow of breathing
   gas and either the measured flow of therapeutic gas or the known flow of therapeutic gas; and
            displaying the calculated dose of nitric oxide on a display module.
   14.      The method of claim 13, further comprising comparing the calculated dose of nitric
 5 oxide to a predetermined limit and providing an alert if the calculated dose of nitric oxide the
   measured flow of breathing gas is above or below the predetermined limit.
   15.      The method of claim 13 or 14, wherein the alert includes one or more of an audible
   alert, a visual alert and a text alert.
   16.      The method of claim 14 or 15, wherein the predetermined limit comprises a delivery
10 error greater than or equal to about 25%.
   17.      The method of any of claims 13 to 16, wherein calculated dose of nitric oxide is
   displayed in parts per million (ppm) and/or as a percentage of a desired delivery concentration.
   18.      The method of any of claims 13 to 17, wherein the calculated dose of nitric oxide is one
   or more of an average calculated dose, an instantaneous calculated dose, a maximum
15 calculated dose and a minimum calculated dose.
   19.      The method of any of claims 13 to 18, further comprising displaying the measured flow
   of breathing gas.
   20.      The method of any of claims 13 to 19, wherein displaying the measured flow of
   breathing gas includes displaying one or more of volumetric flow rate, tidal volume, and
20 minute ventilation.
   21.      The method of any of claims 13 to 20, wherein the measured flow of breathing gas is
   one or more of an average flow rate, an instantaneous flow rate, a peak flow rate and a
   minimum measured flow rate.

                                       
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   INDICATOR
                                                                     <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03F3>
               <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03F4>                Wh
                          <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03F1>
                                             <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03ED>    <U+03ED><U+03ED><U+03F1>
                    <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03EF>
              <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03EE>
                                                               <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03F0>
                                <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03F2>
                                      FIG. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             <U+03EE><U+03ED><U+03F1>                
FIG. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                
FIG. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                
FIG. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                
FIG. 5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                
FIG. 6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                
FIG. 7

