                                          Abstract
Generally, babysitters, carers or nannies are called in to look after kids at the parent's homes
under different types of engagements such as casual, au pair, part time or full time.
Regardless of the type of engagement, the babysitter or nanny must attend the parent's (or
client's) home to provide the service. There are several websites that provide these
babysitting services. The service here refers to a new way of working in which people
('Parents') bring their kids to other people's homes ('Babysitters') for a determined period of
time and then they pick them up. Meaning, the babysitter, carer or nanny provides the service
from their own home. This happens usually by, but not limited to, private arrangements
between the people involved.

Title
Holdmykid.com is an online platform that allows people ('Parents') to book
other people's time ('Babysitters') to look after kids at the babysitter's homes.
Summary
[0001]       Generally, babysitters, carers or nannies are called in to look after
kids at the parent's homes under different types of engagements such as
casual, au pair, part time or full time. Regardless of the type of engagement,
the babysitter or nanny must attend the parent's (or client's) home to provide
the service. There are several websites that provide these babysitting services.
[0002]       The service being patented here refers to a new way of working in
which people ('Parents') bring their kids to other people's homes ('Babysitters')
for a determined period of time and then they pick them up. Meaning, the
babysitter, carer or nanny provides the service from their own home. This
happens usually by, but not limited to, private arrangements between the
people involved.
[0003] Holdmykid.com is the first and only digital platform that allows this
service model to work.

CLAIMS
    1.     Any kind of website, portal, smartphone or mobile application or
     any digital channel that allows people ('Parents') to book other people's
     time ('Babysitters') with the purpose of looking after, babysitting or
     caring for their kids, at the babysitter's home.
    2.     Any kind of service that promotes, encourages or allows the
     service described on claim 1 to happen, regardless of the way it's
     delivered.

