Abstract
Improved host cells and culture methods involving over expression of MANICl activity to improve
protein production are provided.

                      Improved Host Cells and Culture Methods
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                The invention relates to improved host cells and culture methods that improve
glycoprotein production.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                 Methods of increasing recombinant host protein production in the
pharmaceutical industry and in the laboratory are highly desirable in many ways, including
cost savings, times savings, and manufacturing capacity. Treatment with sodium butyrate has
been one means of increasing protein production in cell culture in commercial
biopharmaceutical processes. However, the derived benefit of increased protein yields is
sometimes offset by the toxic side effects of sodium butyrate.
                 Sodium butyrate is a short chain fatty acid that inhibits the histone deacetylase
(HDAC) enzyme responsible for the maintenance of chromatin structure in the nucleus of
cells (Davie, J. Nutrition 133: 2485S-2493S, 2003). The loss of activity results in an
alteration in transcriptional regulation of genes through the normal acetylation and
deacetylation process of histones (Prasad et al., In Vitro 12: 125-132, 1976). The change in
transcriptional regulation has been shown to increase the specific productivity of cell lines
producing recombinant proteins in vitro. For example, sodium butyrate has been shown to
increase the synthesis of secreted recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), tissue
plasminogen activator (tPA), erythropoietin (EPO), and thrombopoietin (TPO) in Chinese
hamster ovary (CHO) cells (Sung et al., J Biotechnology 112: 323-335, 2004; Hendrick et al.
 Cytotechnology 36: 71-83, 2001; Chmng et al., J. Microbiol,Biotechnol. 11, 1087-1092,
2001; Chotigeat et al., Cytotechnology 15: 217-221, 1994; Chang et al., Free Radical
Research 30: 85-91, 1999). The precise mechanisms responsible for these increases are
uncertain. Sodium butyrate treatment has been shown to transiently increase mRNA levels
                                                   1

ror recomomnant protein, resuming in increases in resulting protein biosynthesis (Yuan et al.,
J Biol, Chem. 260: 3778-3783, 1985).
                 Changes in gene expression caused by sodium butyrate have been studied
previously in cell lines involved in colon cancer research. The studies demonstrated that
sodium butyrate alters the expression of multiple genes involved in cell cycle progression,
differentiation, cytokine signaling, and apoptosis. However, such studies were limited to
relatively a small subset of genes and did not determine whether genes were involved in
protein biosynthesis. (Joseph et al., Oncogene 23: 6304-6315, 2004; Tabuchi et al., Biochem.
Biophys. Research Comm. 293: 1287-1294, 2002; Iacomino et al., Biochen. Biophys.
Research Comm. 285: 1280-1289,2001; Mariadason et al., CancerRes. 60: 4561-4572,
2000; Della Ragione et al., FEBSLetters499, 199-204, 2001).
                 Alpha 1,2 mannosidase I enzyme (MAN1C1) is an enzyme involved in
glycoprotein N-linked oligosaccharide processing that has been described in Tremblay et al.
(Glycobiology 8: 585-595, 1998) and Gonzalez et al. (J. Biol. Chein. 274: 21375-21386,
 1999). The enzyme catalyzes the first mannose trimming step associated with processing of
high mannose oligosaccharide structures by removing a terminal mannose sugar from the
oligosaccharide. N-terminal glycosylation involves the addition and removal of various
monosaccharide sugars in both the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi compartments
(Kornfeld et al., Ann. Rev. Biochen. 54:'631-664, 1985), In the ER, the N-linked
glycosylation is accompanied by the folding of nascent glycoproteins into their native
 structure through interactions with molecular chaperones (Ellgaard et al., Science 286: 1882
 1888, 1999; Jakob et ab, J. Cell Biol. 142: 1223-1233, 1998). This process has been termed
ER quality control, and if the process is blocked due to a misfolded protein, the onset of ER
 associated degradation, or ERAD, of the protein typically occurs (Ellgaard et al., Curr. Opin.
 Cell Biol. 13: 431-437, 2001; Sifers, Science 299: 1330-1331, 2003; Oda et al., Science 299:
 1394-1397, 2003; Molinari et al., Science 299:1397-1400, 2003; Hurtley et al., Ann. Rev. Cell
Biol. 5: 277-307, 1989). The removal of a terminal mannose sugar from Mang to Man 8 by the
 alpha 1,2 mannosidase I enzyme (MAN1C1) has been shown to affect the onset of the ERAD
 response (Liu et al., J Biol. Chein. 274: 5861-5867, 1999; Grinna et al. J. Biol. Chen. 255,
 2255-2258, 1980).
                                                2

                  In Wiw of the toxicity of protein production inducers such as sodium butyrate,
there exists a need for other means of increasing overall production of recombinant proteins
in cell culture.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                  The present invention provides host cells engineered to overexpress alpha 1,2
mannosidase (MANICI) and a glycoprotein or protein of interest. Such host cells may
comprise a heterologous expression control sequence operably linked to a nucleic acid
encoding MANIC1, and a heterologous expression control sequence operably linked to a
nucleic acid encoding such glycoprotein. The host cells may engineered to overexpress either
or both MANICI and the glycoprotein of interest by any means lnown in the art, including
transfection with a vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding the protein, wherein the nucleic
acid is operably linked to a heterologous expression control sequence, or transfection with an
expression control sequence that upregulates expression of endogenous protein.
                 The invention further provides methods of producing a glycoprotein of interest
comprising the steps of: culturing any of the host cells of the invention in culture medium;
and recovering such glycoprotein from the host cell or culture medium. Such a host cell is
cultured under conditions that induce increased MANI1C1 protein expression or increased
specific productivity of the glycoprotein of interest. It is further contemplated that such a
host cell expresses MANICI protein at a level that increases the amount (pg/mg protein) or
specific productivity (pg/cell/day) of such glycoprotein produced. Improvements in such
glycoprotein production or specific productivity may be, e.g., at least 2-fold, 3-, 4-, 5-, 6-, 7-,
8-, 9-, 10-, 15-, or 20-fold or higher.
                 The invention also contemplates methods of increasing production of a
glycoprotein of interest comprising the step of further adding an inducer of protein
production to the culture medium. Ilducers of protein production are well known to one of
skill in the art and are further provided herein.
                 The host cells and methods of the invention may be used to produce any
glycoprotein or protein of interest. Exemplary glycoproteins include erythropoiesis
stimulating molecules such as erythropoietin or darbepoetin, or analogs, variants, or
                                                 3

  derivatives thereof. Host dells of the invention may be, but are not limited to, mammalian
  cells, CHO cells, human cells, BHK cells, NS1/0 cells, HT-1080 cells, or any other cell known
 to be useful in one of skill in the at.
                  In another aspect, the invention provides methods of screening for an inducer
 of protein production comprising the steps of: contacting a host cell with a candidate
 compound, detennining expression level of MAN1Cl, and identifying said candidate
 compound as an inducer of protein production if the expression level of MAN1 C1 increases.
 Such a method contemplates determining mRNA expression levels or protein expression
 levels.
                 Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the
 following detailed description. It should be understood, however, that the detailed
 description and the specific examples, while indicating exemplary embodiments of the
 invention, are given by way of illustration only, because various changes and modifications
within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art
 from this detailed description.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                 Figure 1 displays measured rHuEPO specific productivity (Qp) over 5-day
culture in the presence of sodium butyrate.
                 Figure 2A shows the effect of MAN1 C1 siRNA treatment on rHuEPO Qp in
the presence of sodium butyrate over a 5-day period. Figure 213 displays the fold change in
MAN1C1 nRNA levels in HT1 080 cells treated with sodiumbutyrate or sodium butyrate
plus siRNA.
                 Figure 3 displays changes in rHuEPO rmRNA levels in HT1080 cells treated
with sodium butyrate in the presence and absence of siRNA directed against MAN1Cl.
                 Figure 4 displays changes in rHuEPO specific productivity after transient
transfection with varying amounts of MAN1C1 DNA.
                                                4

                       DETAlED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                   The present invention provides materials and methods for increasing the
  recombinant production of a protein of interest in host cells. As used herein, a "protein of
  interest" is a protein (other than MAN1C1) for which the recombinant production of bulk
  quantities of such protein is desired.
                   More specifically, the invention includes host cells producing a recombinant
  protein of interest that have been additionally engineered to overexpress alpha 1,2
  mannosidase I enzyme (MAN1C1), cell cultures containing such host cells, and methods of
 producing increased amounts of the recombinant protein of interest comprising culturing such
 host cells under conditions such that MAN1C1 is expressed at levels higher than normal. The
 expression of higher levels of MAN1C1 results in improvements in specific productivity
 and/or protein production of the protein of interest.
                  The invention also contemplates methods of improving protein production or
 increasing specific productivity involving increasing the levels of MAN1 C1 activity in host
 cells through introduction of chemical inducers that increase MAN1C1 protein production, or
 chemical inducers that increase the specific activity of MAN1 Cl expressed.
                  The invention contemplates methods wherein the improved specific
productivity measures at least 2 pg glycoprotein/cell/day. In exemplary embodiments, the
 specific productivity measures at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35,
40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 pg glycoprotein/cell/day. However, greater specific
productivity is contemplated, especially with the use of additional inducers.
                  The present invention determined that one mechanism by which sodium
butyrate increases protein production is through upregulating expression of MAN1C1, a gene
involved in glycosylation of proteins. The data described herein show that high levels of
MAN1C1 expression do not significantly alter glycosylation of glycoproteins but
unexpectedly increase the amount of recombinant protein produced. MAN1C1 mRNA
expression was shown to dramatically increase when cells were treated with sodium butyrate,
to roughly 10-fold higher over a 24 hour period and greater than 40-fold over five day period.
Treatment of host cells expressing a recombinant protein of interest with siRNA to reduce
MAN1C1 protein expression reduced by 50% the sodium butyrate-induced increase in
                                                 5

  production of the p5tein   afinterest.  Moreover, overexpression of MANiCl in the absence
  of sodium butyrate resulted in a 2-3 fold increase in production of the protein of interest.
  Thus, the increased expression of MANI C1 contributes to the increase in specific
 productivity of the protein of interest.
                  The tenm "isolated nucleic acid " refers to a nucleic acid of the invention that
 is free from at least one contaminating nucleic acid with which it is naturally associated. A
 "nucleic acid" refers to a DNA or RNA sequence, optionally including artificial bases or base
 analogs.
                 The tenm "identity" (or "percent identical") is a measure of the percent of
 identical matches between the smaller of two or more sequences with gap alignments (if any)
 addressed by a particular mathematical model or computer program (i.e., "algorithms"). The
 tenn "similarity" is a related concept but, in contrast to "identity", includes both identical
matches and conservative substitution matches.' Identity and similarity of related nucleic acid
molecules and polypeptides can be readily calculated by known methods. Preferred methods
to determine identity and/or similarity are designed to give the largest match between the
sequences tested. Methods to determine identity and similarity are described in publicly
available computer programs. Exemplary computer program methods to determine identity
and similarity between two sequences include, but are not limited to, the GCG program
package, including GAP (Devereux et al., NucL. Acids. Res. 12: 387, 1984; Genetics
Computer Group, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.), BLASTP, BLASTN, and
FASTA (Altschul et al., J Mol. Biol. 215:403-410, 1990)). The BLASTX program is publicly
available from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and other sources
(BLAST Mannal, Altschul et al. NCB/NLM/NIH Bethesda, Md. 20894; Altschul et al.,
supra). The well-known Smith-Waterman algorithm may also be used to determine identity.
Preferred parameters for a polypeptide sequence comparison include the following:
Algorithm: Needleman et al., J Mol. Biol. 48: 443-453, 1970; Comparison matrix: BLOSUM
62 from Henikoff et al., Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 10915-10919, 1992); Gap Penalty:
12, Gap Length Penalty: 4; Threshold of Similarity: 0. The GAP program is useful with the
above parameters (along with no penalty for end gaps). Preferred parameters for nucleic acid
molecule sequence comparisons include the following: Algorithm: Needleman et al., J. Mol.
Biol., 48: 443-453, 1970; Comparison matrix: matches=+10, mismatch=0, Gap Penalty: 50,
                                                 6

Gap Length Penaltf"3. Tlid GAP program is also useful with the above parameters. Other
exemplary algorithms, gap opening penalties, gap extension penalties, comparison matrices,
thresholds of similarity, etc. may be used by those of skill in the art.
                 The term "operably linked" refers to a functional linkage between an
expression control sequence and a second nucleic acid sequence, wherein the expression
control sequence directs transcription of the nucleic acid corresponding to the second
sequence.
                 The phrase "stringent hybridization conditions" refers to conditions under
which a probe will hybridize to its target subsequence, typically in a complex mixture of
nucleic acid, but to no other sequences. Hybridization stringency is principally determined
by temperature, ionic strength, and the concentration of denaturing agents such as formanide.
Examples of "highly stringent conditions" for hybridization and washing are 0.0 15M'sodium
chloride, 0.0015M sodium citrate at 65-68'C or 0.015M sodium chloride, 0.0015M sodium
citrate, and 50% formamide at 42'C. See Sambrook, Fritsch & Maniatis, Molecular Cloning:
A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, (Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
 1989);(1989) and Anderson et al., Nucleic Acid Hybridisation:Hybridization: a practical
 approach, Ch. 4, IRL Press Limited (Oxford, England).Limited, Oxford, England (1999).
 Examples of typical "moderately stringent" conditions are 0.015M sodium chloride, 0.00 15M
 sodium citrate at 50-65'C or 0.015M sodium chloride, 0.0015M sodium citrate, and 20%
 formamide at 37-50'C. By way of example, a "moderately stringent" condition of 50'C in
 0.015 M sodium ion will allow about a 21% mismatch.
                  It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that there is no absolute
 distinction between "highly" and "moderately" stringent conditions. For example, at 0.015M
 sodium ion (no formarmide), the melting temperature of perfectly matched long DNA is about
 71'C. With a wash at 654C (at the same ionic strength), this would allow for approximately a
  6% mismatch. To capture more distantly related sequences, one skilled in the art can simply
  lower the temperature or raise the ionic strength.
                  The term "vector" is used to refer to any molecule (e.g., nucleic acid, plasmid,
  or virus) used to transfer coding information to a host cell.
                                                  7

                 Th6 tnn "expression vector" refers to a vector which is suitable for use in a
host cell and contains nucleic acid sequences which direct and/or control the expression of
desired nucleic acid sequences ("expression control sequences"). Suitable expression control
 sequences include constitutive or inducible or regulatable promoters, enhancers or an array of
transcription factor binding sites. "Expression" includes, but is not limited to, processes
leading to protein production such as transcription, translation, and RNA splicing, if introns
are present.
                 A "heterologous" expression control sequence operably linked to a nucleic
acid refers to an expression control sequence that is operably linked to a nucleic acid
(including a gene) that is different from the gene to which the expression control sequence is
normally operably linked in its native state.
                The term "host cell" is used to refer to a cell which has been transformed, or is
capable of being transformed with a nucleic acid sequence and then of expressing a selected
geneof interest. The term includes the progeny of the parent cell, whether or not the progeny
is identical in morphology or in genetic. make-up to the original parent, so long as the selected
gene is present.
                As- used herein, a host cell "engineered to overexpress" a protein (or a nucleic
acid encoding such protein) is a host cell, including a descendant thereof, that has been
altered in such. a way that higher levels of such protein are expressed than normal, compared
to the unaltered host cell. Thus, included within this category are expression of proteins
foreign to the host cell, proteins not naturally expressed by the host cell, or proteins naturally
expressed by the host cell at relatively low levels that increase aft6r alteration of the host cell.
                The section headings are used herein for organizational purposes only, and are
not to be construed as in any way limiting the subject matter described.
Increasing Alpha 1,2-Mannosidase (MAN1C1) Activity
                The invention contemplates that increasing the levels of alpha 1,2
mannosidase (MAN1 C1) activity in host cells during production of a protein of interest may
be accomplished through any means known in the art, including by adding a chemical
inducer or through overexpression of MAN1C1 enzyme. The MANIC 1 enzyme that the host
                                                 8

 cei overexpresses iiay have the same or similar sequence as a MAN 1C1 that is endogenous,
 or native, to the host cell. Thus, human MAN1C1 may be overexpressed in human host cells,
 CHO MANIC1 may be overexpressed in CHO host cells, and similarly native enzyme that
 carries out the MAN1C1 function may be overexpressed in other host cells. However, any
 MAN1 Cl enzyme that functions in the same way in the desired host cell may be used,
 including an ortholog, or a biologically active fragment, variant, analog or derivative.
                  As used herein, "analog" refers to a nucleotide or amino acid sequence that
 has insertions, deletions or substitutions relative to the parent sequence, while still
 substantially maintaining the biological activity of the parent sequence, as determined using
 biological assays known to one of skill in the art. "Variants" include naturally occurring
 allelic variants, splice variants, or polymorphic fonns of the parent sequence. "Derivatives"
 of naturally occurring, variant or analog polypeptides include those which have been
 chemically modified, for example, to attach water soluble polymers (e.g., polyethylene
 glycol), radionuclides, or other diagnostic or targeting or therapeutic moieties, any of which
 can be attached directly or indirectly through linkers.
                  "Biologically active" with respect to a MAN1C 1 polypeptide means that the
fragment, variant, derivative or analog thereof retains similar activity in improving specific
productivity, e.g. as measured as amount of protein of interest produced per cell per day, or
retains similar enzymatic activity in removing mannose from a suitable mannose-containing
substrate. "Biologically active" with respect to a MAN1C1 nucleic acid means that the
nucleic acid encodes such a biologically active MANIC1 polypeptide.
                  The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of an exemplary human MANlC1
are set forth in SEQ ED NOS: 1 and 2, respectively. Nucleotides 331 through 2223 of the
polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO: 1 encode the MAN1C1 polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2. The
nucleotide and polypeptide sequences for human MAN1C1 (SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2,
respectively, were identified by Tremblay et al. (J Biol. Chein. 275: 31655-31660, 2000) and
are provided in Genbank Accession No. AF261655. Exemplary polynucleotide and
polypeptide sequences of other orthologs and variants of MAN1C1 are identified in Genbank
Accession Nos. AB209275 (SEQ ID NOS: 12 and 13) and DV567987 (SEQ ID NO: 14).
                 The tem "MAN1Cl" as used herein refers to human MAN1C1 (the
polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2 encoded by the polynucleotide of SEQ. ID NO: 1), orthologs
                                                9

     nereor, or a biologibally'detive fragment, variant, analog, or derivative of the human
                                                                                               enzyme
   or orthologs. Exemplary analogs retain 65% or higher amino acid identity to the parent
   sequence, or 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or
   99% or higher identity. Exemplary fragments include fragments of at least 25, 50, 75, 100,
                                                                                                     or
   more amino acid residues of a MANIC 1 polypeptide. Other exemplary MANIC1 fragments,
   variants, analogs or derivatives include those encoded by nucleic acids that would hybridize
   under highly or moderately stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence
                                                                                   of SEQ ID NO: 1
   or any other orthologs of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1.
                    As used herein, the term "MANICI nucleic acid" or "MANICI
  polynucleotide" refers to a nucleic acid that encodes any
                                                               of the preceding polypeptides,
  including a nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1, or nucleic acids comprising
  nucleotide sequences that are at least about 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%,
  97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical thereto, or nucleic acids which hybridize under
  moderately or highly stringent conditions as defined herein with the complement of SEQ
                                                                                                  ID
  NO: 1 or any other orthologs of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1.
                   It is also understood that MANI Cl nucleic acids include allelic or splice
  variants of a MANIC1 nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 1 or any other orthologs, and include
  nucleotide sequences which are complementary to any of the above nucleotide
                                                                                      sequences.
                  Where a gene encoding a MANIC1 polypeptide has been identified from one
 species, all or a portion of that gene may be used as a probe or primer to identify
 corresponding genes from other species (orthologs, or "species homologs") or related
                                                                                              genes
 from the same species (homologs). The probes or primers may be used for hybridization
 screening or PCR amplification of genomic DNA or cDNA libraries from various
                                                                                         tissue
 sources believed to express the MANICI gene. Appropriate conditions of hybridization
 stringency can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. Bioinformatic techniques
 can also be used to identify orthologs, wherein collections of sequences from various
 mammalian or other species are screened for nucleotide or polypeptide sequences
                                                                                        that exhibit
 significant homology to lown MAN1C1 sequences. Nucleic acids encoding MANIC 1
polypeptides may also be identified by expression cloning which employs the detection
                                                                                               of
positive clones based upon a property of the expressed protein. Typically, nucleic
                                                                                         acid
libraries are screened by the binding of an antibody or other binding partner (e.g., receptor
                                                                                                  or
                                                 10

ligana) to cfoned prOteins-Which are expressed and displayed on a host cell surface. The
antibody or binding partner is modified with a detectable label to identify those cells
expressing the desired clone.
                Although the invention primarily contemplates that MANIC1 will be
overexpressed, i.e., expressed in the altered host cell at a greater level than normal in the
unaltered host cell, the invention also contemplates methods for decreasing or inhibiting the
expression of MANIC1 in cells, e.g. through administration of siRNA or antisense
compounds.
Inducers of Protein Production
                The invention also contemplates the use of other known inducers of protein
production in combination with the host cells which overexpress MAN1C1 and another
protein of interest, to further increase overall production of the protein of interest. Known
inducers include, but are not limited to, the following compounds: N-Acetyl-L-cysteine,
Actinomycin-D, 7-Amino-, Bafilamycin Al, Streptomyces griseus, Calphostin C,
Cladosporium cladosporioides,Camptothecin, Caniptotheca acuminata,CAPE, 2-Chloro-2'
deoxyadenosine, 2-Chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine 5'-Triphosphate, Tetralithium Salt,
Cycloheximide, Cyclophosphamide Monohydrate, Cyclosporine, Trichodernapolysporui,
Daunorubicin, Hydrochloride, Dexamethasone, Doxorabicin, Hydrochloride, (-)
Epigallocatechin Gallate, Etoposide, Etoposide Phosphate, ET-1 8-OCH3, 5-Fluorouracil, H
7, Dihydrochloride, Genistein, 4-Hydroxynonenal, 4-Hydroxyphenylretinamide,
Hydroxyurea, IL-IP Inhibitor, (±)-S-Nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, S-Nitrosoglutathione,
Phorbol-1 2-myristate- 13-acetate, Puromycin, Dihydrochloride, 1-Pyrrolidinecarbodithioic
Acid, Anunonium Salt, Quercetin, Dihydrate, Rapamycin, Sodium Butyrate, Sodium 4
Phenylbutyrate, D-erythro-Sphingosine, N-Acetyl-, D-erythro-Sphingosine, N-Octanoyl-,
Staurosporine, Streptomyces sp., Sulindac, Thapsigargin, TRAIL, E. coli, Trichostatin A,
Streptomyces sp., (+)-Verapamil, Hydrochloride, Veratridine, Vitamin D3, la, 25
Dihydroxy-, and Vitamin E Succinate (VWR and Calbiochem).
                The invention farther contemplates the identification of other chemicals that
improve protein production through increasing MANIC1 activity, for example via increasing
                                                 11

MAN 1C1 expression. increases in MANI1C1 activity can be determined as described by
Tremblay et al. (2000, supra).
                Increases in MAN1C1 expression can be detennined by measuring relative
 amounts of MAN1C1 nRNA produced as described in Example 4 (using Affyietrix chip) or
Example 5 (quantitative PCR), or MANICI protein produced via ELISA, HPLC, or other
methods known in the art or as described by Tremblay et al. (2000, supra).
Proteins of Interestfor Recombinant Production
                The recombinant protein of interest that the host cell overexpresses can be any
polypeptide, either endogenous (native) or exogenous to the cell. Exemplary proteins of
interest are glycoproteins, including secreted glycoproteins. In exemplary embodiments, the
glycoprotein of interest is an erythropoiesis-stimulating molecule, described below.
                The amount of recombinant protein of interest produced may be measured as
"specific productivity," which is the amount of protein of interest produced per cell per day.
The amount of recombinant protein of interest produced may also be measured by amount of
protein of interest produced per amount of cell protein. Methods of measuring specific
productivity or protein production are well known in the art.
                The recombinant proteins of interest for which expression can be increased
using the materials and methods of the invention can be any polypeptide, either endogenous
or exogenous to the cell. Exemplary recombinant proteins of interest are glycoproteins,
especially N-glycosylated glycoproteins. Exemplary glycoproteins of interest include
secreted glycoproteins such as erythropoiesis-stimulating molecules.
                The terms "polyp eptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably herein.
                The term "erythropoiesis-stimulating molecules" as used herein includes
human erythropoietin (SEQ. ID NO.: 3) or a biologically active variant, derivative, or analog
thereof, including a chemically modified derivative of such protein or analog. Amino acids 1
through 165 of SEQ ID NO: 3 constitute the mature protein. Another exemplary
erythropoiesis-stimulating molecule is darbepoetin (SEQ ID NO: 5). Amino acids 1 through
165 of SEQ. ID NO: 5 constitute the mature protein. Also contemplated are analogs of
erythropoietin (SEQ ID NO.: 3) or darbepoetin (SEQ. ID NO: 5), with 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
                                               12

85%79U% 91%, 92%,'93%;"94%,95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identity to SEQ. ID NO: 3
or SEQ. IDNO: 5, respectively, and still retaining erythropoietic activity.
                 Exemplary sequences, manufacture, purification and use of recombinant
human erythropoietin are described in a number of patent publications, including but not
limited to Lin U.S. Patent 4,703,008 and Lai et al. U. S. Patent 4,667,016, each of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Darbepoetin is a hyperglycosylated
erythropoietin analog having five changes in the amino acid sequence of rHuEPO which
provide for two additional carbohydrate chains. More specifically, darbepoetin contains two
additional N-linked carbohydrate chains at amino acid residues 30 and 88 of SEQ ID NO: 5.
Exemplary sequences, manufacture, purification and use of darbepoetin and other
erythropoietin analogs are described in a number of patent publications, including Strickland
et al., 91/05 867, Elliott et al., WO 95/05465, Egrie et al., WO 00/24893, and Egrie et al. WO
01/81405, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Derivatives of
naturally occurring or analog polypeptides include those which have been chemically
modified, for example;to attach water soluble polymers (e.g., pegylated), radionuclides, or
other diagnostic or targeting, or therapeutic moieties.
                 The term "erythropoietic activity" means activity to stimulate erythropoiesis
as demonstrated in an in vivo assay, for example, the exhypoxic polycythernic mouse assay.
See, e.g., Cotes and Bangham, Nature 191:1065 (1961).
                 Other polypeptides of interest for which recombinant production can be
increased using the materials and methods of the invention include cytokines,
immunoglobulin-like proteins, antibodies, and peptibodies, and analogs, variants, or
derivatives of any of these proteins.
                 Exemplary proteins of interest include granulocyte-colony stimulating factor
(GCSF), stein cell factor, leptin, hormones, cytokines, hematopoietic factors, growth factors,
antiobesity factors, trophic factors, anti-inflammatory factors, receptors or soluble receptors,
such as a soluble fragment of p80 TNF-R, enzymes, and Fc-fusions of any of the preceding.
Other examples include insulin, gastrin, prolactin, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH),
thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone
(PSH), human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), motilin, interferons (alpha, beta, gamma),
interleukins (IL-1 to IL- 12), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), tumor necrosis factor-binding
                                               13

 ptoteih"(TNFbp)'SI"TNF"i6teptor-I or -II, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), glial
 derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurotrophic factor 3 (NT3), fibroblast growth factors
 (FGF), neurotrophic growth factor (NGF), bone growth factors such as osteoprotegerin
 (OPG), insulin-like growth factors (IGFs), macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF),
 granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), megakaryocyte derived
 growth factor (MGDF), keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), thrombopoietin, platelet-derived
 growth factor (PGDF), colony simulating growth factors (CSFs), bone morphogenetic protein
 (BMP), superoxide dismutase (SOD), tissue plasminogen activator (TPA), urokinase,
 streptokinase, or kallikrein, receptors or soluble receptors, enzymes, variants, derivatives, or
 analogs including Fc-fusions of.any of these proteins.
                 As used herein, the term "antibody" includes fully assembled antibodies,
 monoclonal antibodies (including human, humanized or chimeric antibodies), polyclonal
 antibodies, multispecific antibodies (e.g., bispecific antibodies), Maxibody, and antibody
 fragments that can bind antigen (e.g., Fab', F'(ab)2, Fv, single chain antibodies, diabodies),
 comprising complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the foregoing as long as they
 exhibit the desired biological activity.
                 Exemplary antibodies are Herceptin@ (Trastuzumab), a recombinant DNA
derived humanized monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to the extracellular domain of
the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2) proto-oncogene; and Rituxan@
(Rituximab), a genetically engineered chimeric murine/hurnan monoclonal antibody directed
 against the CD20 antigen found on the surface of normal and malignant B lymphocytes.
Other exemplary antibodies include Avastin@ (bevacizumab), Bexxar@ (Tositumomab),
Camp ath@ (Alemtuzumab), Erbitux@ (Cetuximab), Humira@ (Adalimumab), Raptiva@
(efalizumab), Remicade@ (Infliximab), ReoPro@ (Abciximab), Simulect@ (Basiliximab),
Synagis@ (Palivizunab), Xolair@ (Omalizumab), Zenapax@ (Daclizumab), Zevalin@
(Ibritumnomab Tiuxetan ), or Mylotarg@ (gentuzumab ozogamicin), receptors or soluble
receptors, enzymes, variants, derivatives, or analogs of any of these antibodies.
                Peptibodies, molecules comprising an antibody Fc domain attached to at least
one antigen-binding peptide, are generally described in PCT publication WO 00/24782,
published May 4, 2000. Immunoglobulin-like proteins, members of the immunoglobulin
                                                 14

"sapnThhiy;-contaiiY ofie or more immunoglobulin-like domains which 'fold in structures
similar to portions of the antibody variable region.
Engineering Host Cells to Overexpress Protein
                Host cells can be engineered to overexpress a protein in a variety of ways
known in the art, including but not limited to insertion of exogenous nucleic acid encoding
the desired protein, optionally as part of an expression vector, insertion of an exogenous
expression control sequence such that it causes increased expression of the host cell's
endogenous gene encoding the desired protein, or activation of the host cell's endogenous
expression control sequence(s) to increase expression of endogenous gene encoding the
desired protein.
                Cultures of host cells can be prepared according to any methods known in the
art, and methods of growing such host cells and recovering recombinant protein produced by
the cells, whether from the cells or culture medium, are known in the art. Such culturing
methods may involve addition of chemical inducers of protein production to the culture
medium. Exemplary host cells and procedures are described below.
                A nucleic acid encoding a MANICI polypeptide may be inserted into an
appropriate expression vector using standard ligation techniques. Expression vectors
optionally may include a promoter, one or more enhancer sequences, an origin of replication,
a transcriptional termination sequence, a complete intron sequence containing a donor and
acceptor splice site, a sequence encoding a leader or signal sequence for polypeptide
secretion, a ribosome binding.site, a polyadenylation sequence, a polylinker region for
inserting the nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide to be expressed, and/or a selectable
marker element. Each of these sequences is discussed below.
                Optionally, the vector may contain a "tag"-encoding sequence, i.e., an
oligonucleotide sequence located at the 5' or 3' end of the MANICI polypeptide coding
sequence; the oligonucleotide molecule encodes polyHis (such as hexaHis), or another "tag"
such as FLAG, HA (hemaglutinin influenza virus) or myc for which commercially available
antibodies exist. This tag is typically fused to the polypeptide upon expression of the
                                               15

polypeptice, ana cairserve' Oa means for detection or affinity purification of the MAN1C1
polypeptide from the host cell.
                 Suitable vectors include, but are not limited to, cosmids, plasmids, or modified
viruses, but it will be appreciated that the vector system must be compatible with the selected
host cell. Nucleic acid can be transferred into host cells by any means known in the art, e.g.
through liposome-mediated transfer, receptor-mediated transfer (ligand-DNA complex),
electroporation, microinjection of DNA, cell fusion, DEAE-dextran, calcium chloride,
calcimn phosphate precipitation, microparticle bombardment, infection with viral vectors,
lipofection, transfection, or homologous recombination.
                 The invention also contemplates useof homologous recombination or other
recombinant production methods utilizing control elements introduced into cells already
containing DNA encoding MANICI polypeptides. For example, homologous recombination
methods may be used to modify a cell that contains a normally transcriptionally silent
MANICI gene, or an under expressed gene, and thereby produce a cell which expresses
therapeutically efficacious amounts of MAN1C1 polypeptides. Homologous recombination
is a technique originally developed for targeting genes to induce or correct mutations in
transcriptionally active genes (Kucherlapati, Prog.Nucl. Acid Res. & Mol. Biol. 36: 301,
1989). The basic technique was developed as a method for introducing specific mutations
into specific regions of the mammalian genome (Thomas et al., Cell 44: 419-428, 1986;
Thomas et al., Cell 51:503-512, 1987; Doetschman et al., Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci. 85: 8583
8587, 1988) or to correct specific mutations within defective genes (Doetsclnan et al.,
Nature 330: 576-578, 1987). Exemplary homologous recombination techniques are
described in U.S. Patent No..5,272,071 (EP 9193051, EP Publication No. 505500;
PCT/US90/07642, International Publication No. WO 91/09955).
                 Through homologous recombination, the DNA sequence to be inserted into
the genome can be directed to a specific region of the gene of interest by attaching it to
targeting DNA. The targeting DNA is a nucleotide sequence that is complementary
(homologous) to a region of the genomic DNA. Small pieces of targeting DNA that are
complementary to a specific region of the genome are put in contact with the parental strand
during the DNA replication process. It is a general property of DNA that has been inserted
into a cell to hybridize, and therefore, recombine with other pieces of endogenous DNA
                                                16

 through siarmW holal.ogoust egions. If this complementary strand is attached to an
 oligonucleotide that contains a mutation or a different sequence or an additional nucleotide, it
 too is incorporated into the newly synthesized strand as a result of the recombination. As a
 result of the proofreading function, it is possible for the new sequence of DNA to serve as the
 template. Thus, the transferred DNA is incorporated into the genome.
                 Attached to these pieces of targeting DNA are regions of DNA which may
 interact with or control the expression of a MANIC1 polypeptide, e.g., flanking sequences.
For example, a promoter and/or enhancer element, or an exogenous transcription modulatory
 element, optionally including an intron, is inserted in the genome of the intended host cell in
proximity and orientation sufficient to influence the transcription of DNA encoding the
 desired MANI CI polypeptide. The control element controls a portion of the DNA present in
the host cell genome. Thus, the expression of MAN1C1 polypeptide may be achieved not by
transfection of DNA that encodes the MANICI gene itself, but rather by the use of targeting
DNA (containing regions of homology with the endogenous gene of interest) coupled with
DNA regulatory segments that provide the endogenous gene sequence with recognizable
signals for transcription of a MAN1C1 polypeptide.
                 In an exemplary embodiment, DNA which includes at least a regulatory
sequence, an exon and a splice donor site is introduced into the chromosomal DNA in such a
manner as to produce a new transcription unit (in which the regulatory sequence, the exon
and the splice donor site present in the DNA construct are operatively linked to the
endogenous gene).
                 Overexpression, as described herein, encompasses activating (or causing to be
expressed) a gene which is normally silent (unexpressed) in the cell as obtained, as well as
increasing the expression of a gene which is not expressed at physiologically significant
levels in the cell as obtained.
                 Site-specific recombination systems such as Cre/loxP, FLP/FRT are loown in
the art (Sauer, Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 521-527, 1994; Sauer, Meth. Enzynol. 225: 890-900,
 1993).
                 An additional approach for increasing, or causing, the expression of MANIC1
polypeptide from a cell's endogenous MANICi gene involves increasing the expression of
                                                 17

  frans6riiti6nrfactoi-that djiffgulate expression of the gene and/or decreasing the expression
  of transcriptional repressors that downregulate expression of the gene, in a rnanner which
  results in de novo or increased MANI C1 polypeptide production from the cell's endogenous
 MANIC1 gene.
                  Thus, the invention contemplates host cells into which nucleic acid encoding
 MANICl has been inserted, optionally operably linked to an expression control sequence,
  and optionally as part of an expression vector. The invention also contemplates host cells
 into which a heterologous expression control sequence has been inserted in such a manner as
 to increase MANI Cl expression, including host cells in which the native MANI C1 gene is
 operably linked to a heterologous expression control sequence.
                  Any host cells or hosts known in the art for recombinant protein production
 may be used, including yeast cells, plant cells, plants, insect cells, and mauunnalian cells, and
 transgenic animals. Exemplary yeast cells include Pichia, e.g. P. pastoris,'and
 Saccharoinyces e.g. S. cerevisiae, as well as Schizosaccharomycesponbe, Kluyveromnyces, K
 Zactis, K fragilis,K bulgaricus,K wickerainii,K .waltii,K. drosophilarum,K.
 thernotolerans,and K narxianus;K yarrowia; Trichoderima reesia,Neurospora crassa,
 Schwanniomyces, Schwannioinyces occidentalis,Neurospora,Peniciliuin, Totypocladium,
 Aspergillus, A. nidulans, A. niger,Hansenula, Candida,-Kloeckera,Torulopsis, and
 Rhodotorula. Exemplary insect cells include Auto grapha californicaand Spodoptera
frugiperda, and Drosophila. Exemplary mammalian cells include varieties of CHO, BHK,
 HEK-293, NSO, YB2/3, SP2/0, and human cells such as PER-C6 or HT1080, as well as
 VERO, HeLa, COS, MDCK, NIH3T3, Jurkat, Saos, PC-12, HCT 116, L929, Ltk-, W138,
 CVI, TM4, W138, Hep G2, MMT, a leukemic cell line,.embryonic stem cell or fertilized egg
 cell.
 Culturing Methods and Polypeptide Production
                 The invention also provides methods for culturing, i.e. growing, host cells
 under conditions that increase MAN1C1 protein expression and result in increased specific
productivity or protein production of any of the recombinant proteins of interest described
                                                  18

 here.    Such methods may further include the step of recovering the recombinant protein of
 interest produced from the host cells or culture medium.
                 When the recombinant protein of interest is secreted into the medium, the
 medium can be harvested periodically, so that the same host cells can be used through several
 harvest cycles. In exemplary embodiments, host cells producing erythropoiesis-stinmlating
 molecules are incubated in three discrete batch harvest cycles. For each cycle, medium is
 harvested and replaced with fresh medium replacing the harvested medium. The first cycle
may be, e.g., 8 days; the second cycle, e.g., 7 days; and the third cycle, e.g., 5 days in
 duration.
                 A variety of culture systems are known in the art, including T-flasks, spinner
 and shaker flasks, roller bottles and stirred-tank bioreactors. Roller bottle cultivation is
generally carried out by seeding cells into roller bottles that are partially filled (e.g., to 10
30% of capacity) with medium and slowly rotated, allowing cells to attach to the sides of the
bottles and grow to confluency. The cell medium is harvested by decanting the supernatant,
which is replaced with fresh medium. Anchorage-dependent cells can also be cultivated on
microcarrier, e.g. polymeric spheres, that are maintained in suspension in stirred-tank
bioreactors. Alternatively, cells can be grown in single-cell suspension.
                 Culture medium may be added in a batch process, e.g. where culture medium
is added once to the cells in a single batch, or in a fed batch process in which small batches of
culture medium are periodically added. Medium can be harvested at the end of culture or
several times during culture. Continuously perfused production processes are also known in
the art, and involve continuous feeding of fresh medium into the culture, while the same
volume is continuously withdrawn from the reactor. Perfused cultures generally achieve
higher cell densities than batch cultures'and can be maintained for weeks or months with
repeated harvests.
                Host cells of the invention may be cultured using standard media well known
to the skilled artisan. The media will usually contain all nutrients necessary for the growth
and survival of the cells.. Suitable media for culturing eukaryotic cells are, Roswell Park
Memorial Institute medium 1640 (RPMI 1640), Minimal Essential Medium (MEM), and/or
Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM), all of which may be supplemented with serum
and/or growth factors as indicated by the particular cell line being cultured. A suitable
                                                19

 iedfiff tbr insect cultures is Grace's medium supplemented with yeastolate, Iactalbumin
hydrolysate, and/or fetal calf serum as necessary.
                Typically, an antibiotic or other compound useful for selective growth of
transformed cells is added as a supplement to the media. The compound to be used will be
dictated by the selectable marker element present on the plasmid with which the host cell was
transformed. For example, where the selectable marker element is kanamycin resistance, the
compound added to the culture medium will be kanamycin. Other compounds for selective
growth include ampicillin, tetracycline, geneticin, and neomycin.
                The amount of a MANICI polypeptide and the amount of desired
recombinant protein of interest produced by a host cell can be evaluated using standard
methods known in the art. Such methods include, without limitation, Western blot analysis,
SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, non-denaturing gel electrophoresis, High
Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) separation, immiunoprecipitation, and/or
activity assays such as DNA binding gel shift assays. The invention also contemplates that
specific productivity (expressed as pg/cell/day) of protein of interest can be evaluated using
standard methods as known in the art and as described herein.
Examples
                The present invention is described in more detail with reference to the
following non-limiting examples, which are offered to more fully illustrate the invention, but
are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof The examples illustrate various methods
used in the invention,- such as cell culture methods; recombinant HuEPO quantitation by RP
HIPLC; analysis of gene expression using Affymetrix chips; quantitative real time PCR of
selected genes; the use of MAN1C1 siRNA; and MANIC1 cloning and expression. The
examples also illustrate the effect of sodiiun butyrate on rHuEPO specific productivity and
cell cycle progression; the effect of sodium butyrate on MANiCI expression; the effect of
MANICI small interfering RNA (siRNA) on rHuEPO specific productivity; and the effect of
the overexpression of MANICi on rHuEPO specific productivity.
                The techniques described in these examples represent techniques described by
the inventors to function well in the practice of the invention, and as such constitute
                                               20

'eeipmsryffddes"lI- the practice thereof. Many changes can be made in the specific
methods that are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the
                                                                             of the invention.
 spirit and scope of the invention. Such variations are intended as aspects
                                            Example 1
                                      Cell Culture Methods
                 A human kidney fibrosarcoma cell line, HT1080 (Rasheed et al., Cancer 33:
 1027-1033, 1974), transfected with a plasmid for human EPO cDNA was used throughout the
                                                                                 for the retention
 experiments described in the Examples as set out below. Selective pressure
 of the transfected plasmid was maintained with the antibiotic geneticin (Gibco). Cells were
                                                           2
 grown as attached monolayers in vented T-flasks (75cm ) (Corning) at an inoculation density
 of 2.1 x 104 cells/cm 2 in a humidified 12 % CO 2 incubator at 37'C. Cells were grown for 4-5
 days in 10% serum containing DMEM media supplemented with IX Non-Essential amino
 acids, 5mg/L geneticin, and 1.5g/L sodium bicarbonate (all from Gibco). After cells reached
 confluence, they were washed with PBS to remove the serum and switched to serum-free 1:1
 DMEM/F-12 media supplemented with 1X Non-Essential amino acids (Gibco), 1.5 g/L
 sodium bicarbonate, and 2 g/L glucose for a period of 5 to 7 days. Experimental cultures
 were treated with 2 mM sodium butyrate (Sigma) on the same day as the serum-free media
  addition.
                                                21

                                            Example 2
                       Recombinant HuEPO Quantitation by RP-HPLC
                To determine the amount of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO)
produced in cell culture media, 200 [1 of nedia were analyzed by reversed phase HPLC.
Samples were separated on an analytical styrene/divinylbenzene HPLC column equipped
with a guard colunn (Polymer Labs) using a linear gradient from 30-65% CH3CN in 0.1%
TFA over 17 minutes (Sigma). The retention time for rHuEPO expressed in cell culture was
approximately 15.5 minutes and corresponded with a purified rHuEPO standard (Amgen
Inc). Integrated peak areas of unknown samples were quantitated by comparison to a
standard curve of purified rHuEPO.
                                            Example 3
                      Analysis of Gene Expression using Affymetrix chip
                The expression of genes in HT1080 cells was studied over a 24 hour period in
the presence and absence of sodium butyrate using oligonucleotide microarrays and the
HU133A Affymetrix chip (Affyrnetrix).. All experiments were carried out according to
Affymetrix protocols. A total of 24 chips Were analyzed - 12 from sodium butyrate-treated
cells and 12 controls. The gene expression data from the Affymetrix software was first
imported into GeneSpring@ version 6.0 and normalized using the software's global
normalization procedure. Values below 0.011 were set to 0.01 and each measurement was
divided by the  50 ' percentile of all measurements for that sample. Each gene was then
divided by the median of its measurements in all samples, and if the median of the raw values
was below 10, then each measurement for that gene was divided by 10. Sample data for each
chip was then grouped by treatment type (control or sodium butyrate) and by time (3, 6, 12,
and 24 hours). Results from the expression data were compared to the publicly available
gene list from the Consortium for functional Glycomics cDNA array (GLYCOv2 Gene Chip)
for genes present in four categories: glycan degradation, glycan transferase, glycan transport,
and sugar nucleotides, as defined by the Consortium gene list.
                                               22

                                           Example 4
                       Quantitative Real Time PCR of Selected Genes
                TaqMan (Applied Biosystems Inc.) reverse transcription quantitative real time
 PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to verify the changes in mRNA expression seen using the
Affymetrix chip. Probes to MANICI and rHuEPO were generated using Primer Express
 software (Applied Biosystems Incorporated), MANIC1: Forward- GGA GCC CCA GAG
 CCA AGT (SEQ ID NO: 6); Reverse- GCC AAG CAA ACT GCA TCA TCT (SEQ ID NO:
7); TaqMan- ECG AGC CCA GCG GGA GAA AAT CAX (E = 6-FAM; X= Tamra) (SEQ
ID NO: 8). rHuEPO: Forward- GTT AAT TTC TAT GCC TGG AAG AGG AT (SEQ ID
NO: 9); Reverse- CCA GGC CCT GCC AGA CTT (SEQ ID NO: 10); TaqMan- EAG GTC
GGG CAG CAG GCC GTX (E = 6-FAM; X= Tamra) (SEQ ID NO: 11). An ABI 7000 or
7900 (Applied Biosystems Inc.) was used for each analysis with the following thermal
cycling parameters; 1 cycle at 50*C for 30min; 1 cycle at 95*C for 10min; 40 cycles at 94*C
for l5sec and 60*C for 60sec. RNA samples from at least three independent cell cultures
were assayed in triplicate for both control and sodium butyrate-treated cells. The cycle
threshold (Ct) values for all genes tested were normalized to the housekeeping gene, GAPDH
(Applied Biosystems Inc., part #4310884E), to correct for error in RNA concentrations. Data
was reported as either "fold change" or "percent change" in Ct levels for sodium butyrate
treated samples as compared to control samples.
                                           Example 5
                                        MANICI siRNA
               HT1080 cells were grown in 75cm2 vented T-flasks for 4 days in 10% serum
containing DMEM media supplemented with 1X Non-Essential amino acids, and 1.5g/L
sodium bicarbonate (all from Gibco). After cells reached confluence they were washed IX
with PBS and then treated with or without 50pLL siPORTTM Amine transfection agent plus
                                              23

60p1M of silli1inhibitofy RNA (siRNA) (Ambion) in 15mL of 10% serum containing
DMEM media for a period of 48 hours. Cultures were then washed with PBS to remove
serum and switched into 15mL serum free DMEM:F12 media with or without 50L
siPORTTM Amine and 60uM siRNA. Cultures were then grown for a period of 5 days in the
presence and absence of 2mM sodium butyrate. Samples of media were collected and
rHuEPO and mRNA levels were assayed on Days 1, 3, and 5 post serum-free shift.
                                           Example 6
                              MANICI Cloning and Expression
                A pENTRTM221 entry vector containing the cDNA sequence of MANiC1
(SEQ ID NO: 1) and flanking attL recombination sites was used (Invitrogen - clone
ID:IOH42767). Following the gateway technology procedure, recombination, using LR
ClonaseTM of the entry clone two attL sites with the destination pcDNA3, 1/nV5-DESTTM
vector two dttR sites, was performed and verified by transformation of DH5a competent cells
under ampicillin selection. (The destination vector contains the ccdB gene that allows for
negative selection in the recombination reaction.) Restriction enzyme digestion of the
destination vector after recombination and transformation with BamHI confirmed the proper
recombination reaction (data not shown). A plasmid preparation of DNA (-3mg) was
obtained using the manufacturer's protocol for the Giga Prep Plasmid DNA Kit (Qiagen).
                Transfection of HT1080 cells was performed as follows: T-flasks (75cm2 )
were inoculated at 1.6 x 106 cells and allowed to grow for 4 to 5 days prior to transfection.
Either 16, 32, or 64kg of plasmid DNA was added to 2mL of DMEM:F12 media. In
addition, 59itL Lipofectamine 2000 (Invitrogen) was added to a separate 2mL of DMEM:F12
media and incubated for 5 minutes. The two mixtures of DNA and Lipofectamine were then
combined and allowed to incubate for 20 minutes at room temperature. Following a IX PBS
wash of the T-flasks, the entire mixture (~4mL) was added and allowed to incubate for 2
hours in a 37'C/12% CO 2 incubator. An additional 11 mL of fresh DMEM:F12 media was
added to each T-flask, and sampling began 24 hours later.
                                             24

                                            Example 7
               Sodium Butyrate Increases rHuEPO Specific Productivity and
                                  Blocks Cell Cycle Progression
                 The effect that sodium butyrate treatment has on the HT1080 cell cycle and
rHuEPO specific productivity was examined. Cells treated with sodium butyrate (2 mM)
increased recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) specific productivity roughly four
fold compared to control cultures (Figure 1). However, instead of sodium butyrate shifting
the cells into the GO/G1 phase, where other investigators have reported protein synthesis is
maximized (Kim et al., Biotech. Bioeng. 71: 184, 2001), the population of cells in GO/GI, S,
and G2/M-phases remained relatively constant over the entire 5 days of culture as compared
to control cultures. These differences may be due to the culturing methods as set out above,
which allowed the cells to reach confluence prior to the addition of sodium butyrate, whereas
previous reports looked at cell cycle effects on exponentially growing cells at the time of
sodium butyrate addition, Therefore, cell cycle data alone cannot be responsible for the
increases in rHuEPO specific productivity that were measured.
                                            Example 8
                       Sodium Butyrate Increases MANICI Expression
                 Recombinant HuEPO, produced in HT1080 cultures, was used as a model
glycoprotein to study the effects of sodium butyrate on genes involved in protein
glycosylation. Treatment of HT1080 cells with 2mM sodium butyrate in culture resulted in
numerous phenotypic changes with respect to sugar nucleotide pools and the oligosaccharide
 structures present on rHuEPO.
                 To determine if these phenotypic changes were associated with genetic
 changes, the expression of genes in HT1 080 cells was studied over a 24 hour period in the
presence and absence of sodium butyrate using oligonucleotide microarrays and the H-U133A
Affymetrix chip (Affymetrix).
                 A potential rate-limiting enzyme, alpha 1,2 mannosidase I enzyme
 (MAN1 C1), involved in glycoprotein N-linked oligosaccharide processing, was identified.
 The relative change in MANI Cl mRNA induced by sodium butyrate is set forth below in
                                                25

            .If6
      T" Tlsf'gerie-ihc-ensed in expression roughly 10--fold over the course of twenty-four
hours when cells were treated with sodium butyrate (Table 1). Subsequent validation of the
MAN1 Cl expression by qRT-PCR for HT1080 cells treated with sodium butyrate over a five
day period showed increases > 40-fold as compared to control cultures (Table 1).
Table 1: Sumnnary of qRT-PCR Data forHT1080 MAN1C1 nRNA Fold Change
                   Time Point (hr)A     Fold Change     Standard Deviation
                            3                 8.7                 2.1
                            6                38.7              i9.5
                           12                36.0                 4.6
                           24                53.3                14.4
                           72                42.2.                3.8
                          120                 7.8               ± 3.6
A-  Time after sodium butyrate added to culture
B - Fold change as compared to untreated HT108 0 cells
                                           Example 9
    MANICI Small Interfering RNA (siRNA) Reduces rHuEPO Specific Productivity
                To determine if a link existed between sodium butyrate's effect on increases in
MAN1C1 expression and increases in rHuEPO specific productivity, cells were treated with
small interfering RNA (siRNA) against MANICI in the presence and absence of sodium
butyrate. Treatment with siRNA had no impact on rHuEPO        Qp under control conditions, but
decreased rHuEPO    Qp  50% when cells were treated with both soditun butyrate and the
siRNA as compared to sodium butyrate alone (Figure 2A). As previously shown, sodium
butyrate treatment increases MAN1C1 mRNA levels as compared to control cultures (Figure
2B), however, cells treated with both soditun butyrate and siRNA had an -30% decrease in
MANI C mRNA levels as compared to cells treated with sodium butyrate alone (Figure 2B).
It should be noted that MAN1C 1 mRNA levels were still higher in the sodium butyrate and
                                                  26

 iRNA ti-eitsd ella   as 60ipared  to controls (Figure 2B). This correlated to a rHuEPO Qp
that remained higher than control in both cells treated with sodium butyrate alone and cells
treated with sodium butyrate and siRNA, although the absolute levels of Qp were reduced
(Figure 2A).
                To ensure that changes in specific productivity measurements were not caused
by a decrease in rHuEPO mRNA levels due to off target effects of the siRNA treatment,
rHuEPO nRNA levels were measured over the same five-day period. As shown in Figure 3,
rHuEPO nRNA levels were consistent on day 1 and day 5 in cells treated with sodium
butyrate (+/-) siRNA, and were slightly higher on day 5 as compared to control cultures. This
data confirms that the siRNA treatment for MANICI did not alter rHuEPO expression levels
by reducing rHuEPO imRNA abundance.
                                           Example 10
         Overexpression of MANICI Increases Specific Productivity of rHuEPO
                To confirm that MANiC1 could account for the increase in rHuBPO Qp,
independent from sodium butyrate treatment, cells were transfected to overexpress MANiCi
under control conditions. As seen in Table 2 (set out below), when 16-64gg of MANICi
plasmid DNA was transfected into cells, a large increase (>1000 fold) in MANIC1 mRNA
levels was measured as compared to un-transfected (control) cells.
                The transient expression of MAN1C1 under control conditions (e.g. no sodium
butyrate addition) resulted in a 2-3 fold increase in rHuEPO specific productivity depending
on the amount of plasmid DNA transfected (Figure 4). Although -the level of rHuEPO
productivity is less than when sodium butyrate alone is used, the data confirms that sodium
butyrate increases MAN1C1 expression, which in turn contributes to the increase in rHuEPO
specific productivity.
                                                 27

  Table 2: Summary of % MAN1 C1 mRNA increase after transfection as compared to
  untransfected cells.
                                          % MANI C1 mnRNA Increase (n=2)"
                          Sample             1        Day
                                                      Dcv3             a 5
                        16ug DNA        1683%         1817%          2020%
                        32ug DNA
                                       1776%         1828%           2149%
                        64ug DNA
                                       1650%         1774%           2463%
         A-   % increase was calculated by the difference in the cycle at which absolute
 quantitation occurs (Ct - cycle threshold) between cells untransfected versus transfected.
         All publications, patents and patent applications cited in this specification are herein
 incorporated by reference in their entirety, including but not limited to the material relevant
 for the reason cited, as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically
 and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Although the foregoing invention
 has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity
 of understanding, it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art In light of the
 teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto
 without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.
         Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly
 incorporated herein in their entirely by reference, which means that it should be read and
 considered by the .reader as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent
application, or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons of
conciseness.
         Reference to cited material or information contained in the text should not be
understood as a concession that the material or information was part of the common general
knowledge or was known in Australia or any other country.
        Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
group of integers.
                                                28

      WO 20071067564                                                         PCT/US2006/046443
                                            CLAIMS
        We claim:
         1.     A host cell engineered to overexpress (a) alpha 1,2 mannosidase (MANiC1)
native to the host cell and (b) a glycoprotein of interest.
        2.      The host cell of claim 1 wherein said host cell has been transfected with a
vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding MANI Cl operably linked to a heterologous
expression control sequence.
        3.      The host cell of claim 1 wherein said host cell comprises a heterologous
expression control sequence operably linked to a nucleic acid encoding MANIC1.
        4.      The host cell of any of claims 1-3 wherein said host cell has been transfected
with a vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding said glycoprotein of interest operably linked
to a heterologous expression control sequence.
        5.      The host cell of any of claims 1-3 wherein said host cell comprises a
heterologous expression control sequence operably linked to a nucleic acid encoding said
glycoprotein of interest.
        6.      The host cell any of claims 1-5 wherein the glycoprotein of interest is an
erythropoiesis-stimulating molecule.
         7.     The host cell of claim 6 wherein the glycoprotein of interest is erythropoietin
of SEQ ID NO: 3.
                                                  29

    WO 20071067564                                                          PCT/US2006/046443
          8.      The hosf cell of claim 6 wherein the glycoprotein of interest is darbepoetin of
 SEQ lID NO: 5.
          9.      The host cell of any of claims 1-8 which is a mammalian cell.
          10.    The host cell of any of claims 1-8 which is a CHO cell.
          11.    The host cell of any of claims 1-8 which is a human cell.
          12.    The host cell of any of claims 1-8 which is a BHK cell.
         13.     The host cell of any of claims 1-8 which is an NS/0 cell.
         14.     The host cell of any of claims 1-8 which is an HT-1080 cell.
         15.     A method of producing a glycoprotein of interest comprising the steps of:
         culturing the host cell of any of claims 1-14 in culture medium; and recovering the
glycoprotein of interest from the host cell or culture medium.
         16.     The method of claim 15 wherein said host is cultured under conditions that
induce increased MANI C1 expression.
         17.     The method of claim 15 wherein said host cell expresses MLAN1C1 protein at
a level that increases specific productivity (pg/cell/day) of glycoprotein of interest produced.
                                                30

     WO 20071067564                                                             PCT/US2006/046443
         T8~."    Thi iiiethod.5f claim 17 wherein at least a 2-fold increase in specific
productivity is achieved by overexpression of MANICI.
         19.      A method of increasing production of a glycoprotein of interest comprising the
steps of:
         culturing the host cell of any of claims 1-14 in culture medium under conditions that
permit expression of MANI Cl at levels that improve production of the glycoprotein of
interest; and recovering the glycoprotein of interest from the host cell or culture medium.
         20.      The method of claim 15 comprising the step of further adding an inducer of
protein production to the culture medium.
         21.      A method of screening for an inducer of protein production comprising the
steps of:
         (a) contacting a host cell with a candidate compound,
         (b) detennining expression level of MANIC1, and
         (c) identifying said candidate compound as an inducer of protein production if the
expression level of MAN1 C1 increases.
         22.       The method of claim 21 wherein MANI C1 mRNA expression level is
               determined.
         23.       The method of claim 21 wherein MANIC1 protein expression level is
               determined.
                                                 31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
