C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054677 _.docx-25/052018
ABSTRACT
                The invention provides compositions and methods for manufacturing adoptive cell
therapies. In particular embodiments, the invention provides methods of harvesting
populations of cells, isolating and activating PBMCs, expanding T cells, and administering
the T cell therapeutic to a subject in need thereof.

                                                -1
                      IMPROVED METHODS FOR MANUFACTURING
                                 ADOPTIVE CELL THERAPIES
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2015249376, the entire contents
of which are incorporated herein by reference.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/984,558, filed April 25, 2014, which is incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety.
STATEMENT REGARDING SEQUENCE LISTING
         The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of
a paper copy, and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text
file containing the Sequence Listing is BLBD_028_01WOST25.txt. The text file is 3 KB, was
created on April 24, 2015, and is being submitted electronically via EFS-Web, concurrent with
the filing of the specification.
BACKGROUND
TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present invention relates to improved platforms and associated methods for
manufacturing immune effector cells. More particularly, the invention relates to scalable,
flexible, reliable, and reproducible methods for manufacturing therapeutic immune effector cell
compositions comprising T cells.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART
         Adoptive immunotherapy or adoptive cellular therapy (ACT) is the transfer of gene
modified T lymphocytes to a subject for the therapy of disease. Adoptive immunotherapy has yet

                                                   -2
to realize its potential for treating a wide variety of diseases including cancer, infectious disease,
autoimmune disease, inflammatory disease, and immunodeficiency. However, most, if not all
adoptive immunotherapy strategies require T cell activation and expansion steps to generate a
clinically effective, therapeutic dose of T cells. Due to the inherent complexity of live cell culture
and patient to patient variability, current technologies for generating therapeutic doses of T cells,
including engineered T cells, remain limited by cumbersome T cell manufacturing processes.
Existing T cell manufacturing processes are not easily scalable, repeatable, reliable, or efficient
and often produce an inferior T cell product that may be prone to exhaustion and loss of effector
immune cell function.
         To date, engineered T cell adoptive immunotherapies have met with only limited success
and routinely show variable clinical activity. Therefore, such therapies are not suitable for
widespread clinical use.
BRIEF SUMMARY
         The invention generally provides methods for adoptive cellular therapy.
         In various embodiments, a method for manufacturing a T cell therapeutic is provided
comprising: obtaining a population of cells that comprises T cells and antigen presenting cells
(APCs); culturing the population of cells in a cell culture medium comprising i) one or more
cytokines, ii) an anti-CD3 antibody or CD3-binding fragment thereof, and iii) an anti-CD28
antibody or a CD28-binding fragment thereof, B7-1 or a CD28-binding fragment thereof, or B7-2
or a CD28-binding fragment thereof, wherein the culture activates and stimulates the T cells;
transducing the population of activated cells with a viral vector; and culturing the population of
cells in a cell growth medium to expand the transduced T cells; thereby manufacturing the T cell
therapeutic.
         In particular embodiments, the population of cells is obtained from peripheral blood,
peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph nodes tissue, cord blood, thymus issue,
tissue from a site of infection, ascites, pleural effusion, spleen tissue, or tumors.
         In certain embodiments, the T cells are obtained from peripheral blood, peripheral blood
mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph nodes tissue, cord blood, thymus issue, tissue from a site
of infection, ascites, pleural effusion, spleen tissue, tumors, or a T cell line.

                                                   -3
         In additional embodiments, the APCs are obtained from peripheral blood, peripheral
blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph nodes tissue, cord blood, thymus issue, tissue
from a site of infection, ascites, pleural effusion, spleen tissue, or tumors.
         In some embodiments, the population of cells comprises peripheral blood mononuclear
cells (PBMCs).
         In further embodiments, harvesting or obtaining the population of cells comprises
leukapheresis.
         In particular embodiments, isolating the population of cells comprises sedimentation.
         In additional embodiments, the sedimentation comprises a FICOLLTM or a PERCOLLTM
gradient.
         In certain embodiments, the sedimentation is performed using a semiautomated
flowthrough centrifuge.
         In additional embodiments, the semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge is a Cobe 2991
cell processor, a Cell Saver 5+, or a Teruma Elutra.
         In particular embodiments, the methods further comprise washing the population of cells
in a buffer or cell culture medium.
         In some embodiments, the population of cells are washed in T cell growth medium
(TCGM) containing one or more cytokines.
         In some embodiments, the one or more cytokines in the TCGM are selected from the
group consisting of: IL-2, IL7, IL-15, IL-9, and IL-21.
         In particular embodiments, the cytokine is IL-2.
         In certain embodiments, the concentration of IL-2 is about 250 IU/mL.
         In certain embodiments, the concentration of IL-2 is about from 100 IU/mL to about 300
IU/mL.
         In some embodiments, the isolated population of cells comprises PBMCs.
         In additional embodiments, the population of cells is cryopreserved in a controlled rate
freezer.
         In further embodiments, the cryopreserved population of cells is thawed.
         In further embodiments, the population of cells is seeded for culturing in step (b) in
TCGM at a density of about 1 x 108 cells/mL.

                                                -4
         In further embodiments, the population of cells is seeded for culturing in step (b) in
TCGM at a density of about 1 x 107 cells/mL.
         In further embodiments, the population of cells is seeded for culturing in step (b) in
TCGM at a density of about 1 x 106 cells/mL.
         In further embodiments, about 1 x 108 cells are seeded for culturing in step (b) in TCGM
at a density of about 1 x 106 cells/mL.
         In particular embodiments, the population of cells is cultured in a cell culture bag or a
bioreactor.
         In certain embodiments, the TCGM comprises one or more cytokines selected from the
group consisting of: IL-2, IL7, IL-15, IL-9, and IL-2 1.
         In further embodiments, the one or more cytokines are selected from the group consisting
of: IL-2, IL-7, and IL-15.
         In additional embodiments, the one or more cytokines comprise IL-2.
         In additional embodiments, the concentration of the one or more cytokines is about 250
IU/mL.
         In additional embodiments, the concentration of the one or more cytokines is about from
25 IU/mL to about 500 IU/mL
         In further embodiments, the population of cells is cultured with a soluble anti-CD3
antibody and a soluble anti-CD28 antibody.
         In certain embodiments, the concentration of the anti-CD3 antibody is about 50 ng/mL.
         In particular embodiments, the concentration of the anti-CD28 antibody is about 50
ng/mL.
         In particular embodiments, the population of cells of step b) is cultured for about 12 hours
to about 48 hours prior to transduction.
         In further embodiments, the population of cells of step b) is cultured for about 16 hours to
about 32 hours prior to transduction.
         In additional embodiments, the population of cells of step b) is cultured for at least 18
hours prior to transduction.
         In further embodiments, the population of cells of step b) is cultured for at least 24 hours
prior to transduction.

                                                -5
         In certain embodiments, the population of cells of step d) is transduced with a retroviral
vector.
         In certain embodiments, the population of cells of step d) is transduced with a lentiviral
vector.
         In further embodiments, about 1 x 109 TU to about 2 x 109 TU of viral vector are used to
transduce the 1 x 108 seeded cells.
         In further embodiments, about 1 x 109 TU to about 4 x 109 TU of viral vector are used to
transduce the 1 x 108 seeded cells.
         In particular embodiments, the viral vector is diluted to 20% v/v of the total culture
volume.
         In particular embodiments, the viral vector is diluted to about 20% to about 40% v/v of
the total culture volume.
         In additional embodiments, the population of cells is transduced for about 18 to about 48
hours.
         In further embodiments, the population of cells is transduced for about 18 to about 36
hours.
         In further embodiments, the population of cells is transduced for about 24 hours.
         In additional embodiments, the viral vector comprises a polynucleotide encoding a
chimeric antigen receptor.
         In certain embodiments, the CAR comprises: an extracellular domain that binds an
antigen selected from the group consisting of: alpha folate receptor, 5T4, up integrin, BCMA,
B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70,
CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family including ErbB2
(HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2,
GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA
A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-I Ra, IL-13Ra2, Lambda,
Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME,
PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, and VEGFR2; a transmembrane domain
derived from a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of: CD8pCD4, CD28, CD45 ,
PD1, and CD152; one or more intracellular co-stimulatory signaling domains selected from the

                                                -6
group consisting of: CD28, CD54 (ICAM), CD134 (OX40), CD137 (41BB), CD152 (CTLA4),
CD273 (PD-L2), CD274 (PD-Li), and CD278 (ICOS); and a CD3@ignaling domain.
        In particular embodiments, the extracellular domain comprises an antibody or antigen
binding fragment that binds the antigen.
        In further embodiments, the transmembrane domain is derived from CD80or CD 28.
        In certain embodiments, the one or more co-stimulatory signaling domains selected from
the group consisting of: CD28, CD134, and CD137.
        In further embodiments, comprising a hinge region polypeptide.
        In additional embodiments, the hinge region polypeptide comprises a hinge region of
IgGI or CD8a
        In particular embodiments, the CAR further comprises a signal peptide.
        In particular embodiments, the signal peptide comprises an IgG 1 heavy chain signal
polypeptide, a CD8csignal polypeptide, or a human GM-CSF receptor alpha signal polypeptide.
        In additional embodiments, the population of cells in step d) is cultured for expansion for
about 5 to about 8 days.
        In certain embodiments, the population of cells in step d) is cultured for expansion for
about 5 days to about 8 days in a cell culture bag.
        In further embodiments, the population of cells in step d) is cultured for expansion for
about 5 days in a cell culture bag and then cultured for about 3 days in a bioreactor.
        In additional embodiments, the population of cells in step d) is cultured for expansion for
about 5 days to about 8 days in a bioreactor.
        In further embodiments, the bioreactor is a WAVE bioreactor or a GREX bioreactor.
        In particular embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 50 fold during the
culture of step d).
        In certain embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 100 fold during the
culture of step d).
        In particular embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 200 fold during the
culture of step d).
        In further embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 300 fold during the
culture of step d).

                                                -7
        In additional embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 400 fold during the
culture of step d).
        In additional embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 500 fold during the
culture of step d).
        In further embodiments, the number of T cells is expanded at least 600 fold during the
culture of step d).
        In certain embodiments, the method further comprises recovering the manufactured T cell
therapeutic.
        In certain embodiments, recovering the T cell therapeutic comprises concentrating and
washing the cells expanded in step d).
        In particular embodiments, the T cell therapeutic is concentrated and washed using a
semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge.
        In further embodiments, the semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge is a Cell Saver 5+ or
LOVO.
        In particular embodiments, the method further comprises cryopreserving the T cell
therapeutic.
        In additional embodiments, the cryopreserved T cells are thawed for use in a method of
adoptive cell therapy.
        In various embodiments, a composition comprising the manufactured T cells of any one
of the preceding embodiments described supra and elsewhere herein and a physiologically
acceptable excipient is provided.
        In various other embodiments, a method of treating a malignancy in a subject in need
thereof, comprising administering to the subject the T cell therapeutic of any one of the preceding
embodiments described supra and elsewhere herein is provided.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
        Figure 1 shows transduction efficiency and VCN of transduced cells transduced at
different times during the T cell manufacturing process. Cells were transduced with a GFP
expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/106 PBMCs at DO, D1, and D2. FACS analysis of GFP

                                                  -8
expressing cells expressing CD3, CD8, or CD4 determined that transduction efficiency and VCN
were highest in cells transduced 20 to 24 hours (D1) after activation.
         Figure 2 shows the transduction efficiency of cells activated using different methods.
PBMCs were activated using (i) plate bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies; (ii) soluble
anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies; and (iii) bead bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies.
Activated cells were transduced with an anti-CD 19 CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108
TU/106 PBMCs. Transduction efficiency and VCN was higher in GFP expressing the T cell
markers CD3, CD8, or CD4 that were activated with soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies
compared to other methods.
         Figure 3 shows that activation and transduction in cell culture bags was comparable to
transduction in flasks. PBMCs were activated at DO using soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies at a concentration of 50 ng/mL. Activated cells were transduced with a kappaLC
expressing lentivirus at 3 x 108 TU/106 PBMCs at D1. Transduction efficiency was comparable
when the cells were activated and transduced in either cell culture bags or flasks. VCN was
slightly higher in cells that were activated and transduced in cell culture bags.
         Figure 4 shows T cell expansion among PBMCs activated by different methods was
comparable. PBMCs were activated using (i) plate bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies;
and (ii) soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies; or purified lymphocytes were activated (iii)
bead bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. PBMCs and lymphocytes were from the same
source. Activated cells were transduced with an anti-CD 19 CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x
108 TU/106 PBMCs. Cell expansion among PBMCs activated by the three methods was
comparable throughout the ten day expansion culture period.
         Figure 5 shows PBMCs from multiple donors showed comparable and robust expansion.
PBMCs were activated using soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. Activated cells were
transduced with an anti-CD19 CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/106 PBMCs.
Activated and transduced cells from multiple donors cultured for 10 days showed comparable
growth rates among each other and untransduced control (UTD). The number of lymphocytes
present at day 10 in each expanded culture is also shown.
         Figure 6 is a representative FACS analysis that shows anti-CD19 CAR expression was
comparable among the cell products generated from different patients, with an average of about

                                                -9
61% marking and a range of 29% to 80% (n=5). qPCR also demonstrated that the VCN among
the cell products was comparable among the cell products generated from different patients.
         Figure 7 shows that antigen specific tumor clearance by T cells activated using soluble
antibodies was as good as, or better than T cells activated using other methods. PBMCs were
activated using (i) plate bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies; (ii) soluble anti-CD3 and
anti-CD28 antibodies; and (iii) bead bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. Activated cells
were transduced with an anti-CD19 CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/106 PBMCs.
Expanded anti-CD 19 CAR T cells were co-cultured with CD 19 expressing Daudi cells or non
CD19 expressing K562 cells. Anti-CD19 CAR T cells activated using soluble antibodies killed
Daudi cells in an antigen specific manner, but not K562 cells as well as, or better than, anti-CD 19
CAR T cells activated by the other methods.
         Figure 8 shows a representative experiment of antigen specific tumor clearance by CAR
T cells manufactured using the methods contemplated herein. PBMCs were activated using
soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies were transduced with an anti-CD19 CAR expressing
lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/10 6 PBMCs. Anti-CD19 CAR T cells killed CD19 expressing Daudi
cells but not non-CD19 expressing K562 cells.
         Figure 9 shows a flowchart comparison of the small-scale research T cell manufacturing
platform and the scaled up clinical cGMP drug manufacturing platform. The small-scale process
allowed for higher throughput evaluation of CART constructs with assurance that data would be
comparable for large scale cGMP manufacturing platform.
         Figure 10 shows a flowchart of the T cell manufacturing platform using fresh PBMCs,
cell culture bags, and optionally a WAVE bioreactor.
         Figure 11 shows a flowchart of the T cell manufacturing platform using frozen PBMCs,
cell culture bags, and optionally a WAVE bioreactor.
         Figure 12 shows a flowchart of the T cell manufacturing platform using fresh PBMCs,
and a GREX bioreactor.
         Figure 13 shows a representative experiment comparing the phenotypes of final
manufactured CAR T cell products from small-scale and large-scale manufacturing methods.
FACS analysis for expression of CD4, CD8, CAR T construct, CD56, and CD62L cell surface

                                                - 10
markers did not identify any significant differences in phenotype of the final CAR T products
between platforms. p;0.20 for all surface markers between the two plat forms. (n=3).
         Figure 14 shows the cellular composition of PBMCs from 18 donors from using a
FICOLLTM isolation and washing performed on the Cell Saver® 5+ Autologous Blood Recovery
System (Haemonetics).     The resulting cell populations were characterized by FACS for CD45+
cells, T cells, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, B cells, NK cells, and monocytes and dendritic cells.
The cell profiles were consistent among the 18 donors.
         Figure 15 shows that CAR T cells manufacturing using different methods produced
compared final cell products. CAR T cells were manufactured using small-scale (T25 flask) and
large-scale (GREX100, static cell culture bags, and WAVE bioreactor) devices. The cell growth
rates and expanded cell numbers over a 10 day culture period were comparable among the
methods. (A). FACS analysis showed that the amount of CD3 cells was consistent between the
manufacturing methods. (B). qPCR showed that the VCN of the CD3 cells was comparable
among the various manufacturing methods tested.
         Figure 16 shows a cartoon map of multiple lentiviral CAR constructs. Constructs varied
in regards to promoter, scFV, +/- linker, hinge, transmembrane regions and signaling domains.
         Figure 17 shows various CAR T cell products showed (A) comparable growth rates; (B)
VCN; and (C) cell surface expression of the different CAR constructs.
         Figure 18 shows antigen specific tumor clearance using expressing CAR T cells. (A).
Anti-BCMA expressing CAR T cells killed BCMA expressing tumor cells labeled with
carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE); fluorescence was measured by FACS. (B). Anti
BCMA expressing CAR T cells were co-cultured with K562 cells and K562 cells genetically
modified to express BCMA and supernatants were collected 24 hours later and assayed for IFN-y
release via ELISA. (n=3).
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A.       OVERVIEW
         Existing methods for manufacturing adoptive cell therapies are cumbersome and
expensive and have presented a formidable barrier to the use of ACT as a widespread treatment in

                                                  - 11
the clinic. The compositions and methods offer a solution to these and other problems related to
manufacturing cell-based therapeutics. The invention generally relates to improved methods for
manufacturing T cell therapeutics. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory, the
inventive methods contemplated herein result in a reproducible, reliable, and robust ACT
manufacturing platform, compared to existing T cell compositions in the art.
         In various embodiments, methods for manufacturing adoptive cellular therapies, immune
effector cell compositions or therapeutics, methods for expanding immune effector cells, and
immune effector cell manufacturing platforms are provided. In particular preferred
embodiments, an engineered TCR or CAR immune effector cell composition is manufactured by
the methods contemplated herein, which may further increase the efficacy of an immune effector
cell adoptive cellular therapy. Manufactured cell compositions contemplated herein are useful in
the treatment or prevention of numerous conditions including, but not limited to cancer,
infectious disease, autoimmune disease, inflammatory disease, and immunodeficiency.
         In various embodiments, a method for manufacturing a therapeutic composition
comprising immune effector cells involves obtaining a population of cells comprising immune
effector cells, activating the population of cells, and culturing the population of cells to expand
immune effector cells. In particular embodiments, the immune effector cells comprise T cells,
and optionally NK cells and/or NKT cells.
         In various embodiments, immune effector cells are manufactured in cell culture bags
and/or bioreactors.
         In other various embodiments, immune effector cells are manufactured in bioreactors.
         In one embodiment, a method for manufacturing a therapeutic composition comprising T
cells comprises harvesting cells from a subject and isolating a population of cells using a closed
system process. In particular embodiments, cells may be isolated from any suitable fresh or
frozen sources. In certain embodiments, the isolated population of cells comprises peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The isolated population of cells is seeded to initiate cultures
and T cells are activated and stimulated by contacting the cells with primary and costimulatory
ligands. In particular embodiments, populations of cells comprising activated T cells are
transduced with a viral vector in order to redirect the transduced cells to a particular target
antigen. In certain embodiments, the cells are transduced with a viral vector encoding a CAR or

                                                 - 12
engineered TCR. Transduced cells or non-transduced cells may then be cultured in growth
medium to expand immune effector cells, e.g., T cells. Manufactured immune effector cell
compositions may then be used to treat subjects in need thereof or frozen for later use.
         Adoptive cellular therapies manufactured using the methods contemplated herein are
effective in producing cellular drug products with reproducible levels of expansion, cellular
profiles, VCN, and that are effective in mediating antigen-specific tumor clearance. The methods
offer reduced patient-to-patient variability in producing adoptive cellular therapies and are
reproducible, reliable, scalable, and transferrable to cGMP manufacturing processes.
Accordingly, the methods and compositions contemplated herein represent a quantum
improvement compared to existing adoptive cell immunotherapies.
         The practice of the invention will employ, unless indicated specifically to the contrary,
conventional methods of chemistry, biochemistry, organic chemistry, molecular biology,
microbiology, recombinant DNA techniques, genetics, immunology, and cell biology that are
within the skill of the art, many of which are described below for the purpose of illustration.
Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See, e.g., Sambrook, et al., Molecular
Cloning:A LaboratoryManual (3rd Edition, 2001); Sambrook, et al., Molecular Cloning: A
LaboratoryManual (2nd Edition, 1989); Maniatis et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
Manual (1982); Ausubel et al., CurrentProtocolsin MolecularBiology (John Wiley and Sons,
updated July 2008); Short Protocolsin MolecularBiology: A Compendium ofMethodsfrom
CurrentProtocolsin Molecular Biology, Greene Pub. Associates and Wiley-Interscience;
Glover, DNA Cloning:A PracticalApproach, vol. I & II (IRL Press, Oxford, 1985); Anand,
Techniquesfor the Analysis of Complex Genomes, (Academic Press, New York, 1992);
Transcriptionand Translation(B. Hames & S. Higgins, Eds., 1984); Perbal, A PracticalGuide
to Molecular Cloning (1984); Harlow and Lane, Antibodies, (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1998) CurrentProtocolsin Immunology           Q. E. Coligan, A. M.
Kruisbeek, D. H. Margulies, E. M. Shevach and W. Strober, eds., 1991); Annual Review of
Immunology; as well as monographs in journals such as Advances in Immunology.
         All publications, patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety.

                                                   - 13
B.       DEFINITIONS
         Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention
belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can
be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, preferred embodiments of
compositions, methods and materials are described herein. For the purposes of the present
invention, the following terms are defined below.
         The articles "a," "an," and "the" are used herein to refer to one or to more than one (i.e.,
to at least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "an element" means
one element or more than one element.
         As used herein, the term "about" or "approximately" refers to a quantity, level, value,
number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or length that varies by as much
as 30, 25, 20, 25, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 or 1 % to a reference quantity, level, value, number,
frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or length. In particular embodiments, the
terms "about" or "approximately" when preceding a numerical value indicates the value plus or
minus a range of 15%, 10%,5       %,  or 1%.
         As used herein, the term "substantially" refers to a quantity, level, value, number,
frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or length that is 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or higher of a reference quantity, level, value,
number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or length. In one embodiment,
"substantially the same" refers to a quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage,
dimension, size, amount, weight or length that produces an effect, e.g., a physiological effect, that
is approximately the same as a reference quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage,
dimension, size, amount, weight or length.
         Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words
''comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element or
group of steps or elements. By "consisting of' is meant including, and limited to, whatever
follows the phrase "consisting of." Thus, the phrase "consisting of' indicates that the listed
elements are required or mandatory, and that no other elements may be present. By "consisting

                                                 - 14
essentially of' is meant including any elements listed after the phrase, and limited to other
elements that do not interfere with or contribute to the activity or action specified in the disclosure
for the listed elements. Thus, the phrase "consisting essentially of' indicates that the listed
elements are required or mandatory, but that no other elements are optional and may or may not
be present depending upon whether or not they affect the activity or action of the listed elements
         Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment," "an embodiment," "a
particular embodiment," "a related embodiment," "a certain embodiment," "an additional
embodiment," or "a further embodiment" or combinations thereof means that a particular feature,
structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one
embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of the foregoing phrases in various
places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
         As used herein, the terms "T cell manufacturing" or "methods of manufacturing T cells or
comparable terms refer to the process of producing a therapeutic composition of T cells, which
manufacturing methods may comprise one or more of, or all of the following steps performed one
or more times on a population of cells comprising T cells or a population of purified T cells:
harvesting, isolating, washing, stimulating, activating, modifying, expanding, cryopreserving, and
thawing, or any suitable combination thereof
         The terms "T cell" or "T lymphocyte" are art-recognized and are intended to include
thymocytes, naive T lymphocytes, immature T lymphocytes, mature T lymphocytes, resting T
lymphocytes, or activated T lymphocytes. Illustrative populations of T cells suitable for use in
particular embodiments include but are not limited to helper T cells (HTL; CD4+ T cell), a
cytotoxic T cell (CTL; CD8+ T cell), CD4+CD8+ T cell, CD4 CD8 T cell, or any other subset of
T cells. Other illustrative populations of T cells suitable for use in particular embodiments
include but are not limited to T cells expressing one or more of the following markers: CD3,
CD4, CD8, CD27, CD28, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD62L, CD 127, CD 197, and HLA-DR and if
desired, can be further isolated by positive or negative selection techniques.
         A peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) is defined as any blood cell with a round
nucleus (i.e., a lymphocyte, a monocyte, or a macrophage). These blood cells are a critical

                                                  - 15
component in the immune system to fight infection and adapt to intruders. The lymphocyte
population consists of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, B cells and Natural Killer cells, CD 14+
monocytes, and basophils/ neutrophils/eosinophils/dendritic cells. These cells are often separated
from whole blood or from leukopacks using FICOLL TM , a hydrophilic polysaccharide that
separates layers of blood, with monocytes and lymphocytes forming a buffy coat under a layer of
plasma. In one embodiment, "PBMCs" refers to a population of cells comprising at least T cells,
and optionally NK cells, and antigen presenting cells.
         "Antigen-presenting cells" refer to a heterogeneous group of immunocompetent cells that
mediate the cellular immune response by processing and presenting antigens to the T-cells.
Antigen-presenting cells include, but are not limited to macrophages, dendritic cells, langerhans
cells, B-lymphocytes, platelets and artificial antigen presenting cells (aAPC).
         aAPCs may be made by engineering K562, U937, 721.221, T2, and CIR cells to direct
the stable expression and secretion, of a variety of costimulatory molecules and cytokines. In a
particular embodiment, K32 or U32 aAPCs are used to direct the display of one or more
antibody-based stimulatory molecules on the AAPC cell surface. Populations of T cells can be
expanded by aAPCs expressing a variety of costimulatory molecules including, but not limited to,
CD137L (4-1BBL), CD134L (OX40L), and/or CD80 or CD86. Finally, the aAPCs provide an
efficient platform to expand genetically modified T cells and to maintain CD28 expression on
CD8 T cells. aAPCs provided in WO 03/057171 and US2003/0147869 are hereby incorporated
by reference in their entirety.
         As used herein, the term "proliferation" refers to an increase in cell division, either
symmetric or asymmetric division of cells. In particular embodiments, "proliferation" refers to
the symmetric or asymmetric division of T cells. "Increased proliferation" occurs when there is
an increase in the number of cells in a treated sample compared to cells in a non-treated sample.
         An "immune effector cell," is any cell of the immune system that has one or more
effector functions (e.g., cytotoxic cell killing activity, secretion of cytokines, induction of ADCC
and/or CDC). The illustrative immune effector cells contemplated herein are T lymphocytes, in
particular cytotoxic T cells (CTLs; CD8+ T cells) and helper T cells (HTLs; CD4+ T cells). As
would be understood by the skilled person, other cells may also be used as immune effector cells
with the CARs as described herein. In particular, immune effector cells also include NK

                                                  - 16
cells, NKT cells, neutrophils, and macrophages. In particular embodiments, T cells and one or
more other cell types such as NK cells, NKT cells, neutrophils, and/or macrophages are
genetically modified and expanding using the manufacturing methods contemplated herein.
         "Modified T cells" refer to T cells that have been modified by the introduction of a
polynucleotide encoding an engineered TCR or CAR contemplated herein. Modified T cells
include both genetic and non-genetic modifications (e.g., episomal or extrachromosomal).
         As used herein, the term "genetically engineered" or "genetically modified" refers to the
addition of extra genetic material in the form of DNA or RNA into the total genetic material in a
cell.
         The terms, "genetically modified cells," "modified cells," and, "redirected cells," are used
interchangeably.
         As used herein, the term "gene therapy" refers to the introduction of extra genetic
material in the form of DNA or RNA into the total genetic material in a cell that restores,
corrects, or modifies expression of a gene, or for the purpose of expressing a therapeutic
polypeptide, e.g., a TCR or CAR and/or one or more cytokines. In particular embodiments, T
cells are modified to express an engineered TCR or CAR without modifying the genome of the
cells, e.g., by introducing an episomal vector that expresses the TCR or CAR into the cell.
         The term "ex vivo" refers generally to activities that take place outside an organism, such
as experimentation or measurements done in or on living tissue in an artificial environment
outside the organism, preferably with minimum alteration of the natural conditions. In particular
embodiments, "ex vivo" procedures involve living cells or tissues taken from an organism and
cultured or modulated in a laboratory apparatus, usually under sterile conditions, and typically for
a few hours or up to about 24 hours, but including up to 48 or 72 hours, depending on the
circumstances. In certain embodiments, such tissues or cells can be collected and frozen, and
later thawed for ex vivo treatment. Tissue culture experiments or procedures lasting longer than a
few days using living cells or tissue are typically considered to be "in vitro," though in certain
embodiments, this term can be used interchangeably with ex vivo.
         The term "in vivo" refers generally to activities that take place inside an organism, such as
cell self-renewal and expansion of cells. In one embodiment, the term "in vivo expansion" refers
to the ability of a cell population to increase in number in vivo.

                                                 - 17
         The term "stimulation" refers to a primary response induced by binding of a stimulatory
molecule (e.g., a TCR/CD3 complex) with its cognate ligand thereby mediating a signal
transduction event including, but not limited to, signal transduction via the TCR/CD3 complex.
         A "stimulatory molecule," refers to a molecule on a T cell that specifically binds with a
cognate stimulatory ligand.
         A "stimulatory ligand," as used herein, means a ligand that when present on an antigen
presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, a dendritic cell, a B-cell, and the like) can specifically bind with a
cognate binding partner (referred to herein as a "stimulatory molecule") on a T cell, thereby
mediating a primary response by the T cell, including, but not limited to, activation, initiation of
an immune response, proliferation, and the like. Stimulatory ligands include, but are not limited
to CD3 ligands or binding agents, e.g., an anti-CD3 antibody and CD2 ligands or binding agents,
e.g., anti-CD2 antibody.
         The term, "activation" refers to the state of a T cell that has been sufficiently stimulated to
induce detectable cellular proliferation. In particular embodiments, activation can also be
associated with induced cytokine production, and detectable effector functions. The term
"activated T cells" refers to, among other things, T cells that are proliferating. Signals generated
through the TCR alone are insufficient for full activation of the T cell and one or more secondary
or costimulatory signals are also required. Thus, T cell activation comprises a primary
stimulation signal through the TCR/CD3 complex and one or more secondary costimulatory
signals. Costimulation can be evidenced by proliferation and/or cytokine production by T cells
that have received a primary activation signal, such as stimulation through the CD3/TCR
complex or through CD2.
         A "costimulatory signal," refers to a signal, which in combination with a primary signal,
such as TCR/CD3 ligation, leads to T cell proliferation, cytokine production, and/or upregulation
or downregulation of particular molecules.
         A "costimulatory ligand," refers to a molecule that binds a costimulatory molecule. A
costimulatory ligand may be soluble or provided on a surface. A co-stimulatory ligand can
include, but is not limited to, CD7, B7-1 (CD80), B7-2 (CD86), PD-Li, PD-L2, 4-1BBL,
OX40L, inducible costimulatory ligand (ICOS-L), intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM),
CD30L, CD40, CD70, CD83, HLA-G, MICA, MICB, HVEM, lymphotoxin beta receptor,

                                                  - 18
3/TR6, ILT3, ILT4, HVEM, an agonist or antibody that binds Toll ligand receptor and a ligand
that specifically binds with B7-H3. A co-stimulatory ligand also encompasses, inter alia, an
antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory
molecule present on a T cell, such as, but not limited to, CD27, CD28, 4-1BB, OX40, CD30,
CD40, PD-1, ICOS, lymphocyte function-associated antigen-i (LFA-1), CD2, CD7, LIGHT,
NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand that specifically binds with CD83.
         A "costimulatory molecule" refers to the cognate binding partner on a T cell, e.g., CD28
that specifically binds with a costimulatory ligand, thereby mediating a co-stimulatory response
by the T cell, including, but not limited to, proliferation.
         "Autologous," as used herein, refers to cells from the same subject.
         "Allogeneic," as used herein, refers to cells of the same species that differ genetically to
the cell in comparison.
         "Syngeneic," as used herein, refers to cells of a different subject that are genetically
identical to the cell in comparison.
         "Xenogeneic," as used herein, refers to cells of a different species to the cell in
comparison.
         As used herein, the terms "individual" and "subject" are often used interchangeably and
refer to any animal that exhibits a symptom of a cancer, infectious disease, immunodeficiency,
inflammatory disease, or auto-immune disorder that can be treated with the gene therapy vectors,
cell-based therapeutics, and methods disclosed elsewhere herein. Suitable subjects (e.g., patients)
include laboratory animals (such as mouse, rat, rabbit, or guinea pig), farm animals, and domestic
animals or pets (such as a cat or dog). Non-human primates and, preferably, humans, are
included. Typical subjects include humans that have a cancer, infectious disease,
immunodeficiency, inflammatory disease, or auto-immune disorder, that have been diagnosed
with a cancer, infectious disease, immunodeficiency, inflammatory disease, or auto-immune
disorder, or that are at risk or having a cancer, infectious disease, immunodeficiency,
inflammatory disease, or auto-immune disorder.
         As used herein, the term "patient" refers to a subject that has been diagnosed with a
particular indication that can be treated with the gene therapy vectors, cell-based therapeutics, and
methods disclosed elsewhere herein.

                                                   - 19
         As used herein "treatment" or "treating," includes any beneficial or desirable effect on the
symptoms or pathology of a disease or pathological condition, and may include even minimal
reductions in one or more measurable markers of the disease or condition being treated, e.g.,
cancer. Treatment can involve optionally either amelioration of, or complete reduction of, one or
more symptoms of the disease or condition, or the delaying of the progression of the disease or
condition. "Treatment" does not necessarily indicate complete eradication or cure of the disease
or condition, or associated symptoms thereof.
         As used herein, "prevent," and similar words such as "prevented," "preventing" etc.,
indicate an approach for preventing, inhibiting, or reducing the likelihood of the occurrence or
recurrence of, a disease or condition, e.g., cancer. It also refers to delaying the onset or
recurrence of a disease or condition or delaying the occurrence or recurrence of the symptoms of
a disease or condition. As used herein, "prevention" and similar words also includes reducing the
intensity, effect, symptoms and/or burden of a disease or condition prior to onset or recurrence of
the disease or condition.
         As used herein, the term "amount" refers to "an amount effective" or "an effective
amount" of a genetically modified therapeutic cell, e.g., T cell, to achieve a beneficial or desired
prophylactic or therapeutic result, including clinical results.
         A "prophylactically effective amount" refers to an amount of a genetically modified
therapeutic cell effective to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically but not necessarily,
since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease, the
prophylactically effective amount is less than the therapeutically effective amount.
         A "therapeutically effective amount" of a genetically modified therapeutic cell may vary
according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, and weight of the individual, and the
ability of the T cells to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective
amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the virus or transduced therapeutic
cells are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. The term "therapeutically effective
amount" includes an amount that is effective to "treat" a subject (e.g., a patient). When a
therapeutic amount is indicated, the precise amount of the compositions of the present invention
to be administered can be determined by a physician with consideration of individual differences
in age, weight, tumor size, extent of infection or metastasis, and condition of the patient (subject).

                                                  - 20
         As used herein, the term "cancer" relates generally to a class of diseases or conditions in
which abnormal cells divide without control and can invade nearby tissues.
         As used herein, the term "malignant" refers to a cancer in which a group of tumor cells
display one or more of uncontrolled growth (i.e., division beyond normal limits), invasion (i.e.,
intrusion on and destruction of adjacent tissues), and metastasis (i.e., spread to other locations in
the body via lymph or blood). As used herein, the term "metastasize" refers to the spread of
cancer from one part of the body to another. A tumor formed by cells that have spread is called a
"metastatic tumor" or a "metastasis." The metastatic tumor contains cells that are like those in
the original (primary) tumor.
         As used herein, the term "benign" or "non-malignant" refers to tumors that may grow
larger but do not spread to other parts of the body. Benign tumors are self-limited and typically
do not invade or metastasize.
         A "cancer cell" or "tumor cell" refers to an individual cell of a cancerous growth or
tissue. A tumor refers generally to a swelling or lesion formed by an abnormal growth of cells,
which may be benign, pre-malignant, or malignant. Most cancers form tumors, but some, e.g.,
leukemia, do not necessarily form tumors. For those cancers that form tumors, the terms cancer
(cell) and tumor (cell) are used interchangeably. The amount of a tumor in an individual is the
"tumor burden" which can be measured as the number, volume, or weight of the tumor.
         An "infectious disease" refers to a disease that can be transmitted from person to person
or from organism to organism, and is caused by a microbial agent (e.g., common cold). Infectious
diseases are known in the art and include, for example, hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases
(e.g., Chlamydia, gonorrhea), tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, diphtheria, hepatitis B, hepatitis C,
cholera, and influenza.
         An "autoimmune disease" refers to a disease in which the body produces an
immunogenic (i.e., immune system) response to some constituent of its own tissue. In other
words the immune system loses its ability to recognize some tissue or system within the body as
"self' and targets and attacks it as if it were foreign. Autoimmune diseases can be classified into
those in which predominantly one organ is affected (e.g., hemolytic anemia and anti-immune
thyroiditis), and those in which the autoimmune disease process is diffused through many tissues
(e.g., systemic lupus erytnematosus). For example, multiple sclerosis is thought to be caused by

                                                      - 21
T cells attacking the sheaths that surround the nerve fibers of the brain and spinal cord. This
results in loss of coordination, weakness, and blurred vision. Autoimmune diseases are known in
the art and include, for instance, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Grave's disease, lupus, multiple
sclerosis, rheumatic arthritis, hemolytic anemia, anti-immune thyroiditis, systemic lupus
erythematosus, celiac disease, Crohn's disease, colitis, diabetes, scleroderma, psoriasis, and the
like.
         An "immunodeficiency" means the state of a patient whose immune system has been
compromised by disease or by administration of chemicals. This condition makes the system
deficient in the number and type of blood cells needed to defend against a foreign substance.
Immunodeficiency conditions or diseases are known in the art and include, for example, AIDS
(acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), SCID (severe combined immunodeficiency disease),
selective IgA deficiency, common variable immunodeficiency, X-linked agammaglobulinemia,
chronic granulomatous disease, hyper-IgM syndrome, and diabetes.
         As used herein, the term "inflammatory disease" refers to either an acute or chronic
inflammatory condition, which can result from infections or non-infectious causes. Various
infectious causes include meningitis, encephalitis, uveitis, colitis, tuberculosis, dermatitis, and
adult respiratory distress syndrome. Non-infectious causes include trauma (bums, cuts,
contusions, crush injuries), autoimmune diseases, and organ rejection episodes.
         By "enhance" or "promote," or "increase" or "expand" refers generally to the ability of a
composition contemplated herein to produce, elicit, or cause a greater physiological response
(i.e., downstream effects) compared to the response caused by either vehicle or a control
molecule/composition. A measurable physiological response may include an increase in T cell
expansion, activation, proliferation, and/or an increase in cancer cell death killing ability, among
others apparent from the understanding in the art and the description herein. An "increased" or
"enhanced" amount is typically a "statistically significant" amount, and may include an increase
that is 1.1, 1.2, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30 or more times (e.g., 500, 1000 times)
(including all integers and decimal points in between and above 1, e.g., 1.5, 1.6, 1.7. 1.8, etc.) the
response produced by vehicle or a control composition.
         By "decrease" or "lower," or "lessen," or "reduce," or "abate" refers generally to the
ability of composition contemplated herein to produce, elicit, or cause a lesser physiological

                                                   - 22
response (i.e., downstream effects) compared to the response caused by either vehicle or a control
molecule/composition. A "decrease" or "reduced" amount is typically a "statistically significant"
amount, and may include an decrease that is 1.1, 1.2, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30 or
more times (e.g., 500, 1000 times) (including all integers and decimal points in between and
above 1, e.g., 1.5, 1.6, 1.7. 1.8, etc.) the response (reference response) produced by vehicle, a
control composition, or the response in a particular cell lineage.
          By "maintain," or "preserve," or "maintenance," or "no change," or "no substantial
change," or "no substantial decrease" refers generally to the ability of a composition
contemplated herein to produce, elicit, or cause a lesser physiological response (i.e., downstream
effects) in a cell, as compared to the response caused by either vehicle, a control
molecule/composition, or the response in a particular cell lineage. A comparable response is one
that is not significantly different or measurable different from the reference response.
          The terms "specific binding affinity" or "specifically binds" or "specifically bound" or
"specific binding" or "specifically targets" as used herein, describe binding of one molecule to
another at greater binding affinity than background binding. A binding domain (or a CAR
comprising a binding domain or a fusion protein containing a binding domain) "specifically
binds" to a target molecule if it binds to or associates with a target molecule with an affinity or Ka
(i.e., an equilibrium association constant of a particular binding interaction with units of 1/M) of,
for example, greater than or equal to about 105 M-.       In certain embodiments, a binding domain
(or a fusion protein thereof) binds to a target with a Ka greater than or equal to about 106 M-, 107
M , 101 M , 109 M-,       1010 M-, 10" M , 1012 M-, or 103 M-.          "High affinity" binding domains
(or single chain fusion proteins thereof) refers to those binding domains with a Ka of at least 107
M- , at least 108 M- , at least 109 M- , at least 1010 M   , at least 10" M- , at least 10 1 M , at least
101 M-, or greater.
          Alternatively, affinity may be defined as an equilibrium dissociation constant (K) of a
particular binding interaction with units of M (e.g., 10-5 M to 10-s M, or less). Affinities of
binding domain polypeptides and CAR proteins according to the present disclosure can be readily
determined using conventional techniques, e.g., by competitive ELISA (enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay), or by binding association, or displacement assays using labeled ligands,
or using a surface-plasmon resonance device such as the Biacore T100, which is available from

                                                 - 23
Biacore, Inc., Piscataway, NJ, or optical biosensor technology such as the EPIC system or
EnSpire that are available from Coming and Perkin Elmer respectively (see also, e.g., Scatchard
et al. (1949) Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 51:660; and U.S. Patent Nos. 5,283,173; 5,468,614, or the
equivalent) .
         In one embodiment, the affinity of specific binding is about 2 times greater than
background binding, about 5 times greater than background binding, about 10 times greater than
background binding, about 20 times greater than background binding, about 50 times greater than
background binding, about 100 times greater than background binding, or about 1000 times
greater than background binding or more.
         An "antigen (Ag)" refers to a compound, composition, or substance that can stimulate the
production of antibodies or a T cell response in an animal, including compositions (such as one
that includes a tumor-specific protein) that are injected or absorbed into an animal. An antigen
reacts with the products of specific humoral or cellular immunity, including those induced by
heterologous antigens, such as the disclosed antigens. A "target antigen" or "target antigen or
interest" is an antigen that a binding domain of a CAR or engineered TCR contemplated herein,
is designed to bind.
         An "epitope" or "antigenic determinant" refers to the region of an antigen to which a
binding agent binds.
         An "isolated peptide" or an "isolated polypeptide" and the like, as used herein, refer to in
vitro isolation, synthesis, and/or purification of a recombinant or synthetic peptide or polypeptide
molecule or of a non-naturally occurring peptide or polypeptide from a cellular environment, and
from association with other components of the cell, i.e., it is not significantly associated with in
vivo substances.
         As used herein, "isolated polynucleotide" refers to in vitro isolation, synthesis, and/or
purification of a recombinant, synthetic, or non-naturally occurring polynucleotide, e.g., an
isolated complementary DNA (cDNA) or other polynucleotide that does not exist in nature and
that has been made by the hand of man. In particular embodiments, an isolated polynucleotide
refers to a recombinant, synthetic, or non-naturally occurring polynucleotide that has been
purified from the sequences which flank it in a naturally-occurring state, e.g., a DNA fragment
that has been removed from the sequences that are normally adjacent to the fragment.

                                                - 24
         Preferably, the cellular therapeutics manufactured using the methods contemplated herein
are endotoxin free, and manufactured according to cGMP practices. As used herein, the term
"endotoxin free" refers to vessels and/or compositions that contain at most trace amounts (i.e.,
amounts having no adverse physiological effects to a subject) of endotoxin, and preferably
undetectable amounts of endotoxin. In one embodiment, the term "endotoxin free" refers to
compositions that are at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, at least 99%, or 100%
endotoxin free. Endotoxins are toxins associated with certain bacteria, typically gram-negative
bacteria, although endotoxins may be found in gram-positive bacteria, such as Listeria
monocytogenes. The most prevalent endotoxins are lipopolysaccharides (LPS) or
lipooligosaccharides (LOS) found in the outer membrane of various Gram-negative bacteria, and
which represent a central pathogenic feature in the ability of these bacteria to cause disease.
Small amounts of endotoxin in humans can produce fever, a lowering of the blood pressure, and
activation of inflammation and coagulation, among other adverse physiological effects.
Therefore, it is often desirable to remove most or all traces of endotoxin from drug product
containers, because even small amounts may cause adverse effects in humans. Endotoxins can be
removed from vessels using methods known in the art, for example, vessels can be cleaned in
HEPA filtered washing equipment with endotoxin-free water, depyrogenated at 250'C, and
clean-packaged in HEPA filtered workstations located inside a class 100/10 clean room (e.g., a
class 100 clean room, contains no more than 100 particles bigger than half a micron in a cubic
foot of air).
         As used herein, the term "current good manufacturing practice (cGMP)" refers to the
control and management of manufacturing, and quality control testing, of foods, pharmaceutical
products, and medical devices. cGMP does not necessarily rely on sampling, but instead relies on
documentation of every aspect of the process, activities, and operations involved with drug and
medical device manufacture. If the documentation showing how the product was made and
tested (which enables traceability and, in the event of future problems, recall from the market) is
not correct and in order, then the product does not meet the required specification and is
considered contaminated (i.e., adulterated in the US). Additionally, cGMP typically requires that
all manufacturing and testing equipment has been qualified as suitable for use, and that all
operational methodologies and procedures (e.g., manufacturing, cleaning, and analytical testing)

                                                   - 25
utilized in the drug manufacturing process have been validated according to predetermined
specifications to demonstrate that they can perform their purported function(s). In the US, the
phrase "current good manufacturing practice" appears in 501(B) of the 1938 Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. § 351).
C.       T CELL MANUFACTURING METHODS
         Currently, existing T cell manufacturing methods include various complex steps for the
isolation, activation, transduction and expansion of CAR T cells. In contrast, the present
inventors used a small-scale research model to develop a simple, robust, well characterized,
flexible, closed system T cell manufacturing platform that was transferred to large-scale clinical
cGMP manufacturing process for engineered CAR T cells.
         In various embodiments, cells are manufactured using a closed processing system, or in in
combination with a closed cell processing system. Closed cell processing systems automate
processes including treatment, centrifugation, incubation, media addition, cell selection, cell
washing, and final fill and finish within "closed" or resealable vessels. Closed cell processing
systems integrate and automate the processes and replicate many qualitatively controlled manual
tasks to provide consistent and operator-independent quality.
         The benefits associated with an automated, closed-cell processing system would include
significant reduction in the cost of therapies (typically 25-90%) and the number of operators
required (typically >70%); lowered dependence on skilled labor; significant savings in capital
investment through better facility use (typically 30-50%); improved quality and fewer quality
events; and an ability to more rapidly scale up and scale out to match market demands.
         In various embodiments, a method for manufacturing therapeutic T cell compositions
comprises obtaining a population of cells comprising immune effector cells and antigen
presenting cells using a closed system process. In certain embodiments, the isolated population
of cells is seeded at a particular density to initiate cultures and T cells are activated and stimulated
by contacting the cells with primary and costimulatory ligands. In particular embodiments,
populations of cells comprising activated T cells are transduced with a viral vector encoding a
CAR or engineered TCR and cultured to expand the T cells. Manufactured immune effector cell

                                                   - 26
compositions comprising the therapeutic T cells may then be used to treat subjects in need thereof
or frozen for later use.
         1.        Source of T Cells
         In particular embodiments, T cells can be obtained from a number of sources including,
but not limited to, peripheral blood, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph
nodes tissue, cord blood, thymus issue, tissue from a site of infection, ascites, pleural effusion,
spleen tissue, and tumors. In one embodiment, T cells may also be obtained from a cultured T
cell line, e.g., Jurkat, SupT 1, etc. In particular embodiments, a population of cells comprising T
cells, e.g., PBMCs, is used in the manufacturing methods contemplated herein. In other
embodiments, an isolated or purified population of T cells is used in the manufacturing methods
contemplated herein.
         In one embodiment, sources of T cells may also be obtained commercially, e.g., Sanguine
Biosciences.
         2.        Harvesting Cells
         The present invention contemplates the manufacture of improved T cell compositions.
Cells may be autologous/autogeneic ("self') or non-autologous ("non-self," e.g., allogeneic,
syngeneic or xenogeneic). In one embodiment, the cells are obtained from a mammalian subject.
In another embodiment, the cells are obtained from a primate subject. In a particular
embodiment, the cells are obtained from a human subject.
         In various embodiments, cell populations comprising T cells are obtained from an
individual and subjected to the manufacturing methods contemplated herein. In one embodiment,
cells from the circulating blood of an individual are obtained by a method of apheresis, e.g.,
leukapheresis. The apheresis product may contain lymphocytes, including T cells, monocytes,
granulocytes, B cells, other nucleated white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets or may be a
leukapheresis product comprising lymphocytes, including T cells, monocytes, granulocytes, B
cells, and other nucleated white blood cells. In one embodiment, the cells collected by apheresis
may be washed to remove the plasma fraction and to place the cells in an appropriate buffer or
media for subsequent processing. The cells can be washed with PBS or with another suitable
solution that lacks calcium, magnesium, and most, if not all other, divalent cations.

                                                - 27
         Once a population of cells comprising T cells has been obtained, cell counts and viability
of cells within the population of cells can be determined, the population or portions thereof may
be cryopreserved for future use or analyses, and cells in the population, e.g., PBMCs, may be
characterized using a number of cell marker panels, e.g., CD3, CD4, CD8, CD14, CD16, CD19,
CD28, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD61, CD62L, CD66b, CD 127, and HLA-DR.
         In particular embodiments, the volume of apheresed cells used in the manufacturing
methods contemplated herein is about 50 mL to about 500 mL, about 50 mL to about 250 mL,
about 50 mL to about 200 mL, about 100 mL to about 500 mL, about 100 mL to about 250 mL,
or about 100 mL to about 200 mL, or any intervening range thereof.
         In certain embodiments, the volume of apheresed cells used in the manufacturing
methods contemplated herein is about 25 mL, about 50 mL, about 75 mL, about 100 mL, about
125 mL, about 150 mL, about 175 mL, about 200 mL, about 225 mL, about 250 mL, about 275
mL, about 300 mL, about 325 mL, about 350 mL, about 375 mL, about 400 mL, about 425 mL,
about 450 mL, about 475 mL, or about 500 mL, or any intervening volume thereof.
         3.       PBMC Isolation
         In particular embodiments, a population of PBMCs is used in the T cell manufacturing
methods contemplated herein. In certain embodiments, PBMCs comprising T cells can be
obtained from a unit of blood or apheresed fraction collected from a subject using any number of
techniques known to the skilled person, such as centrifugation and sedimentation, e.g.,
FICOLLT M separation, PERCOLLTM separation, etc.
         In certain embodiments, the PBMCs collected by apheresis are isolated in a FICOLLTM
or PERCOLLTM gradient using a semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge, e.g., the Cobe 2991 cell
processor, the Cell Saver 5 or the like. In some embodiments, the PBMCs collected by apheresis
are isolated without the use of FICOLLTM or PERCOLLTM gradient using a counter-flow
centrifugal elutriation device, e.g., Terumo BCT ELUTRA@, or the like. Use of the Cell Saver 5
allows for closed system processing of PBMC starting material via Ficoll as well as final
concentration and washing of the manufactured T cell compositions on one device. Use of the
closed system simplifies manufacturing by minimizing the equipment needed for cGMP
processing and results in consistent and reproducibly pure PBMC or final T cell compositions.

                                                  -28
         In one embodiment, PBMCs are isolated using an ELUTRA@ counter-flow centrifugal
elutriation device and washed in a Cell Saver 5+ or LOVO.
         In some embodiments, after isolation of PBMC, both cytotoxic and helper T lymphocytes
can be sorted into naive, memory, and effector T cell subpopulations either before or after
activation, expansion, and/or genetic modification, using a closed system device and cGMP
reagents, e.g., CliniMACS.
         After isolation, PBMC cell counts and viability can be determined, PBMCs or portions
thereof can be cryopreserved for future use or analyses, and PBMCs can be characterized using a
number of cell marker panels, e.g., CD3, CD4, CD8, CD1 Ib, CD1 Ic, CD14, CD16, CD19,
CD45RA, CD45RO, CD61, and CD66b.
         In particular embodiments, after PBMCs are isolated, they are subject to one or more
wash steps, e.g., to remove the Ficoll. In certain embodiments, cells may be washed one or more
times before, during, or after, any number of the manufacturing steps contemplated herein.
Washing may be performed in any suitable buffer or culture media, e.g., CliniMACS buffer
supplemented with HABS or HSA, PlasmaLyte,TCGM, PBS, Ringer' s solution, physiological
saline, 0.9% NaCl, or another suitable solution that lacks calcium, magnesium, and most, if not
all other, divalent cations, or any suitable culture media, or any suitable combination thereof. In
one embodiment, after PBMCs are isolated, they are washed in a semiautomated flowthrough
centrifuge, e.g., the Cobe 2991 cell processor, the Cell Saver 5, the Baxter CytoMate, LOVO or
the like. In another embodiment, after PBMCs are isolated they are transferred to another sterile
vessel, e.g., a transfer or culture vessel. As used herein, the term "vessel" relates generally to any
container capable of being used for purposes of culturing, handling, manipulating, storing,
analyzing, incubating, administering and otherwise establishing, supporting, growing, harvesting,
treating, and using cells and by-products thereof ex vivo or in vitro or otherwise for a variety of
purposes as set forth and as contemplated herein.
         "Transfer vessels" generally refer to vessels that are not gas-permeable. In one
embodiment, washes are performed in transfer vessels and subsequent cell manipulation are
performed in one or more types of cell culture vessels.
         Illustrative examples of cell culture vessels include, but are not limited to cell culture
bags, bioreactors (e.g., Gas-permeable Rapid Expansion Flask (G-Rex) bioreactor, Wilson-Wolf

                                                   - 29
Manufacturing; and WAVE bioreactors, GE Healthcare Life Sciences), cell or tissue culture
devices, pouches, capsules, culture vials, apparatuses, cell factories, containers, culture tubes
(e.g., microcentrifuge tubes, EPPENDORF TUBES®, FALCON® conical tubes, etc.), culture
dishes (e.g., Petri dishes), culture flasks, , spinner flasks, roller bottles, multi-well plates (e.g., 2
well, 4-well, 6-well, 12-well, 24-well, 48 well, 96-well, and 384-well plates), micro-incubators,
micro-carriers, microplates, microslide and chamber slides.
         In yet another embodiment, PBMCs may be washed one or more times in a
semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge and transferred and washed one or more times in a
suitable vessel.
         Illustrative embodiments of cell culture bags include, but are not limited to MACS®
GMP Cell Expansion Bags, MACS® GMP Cell Differentiation Bags, EXP-Pak TM Cell
Expansion Bio-Containers, VueLifeTM bags, KryoSureTM bags, KryoVue TM bags, Lifecell® bags,
PermaLifeTM bags, X-Fold TM bags, Si-Culture TM bags, Origen biomedical cryobags, and
VectraCellTM bags . In particular embodiments, cell culture bags comprise one or more of the
following characteristics: gas permeability (materials have suitable gas transfer rates for oxygen,
carbon dioxide and nitrogen); negligible water loss rates (materials are practically impermeable to
water); chemically and biologically inert (materials do not react with the vessel contents), and
retention of flexibility and strength in various conditions (materials enable vessel to be
microwaved, treated with UV irradiation, centrifuged, or used within a broad range of
temperatures, e.g., from -100 C to +100 C).
         Exemplary volumes of the cell culture vessel contemplated herein include, without
limitation, volumes of about 10 mL, about 25 mL, about 50 mL, about 75 mL, about 100 mL,
about 150 mL, about 250 mL, about 500 mL, about 750 mL, about 1000 mL, about 1250 mL,
about 1500 mL, about 1750 mL, about 2000 mL, or more, including any intervening volume. For
example, intervening volumes between 10 mL and 25 mL, include 11 mL, 12 mL, 13 mL, 14
mL, 15 mL, 16 mL, 17 mL, 18 mL, 19 mL, 20 mL, 21 mL, 22 mL, 23 mL, and 24 mL. In one
embodiment, the volume of the cell culture vessel is about 100 mL to about 10 L. .
         Subsequent to washing the isolated cells, post-wash cells counts and viability can be
determined, can be cryopreserved for future use or analyses, and/or can be characterized using

                                                   - 30
fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis, using a number of cell markers, e.g., CD3,
CD4, CD8, CD27, CD28, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD62L, CD 127, CD 197, CD279, and HLA-DR.
          4.       Cryopreservation
          In particular embodiments, the T cell manufacturing methods contemplated herein are
practiced using freshly isolated populations of cells comprising T cells. In other particular
embodiments, the methods contemplated herein are practiced using cryopreserved populations of
cells comprising T cells. Cells may be cryopreserved following harvest or isolation of PBMCs,
after culture initiation and activation, after transduction, or after expansion or after any process
step. Manufactured T cell compositions may also be cryopreserved following the T cell
manufacturing process. The freeze-thaw cycle may provide a more uniform T cell composition
by removing non-T cell populations.
          Cell populations may be cryopreserved in a suitable cell culture vessel as contemplated
herein, see supra, under PBMC isolation and elsewhere herein. The cell populations may be
frozen in a suitable cell culture medium and/or freezing medium, e.g., 50% plasmalyte and 50%
Cryostor 10; 50/40/10 (XVIVO/HABS/DMSO); Cryostor 10; PBS containing 20% DMSO and
8% human serum albumin, or culture media containing 10% Dextran 40 and 5% Dextrose, 20%
Human Serum Albumin and 7.5% DMSO, or 31.25% Plasmalyte-A, 31.25% Dextrose 5%,
0.45% NaCl, 10% Dextran 40 and 5% Dextrose, 20% Human Serum Albumin, and 7.5% DMSO
or other suitable cell freezing media containing for example, Hespan and PlasmaLyte A. Cells
then are frozen to a temperature of about -80'C to about -135'C at a rate of 1 per minute in a
controlled rate freezer and stored in the vapor phase of a liquid nitrogen storage tank. Other
illustrative methods of controlled freezing may be used as well as uncontrolled freezing
immediately at -20' C or in liquid nitrogen.
          After cryopreservation, cells are thawed in a 37'C water bath and washed in a suitable
cell culture media or buffer, e.g., TCGM. The thawed cells may be subsequently used, either for
the manufacturing methods contemplated herein or for administration to a subject. Wash steps
may be performed as contemplated elsewhere herein.
          In certain embodiments, the populations of cells comprising T cells are isolated from an
individual and activated and stimulated to proliferate in vitro without further manipulation ex vivo
or in vitro. Such cells can then be directly re-administered into the individual. In further

                                                  -31
embodiments, after a population of cells comprising T cells has been isolated, the cells are first
activated and stimulated to proliferate in vitro prior to being genetically modified to express an
engineered TCR or CAR. In this regard, the T cells may be cultured before and/or after being
genetically modified (i.e., transduced or transfected to express an engineered TCR or CAR
contemplated herein).
         5.       Culture Initiation and Activation
         In order to achieve sufficient therapeutic doses of T cell compositions, existing methods
for manufacturing T cells are often subject to one or more rounds of stimulation, activation and/or
expansion, thereby introducing more opportunities for contamination, increasing the expense and
time of the manufacturing process, and generally result in an inferior cell therapy product.
         The T cell manufacturing methods contemplated herein simple and robust culture
initiation and activation steps that contribute to a resulting T cell composition that is a superior
therapeutic product. In one embodiment, culture initiation and activation comprises seeding cell
populations in a cell culture vessel, e.g., cell culture bag, GREX bioreactor, WAVE bioreactor,
etc. and activating T cells through primary and co-stimulatory T cell signaling pathways. The
cellular compositions may further be cultured in the presence of one or more additional growth
factors or cytokines, e.g., IL-2, IL7, and/or IL-15, or any suitable combination thereof.
         In particular embodiments, culture initiation comprises seeding a population of cells
comprising T cells, e.g., PBMCs, in a cell culture vessel, at a desired density, e.g., 1-5 x 106
cells/mL in a suitable cell culture medium containing one or more cytokines, primary stimulatory
ligands, and co-stimulatory ligands. In another embodiment, the cytokines, stimulatory, and co
stimulatory ligands may be subsequently added to the PBMCs in the cell culture medium.
         In one embodiment, the cell culture vessel is a cell culture bag, including but not limited
MACS® GMP Cell Expansion Bags, MACS® GMP Cell Differentiation Bags, EXP-Pak TM Cell
Expansion Bio-Containers, VueLifeTM bags, KryoSureTM bags, KryoVue TM bags, Lifecell@ bags,
PermaLifeTM bags, X-FoldTM bags, SiCultureTM bags, and VectraCellTM bags, as contemplated
elsewhere herein.
         In particular embodiments, the cell culture vessel is seeded with a total of about 1 x 109
cells, about 5 x 108 cells, about 1 x 108 cells, about 5 x 107 cells, about 1 x 107 cells, about 5 x 106

                                                 - 32
cells, or about 1 x 106 cells, or any intervening amount of cells. In particular embodiments, the
cells are PBMCs and are seeded at a total of about 1 x 108 cells.
         In certain embodiments, cell populations, e.g., PBMCs, are seeded in the cell culture
vessel at a density of about 1 x 107 cells/mL, about 9 x 106 cells/mL, about 8 x 106 cells/mL,
about 7 x 106 cells/mL, about 6 x 106 cells/mL, about 5 x 106 cells/mL, about 4 x 106 cells/mL,
about 3 x 106 cells/mL, about 2 x 106 cells/mL, about 1 x 106 cells/mL, about 9 x 105 cells/mL,
about 8 x 105 cells/mL, about 7 x 105 cells/mL, about 6 x 105 cells/mL, about 5 x 105 cells/mL,
about 4 x 105 cells/mL, about 3 x 105 cells/mL, about 2 x 105 cells/mL, or about 1 x 105 cells/mL,
or any intervening density of cells. In particular embodiments, PBMCs are seeded at a density of
about 1 x 106 cells/mL.
         In particular embodiments, the cells are seeded in a cell culture vessel comprising a
suitable cell culture medium. Illustrative examples of suitable cell culture media include, but are
not limited to T cell growth medium (TCGM; X-VIVO T M 15 supplemented with 2mM
GlutaMAX TM-I, 10mM HEPES, and 5% human AB serum), CTS TM OpTmizerT M T Cell
Expansion SFM (Life Technologies), CTS TM AIM V® Medium (Life Technologies), RPMI
1640, Clicks, DMEM, MEM, a-MEM, F-12, X-Vivo 15 (Lonza), CellGro@ Serum-Free Medium
(CellGenix), and X-Vivo 20 (Lonza) with added amino acids, sodium pyruvate, and vitamins,
either serum-free or supplemented with an appropriate amount of serum (or plasma) or a defined
set of hormones, and/or an amount of cytokine(s) sufficient for the growth and expansion of T
cells. In a particualr embodiment, the cell culture medium is TCGM.
         Cell culture media contemplated herein may further comprise one or more factors
including, but not limited to serum (e.g., fetal bovine or human serum), interleukin-2 (IL-2),
insulin, IFN-WIL -4, IL-7, IL-21, GM-CSF, IL- 10, IL- 12, IL-15, TGF and TNF -a
         In one embodiment, the cell culture medium may comprise one or more cytokines, e.g.,
such as IL-2, IL-7, and/or IL-15, or any suitable combination thereof. Illustrative examples of
suitable concentrations of each cytokine or the total concentration of cytokines includes about 25
IU/mL, about 50 IU/mL, about 75 IU/mL, about 100 IU/mL, about 125 IU/mL, about 150
IU/mL, about 175 IU/mL, about 200 IU/mL, about 250 IU/mL, about 300 IU/mL, about 350
IU/mL, about 400 IU/mL, about 450 IU/mL, or about 500 IU/mL or any intervening amount of

                                                  - 33
cytokine thereof In particular embodiments, the cell culture medium comprises about 100
IU/mL of each of, or in total of, IL-2, IL-i, and/or IL-15, or any combination thereof.
         In particular embodiments, the cell culture medium comprises about 250 IU/mL of each
of, or in total of, IL-2, IL-1, and/or IL-15, or any combination thereof.
         In particular embodiments, PBMCs or isolated T cells are contacted with one or more
stimulatory agents and costimulatory agents, such as anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, and one
or more cytokines, such as IL-2, IL-7, and/or IL- 15.
         T cell activation can be accomplished by providing a primary stimulation signal through
the T cell TCR/CD3 complex or via stimulation of the CD2 surface protein and by providing a
secondary costimulation signal through an accessory molecule, e.g, CD28 or 4-1BBL
         The TCR/CD3 complex may be stimulated by contacting the T cell with a suitable CD3
binding agent, e.g., a CD3 ligand or an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody. Illustrative examples of
CD3 antibodies include, but are not limited to, OKT3, G19-4, BC3, and 64.1. Other antibodies
which bind to the same epitopes as any of the above described antibodies can also be used.
Additional antibodies, or combinations of antibodies, can be prepared and identified by standard
techniques as disclosed elsewhere herein. In one embodiment, the anti-CD3 antibody is OKT3.
         In another embodiment, a CD2 binding agent may be used to provide a primary
stimulation signal to the T cells. Illustrative examples of CD2 binding agents include, but are not
limited to, CD2 ligands and anti-CD2 antibodies, e.g., the TI 1.3 antibody in combination with the
TI 1.1 or TI 1.2 antibody (Meuer, S. C. et al. (1984) Cell 36:897-906) and the 9.6 antibody (which
recognizes the same epitope as TI 1.1) in combination with the 9-1 antibody (Yang, S. Y. et al.
(1986) J Immunol. 137:1097-1100).
         In addition to the primary stimulation signal provided through the TCR/CD3 complex, or
via CD2, induction of T cell responses requires a second, costimulatory signal. In particular
embodiments, a CD28 binding agent can be used to provide a costimulatory signal. Suitable
costimulatory ligands include, but are not limited to, CD7, B7-1 (CD80), B7-2 (CD86), PD-L 1,
PD-L2, 4-IBBL, OX40L, inducible costimulatory ligand (ICOS-L), intercellular adhesion
molecule (ICAM), CD30L, CD40, CD70, CD83, HLA-G, MICA, MICB, HVEM, lymphotoxin
beta receptor, ILT3, ILT4, an agonist or antibody that binds Toll ligand receptor, and a ligand that
specifically binds with B7-H3.

                                                 - 34
        In a particular embodiment, a costimulatory ligand comprises an antibody or antigen
binding fragment thereof that specifically binds to a costimulatory molecule present on a T cell,
including but not limited to, CD27, CD28, 4- IBB, OX40, CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS,
lymphocyte function-associated antigen- 1 (LFA-1), CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand
that specifically binds with CD83.
        Illustrative examples of CD28 binding agents include but are not limited to: natural CD
28 ligands, e.g., a natural ligand for CD28 (e.g., a member of the B7 family of proteins, such as
B7-1(CD80) and B7-2 (CD86); and anti-CD28 monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof capable
of crosslinking the CD28 molecule, e.g., monoclonal antibodies 9.3, B-T3, XR-CD28, KOLT-2,
15E8, 248.23.2, and EX5.3D10. In one embodiment, the anti-CD28 antibody is 15E8.
        In one embodiment, the molecule providing the primary stimulation signal, for example a
molecule which provides stimulation through the TCR/CD3 complex or CD2, and the
costimulatory molecule are coupled to the same surface.
        In certain embodiments, binding agents that provide stimulatory and costimulatory
signals are localized on the surface of a cell. This can be accomplished by transfecting or
transducing a cell with a nucleic acid encoding the binding agent in a form suitable for its
expression on the cell surface or alternatively by coupling a binding agent to the cell surface.
        In another embodiment, the molecule providing the primary stimulation signal, for
example a molecule which provides stimulation through the TCR/CD3 complex or CD2, and the
costimulatory molecule are displayed on antigen presenting cells.
        In one embodiment, the molecule providing the primary stimulation signal, for example a
molecule which provides stimulation through the TCR/CD3 complex or CD2, and the
costimulatory molecule are provided on separate surfaces.
        In a certain embodiment, one of the binding agents that provide stimulatory and
costimulatory signals is soluble (provided in solution) and the other agent(s) is provided on one or
more surfaces.
        In a particular embodiment, the binding agents that provide stimulatory and costimulatory
signals are both provided in a soluble form (provided in solution).

                                                   - 35
         In various embodiments, the methods for manufacturing T cells contemplated herein
comprise activating T cells by contacting the T cells with soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies.
         In particular embodiments, the cell culture medium for activating T cells comprises a
concentration of anti-CD3 antibody or CD3 binding agent of about 10 ng/mL, about 20 ng/mL,
about 30 ng/mL, about 40 ng/mL, about 50 ng/mL, about 60 ng/mL, about 70 ng/mL, about 80
ng/mL, about 90 ng/mL, about 100 ng/mL, or about 200 ng/mL, or any intervening
concentration.
         In certain embodiments, the cell culture medium for activating T cells comprises a
concentration of anti-CD28 antibody or CD28 binding agent of about 10 ng/mL, about 20 ng/mL,
about 30 ng/mL, about 40 ng/mL, about 50 ng/mL, about 60 ng/mL, about 70 ng/mL, about 80
ng/mL, about 90 ng/mL, about 100 ng/mL, or about 200 ng/mL, or any intervening
concentration.
         In various embodiments, the cell culture medium for activating T cells comprises about
50 ng/mL of anti-CD3 antibody and 50 ng/mL of anti-CD28 antibody.
         The populations of cells seeded in the cell culture vessel are activated for at least 30
minutes, at least Ihour, at least 2 hours, at least 3 hours, at least 4 hours, a least 5 hours, at least 6
hours, at least 7 hours, at least 9 hours, at least 10 hours, at least 11 hours, at least 12 hours, at
least 13 hours, at least 14 hours, at least 15 hours, at least 16 hours, at least 17 hours, at least 18
hours, at least 19 hours, at least 20 hours, at least 21 hours, at least 22 hours, at least 23 hours, or
at least 24 hours, or any intervening length of time.
         In certain embodiments, cells are harvested, isolated, and washed, cell cultures are
initiated and T cells are activated all within a period of about 18 hours to about 36 hours, or
within a period of about 24 hours, or any intervening length of time thereof.
         6.       Transduction
         The T cell manufacturing methods contemplated herein comprise modifying immune
effector cells and/or T cells to express an engineered T cell receptor (TCR) or chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR). In particular embodiments, a population of cells comprising T cells is activated,
modified to express an engineered TCR or CAR, and then cultured for expansion. The steps may
take place in the same cell culture vessel or in different vessels. "Transduction" refers to the

                                                  - 36
delivery of a gene(s) or other polynucleotide sequence, e.g., an engineered TCR or CAR to
immune effector cells, including T cells, using a retroviral or lentiviral vector by means of viral
infection. In one embodiment, retroviral vectors are transduced into a cell through infection and
provirus integration. In certain embodiments, a target cell, e.g., a PBMC or a T cell, is
"transduced" if it comprises a gene or other polynucleotide sequence delivered to the cell by
infection using a viral or retroviral vector. In particular embodiments, a transduced cell
comprises one or more genes or other polynucleotide sequences delivered by a retroviral or
lentiviral vector in its cellular genome.
         The production of infectious viral particles and viral stock solutions may be carried out
using conventional techniques. Methods of preparing viral stock solutions are known in the art
and are illustrated by, e.g., Y. Soneoka et al. (1995) Nucl. Acids Res. 23:628-633, and N. R.
Landau et al. (1992) J Virol. 66:5110-5113. Recombinant viruses with titers of several millions
of transducing units per milliliter (TU/mL) can be generated by known techniques. After
ultracentrifugation concentrated stocks of about 108 TU/mL, 109 TU/mL, 1010 TU/mL, 10"
TU/mL, or 1012 TU/mL, or any intervening titer can be obtained.
         Viruses may be delivered according to viral titer (TU/mL), which can be measured, for
example, by using a commercially available p24 titer assay, which is an ELISA against the p24
viral coat protein. The following formula can be used to calculate the pg/mL of p24: there are
approximately 2000 molecules of p24 per physical particle (PP) of lentivirus: (2 x 103)   x  (24 x
103 Da of p24 per PP), 48 x 106/Avogadro = (48 x 106) I (6 x 1023)= 8 x 10 "g of p24 per PP,
approximately 1 PP per 1 x 10-16g of p24, 1 x 104 PP per pg of p24. A reasonably well packaged,
VSV-G pseudotyped lentiviral vector will have an infectivity index in the range of 1 TU per 1000
physical particles (PP) to 1 TU per 100 PP (or less). Thus, the range is approximately 10 to 100
TU/pg of p24. It is through this conversion that TU/mL is obtained.
         Infectious titers may also be determined by analysis of transduced human osteosarcoma
(HOS) cells (Kutner et al., 2009, Nature Protocols 4: 495-505). Briefly, transduced HOS cells are
cultured for seven days in DMEM supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) after which
the genomic DNA is extracted by DNeasy (Qiagen, Venlo Netherlands, Cat# 69506) and
evaluated by quantitative PCR (qPCR). The primer/probe sets of the qPCR protocol measures
the vector copy number (VCN) of the transduced cells by determining the number of lentiviral

                                                  - 37
psi-gag region copies per number of endogenous human RNaseP copies. The integrity of the
provirus was assessed by sequencing individual proviral insertions.
         In one embodiment, viral titer is determined using a HOS cell line assay.
         In particular embodiments, a population of cells comprising activated T cells is
transduced in a cell culture vessel about the time of activation, about 1 hour after activation, about
2 hours after activation, about 3 hours after activation, about 4 hours after activation, about 5
hours after activation, about 6 hours after activation, about 7 hours after activation, about 8 hours
after activation, about 9 hours after activation, about 10 hours after activation, about 11 hours
after activation, about 12 hours after activation, about 13 hours after activation, about 14 hours
after activation, about 15 hours after activation, about 16 hours after activation, about 17 hours
after activation, about 18 hours after activation, about 19 hours after activation, about 20 hours
after activation, about 21 hours after activation, about 22 hours after activation, about 23 hours
after activation, about 24 hours after activation, about 25 hours after activation, about 26 hours
after activation, about 27 hours after activation, about 28 hours after activation, about 29 hours
after activation, or about 30 hours after activation or any intervening period of time after
activation.
         In one embodiment, the population of cells is transduced about 20 to about 24 hours after
activation.
         The manufacturing methods contemplated herein comprise transducing PBMCs
comprising activated T cells in a cell culture vessel with a vector of about 1 x 108 to about 1 x
10" TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 5 x 108 to about 5 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 1 x 109 to about 5 x
109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 1 x 109 to about 4 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 1 x 109 to about 3 x
109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 1 x 109 to about 2 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, or any intervening TU
thereof
         In one embodiment, the manufacturing methods contemplated herein comprise
transducing PBMCs comprising activated T cells in a cell culture vessel with a vector of about 1
x 108 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 5 x 108 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 6 x 108 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 7 x
108         8 PBMCs, about         8          PBMCs, about 9 x 108 TU/108 PBMCs, about 1 x 109
                                            8TU/108
TU/108 PBMCs, about 2 x 109 TU/108 PBMCs, about 3 x 109 TU/108 PBMCs, about 4 x 109
TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 5 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 6 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 7 x 109

                                                 - 38
TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 8 x 10 TU/10 8 PBMCs, about 9 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs, or about 1 x 1010
TU/10 8 PBMCs, or any intervening TU.
        In a particular embodiment, the cells are transduced with a vector of about 1 x107 to about
2 x 109 TU/10 8 PBMCs.
        In one embodiment, the manufacturing methods contemplated herein comprise
transducing PBMCs comprising activated T cells in a cell culture vessel with a vector at an MOI
of about 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95 or 100, or any
intervening integer. In one embodiment, PBMCs are transduced with a vector at an MOI of
about 20.
        In certain embodiments, the vector may be diluted in cell culture medium up to about
10% of the cell culture volume, about 15% of the cell culture volume, about 16% of the cell
culture volume, about 17% of the cell culture volume, about 18% of the cell culture volume,
about 19% of the cell culture volume, about 20% of the cell culture volume, about 210% of the cell
culture volume, about 22% of the cell culture volume, about 23% of the cell culture volume,
about 24% of the cell culture volume, about 25% of the cell culture volume, about 30% of the cell
culture volume, about 35% of the cell culture volume, about 40% of the cell culture volume,
about 45% of the cell culture volume, or about 50% of the cell culture volume, or any intervening
percent thereof
        In a particular embodiment, the vector is diluted in cell culture medium, e.g., TCGM, up
to about 20% of the cell culture volume.
        The populations of cells seeded in the cell culture vessel are transduced for about 6 hours,
about 12 hours, about 18 hours, about 24 hours, about 30 hours, about 36 hours, about 42 hours,
about 48 hours, about 54 hours, or about 60 hours, or any intervening length of time.
        In a particular embodiment, the cells are transduced for about 48 hours.
        After the cells are transduced they may be subjected to one or more wash steps as
contemplated herein and subsequently seeded into a suitable cell culture vessel for expansion.
        7.      Expansion
        The T cell manufacturing platforms contemplated herein may comprise one or more
rounds of T cell expansion. In particular embodiments, populations of cells comprising T cells
that have been activated and/or transduced are seeded into suitable cell culture vessels comprising

                                                    - 39
cell culture medium suitable for expansion. In particular embodiments, cells are seeded into a
bioreactor and are periodically harvested without reseeding.
         In certain embodiments, cells are reseeded at a density to maintain log-phase growth of
the cells.
         In particular embodiments, the cells are seeded into the cell culture at a density of about
0.1  x 106 to about 1 x 107 cells/mL, about 0.1    x 106 to about 0.9 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.1  x 106 to
about 0.8 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.1     x 106 to about 0.7 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.1  x 106 to about 0.6
x  106 cells/mL, about 0.1   x 106 to about 0.5 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.2 x 106 to about 0.5 x 106
cells/mL, or about 0.3 x 106 to about 0.5 x 106 cells/mL, or any intervening density of cells, so
long as the cells remain in log-phase growth.
         In certain embodiments, the cells are seeded into the cell culture at a density of about 0.1
x  106 cells/mL, about 0.2 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.3 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.4 x 106 cells/mL,
about 0.5 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.6 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.7 x 106 cells/mL, about 0.8 x 106
cells/mL, about 0.9 x 106 cells/mL, or about 1 x 107 cells/mL, or any intervening density of cells,
so long as the cells remain in log-phase growth.
         In some embodiments, the cells are seeded into a bioreactor, e.g., WAVE bioreactor, at a
density of about 0.1   x 106 cells/mL, about 0.5 x 106 cells/mL, about 1 x 106 cells/mL, about 2 x
106  cells/mL, about 3 x 106 cells/mL, /mL, about                         5x  10  cells/mL, about 6 x
106 cells/mL, about 7 x 106 cells/mL, about 8 x 106 cells/mL, about 9 x 10 cells/mL, or about           x
107 cells/mL or any intervening density of cells, so long as the cells remain in log-phase growth.
         In particular embodiments, the cells are seeded in a cell culture vessel comprising a
suitable cell culture medium for T cell expansion. Illustrative examples of suitable cell culture
media for T cell expansion include, but are not limited to T cell growth medium (TCGM), CTSTM
OpTmizerT M T Cell Expansion SFM (Life Technologies), CTS TM AIM V® Medium (Life
Technologies), RPMI 1640, Clicks, DMEM, MEM, a-MEM, F-12, X-Vivo 15 (Lonza), and X
Vivo 20 (Lonza) and/or additional hormones, growth factors, or cytokine(s) sufficient for the
growth and expansion of T cells. In a particular embodiment, the cell culture medium is TCGM.
In a certain embodiment, the cell culture media further comprises one or more factors including,
but not limited to serum (e.g., fetal bovine or human serum), interleukin-2 (IL-2), insulin, IFN-W

                                                  - 40
IL-4, IL-7, IL-21, GM-CSF, IL- 10, IL- 12, IL-15, TGF and TNF -por any combination
thereof
         In one embodiment, the cell culture medium may comprise one or more cytokines, e.g.,
such as IL-2, IL-7, and/or IL-15, or any suitable combination thereof. Illustrative examples of
suitable concentrations of each cytokine or the total concentration of cytokines includes about 25
IU/mL, about 50 IU/mL, about 75 IU/mL, about 100 IU/mL, about 125 IU/mL, about 150
IU/mL, about 175 IU/mL, about 200 IU/mL, about 250 IU/mL, about 300 IU/mL, about 350
IU/mL, about 400 IU/mL, about 450 IU/mL, or about 500 IU/mL or any intervening amount of
cytokine thereof In particular embodiments, the cell culture medium comprises about 100
IU/mL of each of, or in total of, IL-2, IL-I, and/or IL-15, or any combination thereof.
         In particular embodiments, the cell culture medium comprises about 250 IU/mL of each
of, or in total of, IL-2, IL-1, and/or IL-15, or any combination thereof.
         In particular embodiments, the T cell manufacturing methods contemplated herein
comprise expanding T cells for about 3 days to about 14 days, about 3 days to about 13 days,
about 3 days to about 12 days, about 3 days to about 11 days, about 3 days to about 10 days,
about 3 days to about 9 days, about 3 days to about 8 days, or about 3 to about 7 days, or about 5
to about 8 days or any intervening number of days. In certain embodiments, the T cell
manufacturing methods contemplated herein comprise expanding T cells for about 3 days, about
4 days, about 5 days, about 6 days, about 7 days, about 8 days, about 9 days, about 10 days, about
11 days, or about12 days. The expansion may be performed in the same vessel and/or type of
vessel for the entire expansion period or in different vessels and/or types of vessels for the
expansion period.
         In one embodiment, the T cell expansion is performed for about 5 days to about 8 days in
a cell culture bag.
         In one embodiment, the T cell expansion is performed for about 5 days to about 8 days in
a cell culture bag and then expansion is continued in a bioreactor, including but not limited to, a
WAVE or G-REX bioreactor. In a particular embodiment, expansion may be continued in the
bioreactor for about 1 day, about 2 days, about 3 days, about 4 days, or about 5 days or more.
         In another embodiment, the T cell expansion is performed for about 5 days to about 8
days in a bioreactor, including but not limited to, a WAVE bioreactor or G-REX bioreactor.

                                                       - 41
         The WAVE bioreactor allows for varying rates of rocking and at a variety of different
rocking angles. Illustrative rocking rates include, but are not limited to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 rocks per minute. In certain embodiments, the methods of
stimulation and expansion of the present invention provide for the angle of the rocking platform
to be set at 1.50, 20, 2.50, 30, 3.50, 40, 4.50, 50, 5.50, 60, 6.50, 70, 7.50, 80, 8.50, or 9.0.
         In one embodiment, the volume of the WAVE bioreactor is 2500 mL, the rocking rate is
about 6 or about 7 rpm and the angle is between about 7 and about 8.
         In one embodiment, cells are initially seeded in about 100 mL in a GREX bioreactor, and
about 200 mL of fresh growth media is added to the culture at days 3, 4, and 5. In certain
embodiments, additional media is added to the GREX bioreactor to bring the culture volume to
about IL at day 7.
         Cell counts and viability are checked daily or on any number of days, the cells or a
portion of the cells may be cryopreserved, and/or cells may be characterized by FACs analysis for
marker expression, e.g., CD3, CD4, CD8, CD28, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD62L, CD127, CD27,
CD197 and HLA-DR, transgene.
         In one embodiment, a population of T cells subjected to the manufacturing methods
contemplated herein is expanded at least 50 fold, at least 100 fold, at least 200 fold, at least 300
fold, at least 400 fold, at least 500 fold, at least 600 fold, at least 700 fold, at least 800 fold, at
least 900 fold, or at least 1000 fold, or more compared the starting population of T cells.
         8.       Recovery of Manufactured T Cell Compositions
         In particular embodiments, methods for manufacturing T cells contemplated herein
comprise a step of recovering the manufactured T cell compositions comprising harvesting and
washing the expanded cells in using a semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge, e.g., the Cobe 2991
cell processor, the Cell Saver 5, the Baxter CytoMate, LOVO, or the like.
         Prior to harvesting the expanded cells, pre-harvest sample aliquots may be taken to
establish cell counts, viability, cell characterization, e.g., FACs analysis, purity, and/or other
general release criteria for the cells. In addition, post-harvest sample aliquots may be taken to
establish cell counts and/or viability.
         The recovered T cell compositions are then transferred to one or more IV bags or other
suitable vessels, e.g., MACS® GMP Cell Expansion Bags, MACS® GMP Cell Differentiation

                                                 - 42
Bags, EXP-PakTM Cell Expansion Bio-Containers, VueLifeTM bags, KryoSureTM bags,
KryoVue TM bags, Lifecell@ bags, PermaLifeTM bags, X-Fold TM bags, Si-Culture TM bags, Origen
biomedical cryobags and VectraCellTM bags and cryopreserved in a controlled rate freezer as
discussed supra and elsewhere herein, until the cells are ready for use. In particular
embodiments, cells are frozen in 50% plasmalyte and 50% Cryostor 10; 50/40/10
(XVIVO/HABS/DMSO); or Cryostor 10.
        Bags (10 to 250 mL capacity) containing therapeutic T cell compositions are stored in
blood bank conditions in a monitored -80'C to -135'C. Infusion bags are stored in the freezer
until needed.
D.      ENGINEERED      T CELL RECEPTORS AND CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTORS
        The T cell manufacturing methods contemplated are particularly useful for expanding T
cells modified to express high affinity T cell receptors (engineered TCRs) or chimeric antigen
receptors (CARs) in a reliable and reproducible manner. In one embodiment, the T cell is
genetically modified to express one ore more engineered TCRs or CARs. As used herein, T cells
modified to express an engineered TCR or CAR contemplated herein may be referred to as,
"antigen-specific redirected T cells."
        1.      Engineered TCRs
        Naturally occurring T cell receptors comprise two subunits, an a-subunit and a -subunit,
each of which is a unique protein produced by recombination event in each T cell' s genome.
Libraries of TCRs may be screened for their selectivity to particular target antigens. In this
manner, natural TCRs, which have a high-avidity and reactivity toward target antigens may be
selected, cloned, and subsequently introduced into a population of T cells used for adoptive
immunotherapy.
        In one embodiment, T cells are modified by introducing a polynucleotide encoding a
subunit of a TCR that has the ability to form TCRs that confer specificity to T cells for tumor
cells expressing a target antigen. In particular embodiments, the subunits have one or more
amino acid substitutions, deletions, insertions, or modifications compared to the naturally
occurring subunit, so long as the subunits retain the ability to form TCRs conferring upon
transfected T cells the ability to home to target cells, and participate in immunologically-relevant

                                                - 43
cytokine signaling. The engineered TCRs preferably also bind target cells displaying the relevant
tumor-associated peptide with high avidity, and optionally mediate efficient killing of target cells
presenting the relevant peptide in vivo.
         The nucleic acids encoding engineered TCRs are preferably isolated from their natural
context in a (naturally-occurring) chromosome of a T cell, and can be incorporated into suitable
vectors as described elsewhere herein. Both the nucleic acids and the vectors comprising them
usefully can be transferred into a cell, which cell is preferably a T cell. The modified T cells are
then able to express both chains of a TCR encoded by the transduced nucleic acid or nucleic
acids. In preferred embodiments, the engineered TCR is an exogenous TCR because it is
introduced into T cells that do not normally express the particular TCR. The essential aspect of
the engineered TCRs is that it has high avidity for a tumor antigen presented by a major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) or similar immunological component. In contrast to
engineered TCRs, CARs are engineered to bind target antigens in an MHC independent manner.
         The protein encoded by the inventive nucleic acids can be expressed with additional
polypeptides attached to the amino-terminal or carboxyl-terminal portion of the inventive a-chain
or p-chain of a TCR so long as the attached additional polypeptide does not interfere with the
ability of the a-chain or p-chain to form a functional T cell receptor and the MHC dependent
antigen recognition.
         Antigens that are recognized by the engineered TCRs contemplated herein include, but
are not limited to cancer antigens, including antigens on both hematological cancers and solid
tumors. Illustrative antigens include, but are not limited to alpha folate receptor, 5T4, aV36
integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6,
CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family
including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal
AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA
A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-I Ra, IL
13Ra2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY
ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, and VEGFR2.

                                                 - 44
         2.       Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CARs)
         The T cell manufacturing methods contemplated herein include modifying T cells to
express one or more CARs as contemplated herein. In various embodiments, the present
invention provides T cells genetically engineered with vectors designed to express CARs
that redirect cytotoxicity toward tumor cells. CARs are molecules that combine antibody
based specificity for a target antigen (e.g., tumor antigen) with a T cell receptor-activating
intracellular domain to generate a chimeric protein that exhibits a specific anti-tumor cellular
immune activity. As used herein, the term, "chimeric," describes being composed of parts of
different proteins or DNAs from different origins.
         The CARs contemplated herein comprise an extracellular domain that binds to a
specific target antigen (also referred to as a binding domain or antigen-specific binding
domain), a transmembrane domain and an intracellular signaling domain. The main
characteristic of CARs are their ability to redirect immune effector cell specificity, thereby
triggering proliferation, cytokine production, phagocytosis or production of molecules that
can mediate cell death of the target antigen expressing cell in a major histocompatibility
(MHC) independent manner, exploiting the cell specific targeting abilities of monoclonal
antibodies, soluble ligands or cell specific coreceptors.
         In particular embodiments, a CAR comprises an extracellular binding domain including
but not limited to an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof, a tethered ligand, or the
extracellular domain of a coreceptor, that specifically binds a target antigen that is a tumor
associated antigen (TAA) or a tumor-specific antigen (TSA). In certain embodiments, the TAA
or TSA is expressed on a blood cancer cell. In another embodiment, the TAA or TSA is
expressed on a cell of a solid tumor. In particular embodiments, the solid tumor is a
glioblastoma, a non-small cell lung cancer, a lung cancer other than a non-small cell lung cancer,
breast cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer, a
cancer of the spleen, skin cancer, a brain cancer other than a glioblastoma, a kidney cancer, a
thyroid cancer, or the like.
         In particular embodiments, the TAA or TSA is selected from the group consisting of
alpha folate receptor, 5T4, av36 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22,
CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171,

                                                 - 45
CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40,
EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA
A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY
ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-1 1Rca, IL-13Ra2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin,
Muc1, Muc 16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX,
Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, and VEGFR2.
                 a.      Binding Domain
        In particular embodiments, CARs contemplated herein comprise an extracellular binding
domain that specifically binds to a target polypeptide, e.g, target antigen, expressed on tumor cell.
As used herein, the terms, "binding domain," "extracellular domain," "extracellular
binding domain," "antigen-specific binding domain," and "extracellular
antigen specific binding domain," are used interchangeably and provide a CAR with
the ability to specifically bind to the target antigen of interest. A binding domain may
comprise any protein, polypeptide, oligopeptide, or peptide that possesses the ability to
specifically recognize and bind to a biological molecule (e.g., a cell surface receptor or tumor
protein, lipid, polysaccharide, or other cell surface target molecule, or component thereof). A
binding domain includes any naturally occurring, synthetic, semi-synthetic, or recombinantly
produced binding partner for a biological molecule of interest.
        In particular embodiments, the extracellular binding domain of a CAR comprises an
antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof. An "antibody" refers to a binding agent that is a
polypeptide comprising at least a light chain or heavy chain immunoglobulin variable region
which specifically recognizes and binds an epitope of a target antigen, such as a peptide, lipid,
polysaccharide, or nucleic acid containing an antigenic determinant, such as those recognized by
an immune cell. Antibodies include antigen binding fragments thereof. The term also includes
genetically engineered forms such as chimeric antibodies (for example, humanized murine
antibodies), heteroconjugate antibodies (such as, bispecific antibodies) and antigen binding
fragments thereof. See also, Pierce Catalog and Handbook, 1994-1995 (Pierce Chemical Co.,
Rockford, IL); Kuby, J, Immunology, 3rd Ed., W. H. Freeman & Co., New York, 1997.

                                               - 46
        In particular embodiments, the target antigen is an epitope of an alpha folate receptor,
5T4, avJ 6 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44,
CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR,
EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM,
FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA
A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY
ESO-1, IL-1 1Ra, IL-13RaL2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM,
NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs,
or VEGFR2 polypeptide.
        Light and heavy chain variable regions contain a "framework" region interrupted by three
hypervariable regions, also called "complementarity-determining regions" or "CDRs." The
CDRs can be defined or identified by conventional methods, such as by sequence according to
Kabat et al (Wu, TT and Kabat, E. A., J Exp Med. 132(2):211-50, (1970); Borden, P. and Kabat
E. A., PNAS, 84: 2440-2443 (1987); (see, Kabat et al., Sequences ofProteins ofImmunological
Interest,U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 1991, which is hereby incorporated by
reference), or by structure according to Chothia et al (Choithia, C. and Lesk, A.M., J Mol. Biol.,
196(4): 901-917 (1987), Choithia, C. et al, Nature, 342: 877 - 883 (1989)).
        The sequences of the framework regions of different light or heavy chains are relatively
conserved within a species, such as humans. The framework region of an antibody, that is the
combined framework regions of the constituent light and heavy chains, serves to position and
align the CDRs in three-dimensional space. The CDRs are primarily responsible for binding to
an epitope of an antigen. The CDRs of each chain are typically referred to as CDR1, CDR2, and
CDR3, numbered sequentially starting from the N-terminus, and are also typically identified by
the chain in which the particular CDR is located. Thus, the CDRs located in the variable domain
of the heavy chain of the antibody are referred to as CDRH 1, CDRH2, and CDRH3, whereas the
CDRs located in the variable domain of the light chain of the antibody are referred to as CDRL1,
CDRL2, and CDRL3. Antibodies with different specificities (i.e., different combining sites for
different antigens) have different CDRs. Although it is the CDRs that vary from antibody to
antibody, only a limited number of amino acid positions within the CDRs are directly involved in

                                                - 47
antigen binding. These positions within the CDRs are called specificity determining residues
(SDRs).
        References to "VH" or "VH" refer to the variable region of an immunoglobulin heavy
chain, including that of an antibody, Fv, scFv, dsFv, Fab, or other antibody fragment as disclosed
herein. References to "VL" or "VL" refer to the variable region of an immunoglobulin light
chain, including that of an antibody, Fv, scFv, dsFv, Fab, or other antibody fragment as disclosed
herein.
        A "monoclonal antibody" is an antibody produced by a single clone of B lymphocytes or
by a cell into which the light and heavy chain genes of a single antibody have been transfected.
Monoclonal antibodies are produced by methods known to those of skill in the art, for instance by
making hybrid antibody-forming cells from a fusion of myeloma cells with immune spleen cells.
Monoclonal antibodies include humanized monoclonal antibodies.
        A "chimeric antibody" has framework residues from one species, such as human, and
CDRs (which generally confer antigen binding) from another species, such as a mouse. In
particular preferred embodiments, a CAR contemplated herein comprises antigen-specific
binding domain that is a chimeric antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof
        In certain preferred embodiments, the antibody is a humanized antibody (such as a
humanized monoclonal antibody) that specifically binds to a surface protein on a tumor cell. A
"humanized" antibody is an immunoglobulin including a human framework region and one or
more CDRs from a non-human (for example a mouse, rat, or synthetic) immunoglobulin.
Humanized antibodies can be constructed by means of genetic engineering (see for example, U.S.
Patent No. 5,585,089).
        In particular embodiments, the extracellular binding domain of a CAR comprises an
antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof, including but not limited to a Camel Ig (a camelid
antibody (VHH)), Ig NAR, Fab fragments, Fab' fragments, F(ab)'2 fragments, F(ab)'3 fragments,
Fv, single chain Fv antibody ("scFv"), bis-scFv, (scFv)2, minibody, diabody, triabody, tetrabody,
disulfide stabilized Fv protein ("dsFv"), and single-domain antibody (sdAb, Nanobody).
        "Camel Ig" or "camelid VHH" as used herein refers to the smallest known antigen
binding unit of a heavy chain antibody (Koch-Nolte, et al, FASEB J., 21: 3490-3498 (2007)). A
"heavy chain antibody" or a "camelid antibody" refers to an antibody that contains two VH

                                                  -48
domains and no light chains (Riechmann L. et al, J. Immunol. Methods 231:25-38 (1999);
W094/04678; W094/25591; U.S. Patent No. 6,005,079).
        "IgNAR" of "immunoglobulin new antigen receptor" refers to class of antibodies from
the shark immune repertoire that consist of homodimers of one variable new antigen receptor
(VNAR) domain and five constant new antigen receptor (CNAR) domains.
        Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen-binding fragments, called
"Fab" fragments, each with a single antigen-binding site, and a residual "Fc" fragment, whose
name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. The Fab fragment contains the heavy- and light
chain variable domains and also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the first
constant domain (CH1) of the heavy chain. Fab'fragments differ from Fab fragments by the
addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CH1 domain including one
or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab'-SH is the designation herein for Fab'in
which the cysteine residue(s) of the constant domains bear a free thiol group. F(ab)2 antibody
fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab'fragments which have hinge cysteines
between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known.
        "Fv" is the minimum antibody fragment which contains a complete antigen-binding site.
In a single-chain Fv (scFv) species, one heavy- and one light-chain variable domain can be
covalently linked by a flexible peptide linker such that the light and heavy chains can associate in
a "dimeric" structure analogous to that in a two-chain Fv species.
        The term "diabodies" refers to antibody fragments with two antigen-binding sites, which
fragments comprise a heavy-chain variable domain (VH) connected to a light-chain variable
domain (VL) in the same polypeptide chain (VH-VL). By using a linker that is too short to allow
pairing between the two domains on the same chain, the domains are forced to pair with the
complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen-binding sites. Diabodies may
be bivalent or bispecific. Diabodies are described more fully in, for example, EP 404,097; WO
1993/01161; Hudson et al., Nat. Med. 9:129-134 (2003); and Hollinger et al., PNAS USA 90:
6444-6448 (1993). Triabodies and tetrabodies are also described in Hudson et al., Nat. Med.
9:129-134 (2003).

                                                    - 49
           "Single domain antibody" or "sdAb" or "nanobody" refers to an antibody fragment that
consists of the variable region of an antibody heavy chain (VH domain) or the variable region of
an antibody light chain (VL domain) (Holt, L., et al, Trends in Biotechnology, 21(11): 484-490).
           "Single-chain Fv" or "scFv" antibody fragments comprise the VH and VL domains of
antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain and in either
orientation (e.g., VL-VH or VH-VL). Generally, the scFv polypeptide further comprises a
polypeptide linker between the VH and VL domains which enables the scFv to form the desired
structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv, see, e.g., Pluckthiin, in The Pharmacologyof
MonoclonalAntibodies, vol. 113, Rosenburg and Moore eds., (Springer-Verlag, New York,
1994), pp. 269-315.
           In a certain embodiment, the scFv binds an alpha folate receptor, 5T4, av36 integrin,
BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6, CD44v7/8,
CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family including
ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal AchR, FRa,
GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1,
HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-1l1Ra., IL-13Ra2,
Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc 16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1,
PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, or VEGFR2 polypeptide.
                    b.      Linkers
           In certain embodiments, the CARs contemplated herein may comprise linker residues
between the various domains, e.g., between VH and VL domains, added for appropriate spacing
and conformation of the molecule. CARs contemplated herein, may comprise one, two, three,
four, or five or more linkers. In particular embodiments, the length of a linker is about 1 to
about 25 amino acids, about 5 to about 20 amino acids, or about 10 to about 20 amino acids, or
any intervening length of amino acids. In some embodiments, the linker is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, or more amino acids long.
           Illustrative examples of linkers include glycine polymers (G)"; glycine-serine polymers
(G1 .5 S1 .5)., where n is an integer of at least one, two, three, four, or five; glycine-alanine
polymers; alanine-serine polymers; and other flexible linkers known in the art. Glycine and

                                                   - 50
glycine-serine polymers are relatively unstructured, and therefore may be able to serve as a
neutral tether between domains of fusion proteins such as the CARs described herein. Glycine
accesses significantly more phi-psi space than even alanine, and is much less restricted than
residues with longer side chains (see Scheraga,Rev. ComputationalChem. 11173-142 (1992)).
The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize that design of a CAR in particular embodiments
can include linkers that are all or partially flexible, such that the linker can include a flexible
linker as well as one or more portions that confer less flexible structure to provide for a desired
CAR structure.
         Other exemplary linkers include, but are not limited to the following amino acid
sequences: GGG; DGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 1); TGEKP (SEQ ID NO: 2) (see, e.g., Liu et al.,
PNAS 5525-5530 (1997)); GGRR (SEQ ID NO: 3) (Pomerantz et al. 1995, supra); (GGGGS)n
wherein   =  1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 (SEQ ID NO: 4) (Kim et al., PNAS 93, 1156-1160 (1996.);
EGKSSGSGSESKVD (SEQ ID NO:5) (Chaudhary et al., 1990, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
87:1066-1070); KESGSVSSEQLAQFRSLD (SEQ ID NO:6) (Bird et al., 1988, Science
242:423-426), GGRRGGGS (SEQ ID NO:7); LRQRDGERP (SEQ ID NO:8);
LRQKDGGGSERP (SEQ ID NO:9); LRQKd(GGGS) 2 ERP (SEQ ID NO:10). Alternatively,
flexible linkers can be rationally designed using a computer program capable of modeling both
DNA-binding sites and the peptides themselves (Desjarlais & Berg, PNAS 90:2256-2260
(1993), PNAS 91:11099-11103 (1994) or by phage display methods.
         In particular embodiments a CAR comprises a scFV that further comprises a variable
region linking sequence. A "variable region linking sequence," is an amino acid sequence that
connects a heavy chain variable region to a light chain variable region and provides a spacer
function compatible with interaction of the two sub-binding domains so that the resulting
polypeptide retains a specific binding affinity to the same target molecule as an antibody that
comprises the same light and heavy chain variable regions. In one embodiment, the variable
region linking sequence is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
23, 24, 25, or more amino acids long. In a particular embodiment, the variable region linking
sequence comprises a glycine-serine polymer (G1 .5 S1 .5 )n, where n is an integer of at least 1, 2, 3,
4, or 5. In another embodiment, the variable region linking sequence comprises a (G4 S) 3 amino
acid linker.

                                               -51
                  c.     Spacer domain
         In particular embodiments, the binding domain of the CAR is followed by one or more
"spacer domains," which refers to the region that moves the antigen binding domain away
from the effector cell surface to enable proper cell/cell contact, antigen binding and activation
(Patel etal., Gene Therapy, 1999; 6: 412-419). The spacer domain may be derived
either from a natural, synthetic, semi-synthetic, or recombinant source.                 In
certain embodiments, a spacer domain is a portion of an immunoglobulin, including, but not
limited to, one or more heavy chain constant regions, e.g., CH2 and CH3. The spacer domain can
include the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring immunoglobulin hinge region or an
altered immunoglobulin hinge region.
         In one embodiment, the spacer domain comprises the CH2 and CH3 of IgGI.
                  d.     Hinge domain
         The binding domain of the CAR is generally followed by one or more "hinge domains,"
which plays a role in positioning the antigen binding domain away from the effector cell
surface to enable proper cell/cell contact, antigen binding and activation. A CAR generally
comprises one or more hinge domains between the binding domain and the transmembrane
domain (TM). The hinge domain may be derived either from a natural,
synthetic, semi-synthetic, or recombinant source.              The hinge domain can include the
amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring immunoglobulin hinge region or an altered
immunoglobulin hinge region.
         Illustrative hinge domains suitable for use in the CARs described herein
include the hinge region derived from the extracellular regions of type 1 membrane proteins
such as CD8a, CD4, CD28 and CD7, which may be wild-type hinge regions from these
molecules or may be altered. In another embodiment, the hinge domain comprises a CD8a
hinge region.
                  e.     Transmembrane (TM) Domain
         The "transmembrane domain" is the portion of the CAR that fuses the extracellular
binding portion and intracellular signaling domain and anchors the CAR to the plasma

                                                  - 52
membrane of the immune effector cell. The TM domain may be derived either from a natural,
synthetic, semi-synthetic, or recombinant source.
         Illustrative TM domains may be derived from (i.e., comprise at least the transmembrane
region(s) of) the alpha, beta or zeta chain of the T-cell receptor, CD3 epsilon, CD3 zeta, CD4,
CD5, CD9, CD 16, CD22, CD27, CD28, CD33, CD37, CD45, CD64, CD80, CD86, CD 134,
CD 137, and CD 154.
         In one embodiment, the CARs contemplated herein comprise a TM domain derived
from CD8a In another embodiment, a CAR contemplated herein comprises a TM domain
derived from CD8mand a short oligo- or polypeptide linker, preferably between 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, or 10 amino acids in length that links the TM domain and the intracellular signaling
domain of the CAR. A glycine-serine linker provides a particularly suitable linker.
                  f       IntracellularSignalingDomain
         In particular embodiments, CARs contemplated herein comprise an intracellular signaling
domain. An "intracellular signaling domain," refers to the part of a CAR that participates in
transducing the message of effective CAR binding to a target antigen into the interior of the
immune effector cell to elicit effector cell function, e.g., activation, cytokine production,
proliferation and cytotoxic activity, including the release of cytotoxic factors to the CAR-bound
target cell, or other cellular responses elicited with antigen binding to the extracellular CAR
domain.
         The term "effector function" refers to a specialized function of the cell. Effector function
of the T cell, for example, may be cytolytic activity or help or activity including the secretion of a
cytokine. Thus, the term "intracellular signaling domain" refers to the portion of a protein which
transduces the effector function signal and that directs the cell to perform a specialized function.
While usually the entire intracellular signaling domain can be employed, in many cases it is not
necessary to use the entire domain. To the extent that a truncated portion of an intracellular
signaling domain is used, such truncated portion may be used in place of the entire domain as
long as it transduces the effector function signal. The term intracellular signaling domain is
meant to include any truncated portion of the intracellular signaling domain sufficient to
transducing effector function signal.

                                                - 53
         It is known that signals generated through the TCR alone are insufficient for full
activation of the T cell and that a secondary or costimulatory signal is also required. Thus, T cell
activation can be said to be mediated by two distinct classes of intracellular signaling domains:
primary signaling domains that initiate antigen-dependent primary activation through the TCR
(e.g., a TCR/CD3 complex) and costimulatory signaling domains that act in an antigen
independent manner to provide a secondary or costimulatory signal. In preferred embodiments, a
CAR contemplated herein comprises an intracellular signaling domain that comprises one or
more "costimulatory signaling domain" and a "primary signaling domain."
         Primary signaling domains regulate primary activation of the TCR complex either in a
stimulatory way, or in an inhibitory way. Primary signaling domains that act in a stimulatory
manner may contain signaling motifs which are known as immunoreceptor tyrosine-based
activation motifs or ITAMs.
         Illustrative examples of ITAM containing primary signaling domains that are of particular
use in the invention include those derived from TCRQ, FcRy, FcR, CD3y, CD36, CD3c, CD3Q,
CD22, CD79a, CD79b, and CD66d. In particular preferred embodiments, a CAR comprises a
CD3Cprimary signaling domain and one or more costimulatory signaling domains. The
intracellular primary signaling and costimulatory signaling domains may be linked in any order in
tandem to the carboxyl terminus of the transmembrane domain.
         CARs contemplated herein comprise one or more costimulatory signaling domains to
enhance the efficacy and expansion of T cells expressing CAR receptors. As used herein, the
term, "costimulatory signaling domain," or "costimulatory domain", refers to an intracellular
signaling domain of a costimulatory molecule.
         Illustrative examples of such costimulatory molecules include CD27, CD28, 4-1BB
(CD137), OX40 (CD134), CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS (CD278), CTLA4, LFA-1, CD2, CD7,
LIGHT, TRIM, LCK3, SLAM, DAP10, LAG3, HVEM and NKD2C, and CD83. In one
embodiment, a CAR comprises one or more costimulatory signaling domains selected from the
group consisting of CD28, CD137, and CD134, and a CD3Cprimary signaling domain.
         In one embodiment, a CAR comprises an scFv that binds an alpha folate receptor, 5T4,
avP6 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44,
CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR,

                                               - 54
EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM,
FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA
A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY
ESO-1, IL-1 1Ra, IL-13Ra2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM,
NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs,
or VEGFR2 polypeptide; a transmembrane domain derived from a polypeptide selected from
the group consisting of: CD8gCD4, CD45, PD1, and CD152; and o ne or more intracellular
costimulatory signaling domains selected from the group consisting of: CD28, CD54, CD134,
CD137, CD152, CD273, CD274, and CD278; and a CD3Cp rimary signaling domain.
         In another embodiment, a CAR comprises an scFv that binds an alpha folate receptor,
5T4, av36 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44,
CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR,
EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM,
FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA
A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY
ESO-1, IL-1 1Ra, IL-13Ra2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM,
NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs,
or VEGFR2 polypeptide; a hinge domain selected from the group consisting of: IgGI
hinge/CH2/CH3 and CD8xand CD8pa transmembrane d             omain derived from a polypeptide
selected from the group consisting of: CD8gCD4,       CD45, PD1, and CD152; and one or more
intracellular costimulatory signaling domains selected from the group consisting of: CD28,
CD 134, and CD 137; and a CD3Cprimary signaling doma in.
         In yet another embodiment, a CAR comprises an scFv, further comprising a linker, that
binds an alpha folate receptor, 5T4, av36 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20,
CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138,
CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2,
EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3),
HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA
A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-1l1Ra, IL-13Ru2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa,
Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc 16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA,

                                                 - 55
RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, or VEGFR2 polypeptide; a hinge domain selected from
the group consisting of: IgGI hinge/CH2/CH3 and CD8pand CD8pa transmembrane
domain comprising a TM domain derived from a polypeptide selected from the group
consisting of: CD8gCD4, CD45, PD1, and CD152, an d a short oligo- or polypeptide linker,
preferably between 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 amino acids in length that links the TM domain
to the intracellular signaling domain of the CAR; and one or more intracellular costimulatory
signaling domains selected from the group consisting of: CD28, CD134, and CD137; and a
CD3Cprimary signaling domain.
         In a particular embodiment, a CAR comprises an scFv that binds an alpha folate
receptor, 5T4, avc 6 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33,
CD44, CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4,
EGFR, EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2,
EpCAM, FAP, fetal AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA
A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY
ESO-1, IL-1 1Rca, IL-13Ra2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM,
NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs,
or VEGFR2 polypeptide; a hinge domain comprising a CD8cpolypeptide; a CD8a
transmembrane domain comprising a polypeptide linker of about 3 amino acids; one or more
intracellular costimulatory signaling domains selected from the group consisting of: CD28,
CD134, and CD137; and a CD3Cprimary signaling dom ain.
E.       POLYPEPTIDES
         The present invention contemplates, in part, engineered TCR and CAR polypeptides and
fragments thereof, cells and compositions comprising the same, and vectors that express
polypeptides. "Polypeptide," "polypeptide fragment," "peptide" and "protein" are used
interchangeably, and refer to a recombinant, synthetic, or non-natural amino acid polymer.
Polypeptides are not limited to a specific length, e.g., they may comprise a full length protein
sequence or a fragment of a full length protein, and may include post-translational modifications
of the polypeptide, for example, glycosylations, acetylations, phosphorylations and the like, as
well as other modifications known in the art, both naturally occurring and non-naturally

                                                  - 56
occurring. In various embodiments, the polypeptides contemplated herein comprise a signal (or
leader) sequence at the N-terminal end of the protein, which cotranslationally or post
translationally directs transfer of the protein. Illustrative examples of suitable signal sequences
useful in disclosed herein include, but are not limited to the IgGI heavy chain signal polypeptide,
a CD8csignal polypeptide, or a human GM -CSF receptor alpha signal polypeptide. Polypeptides
can be prepared using any of a variety of well known recombinant and/or synthetic techniques.
Polypeptides contemplated herein specifically encompass the CARs of the present disclosure, or
sequences that have deletions from, additions to, and/or substitutions of one or more amino acid
of a polypeptide as contemplated herein.
         Polypeptides include "polypeptide variants." Polypeptide variants may differ from a
naturally occurring polypeptide in one or more substitutions, deletions, additions and/or
insertions. Such variants may be naturally occurring or may be synthetically generated, for
example, by modifying one or more of the above polypeptide sequences. For example, in
particular embodiments, it may be desirable to improve the binding affinity and/or other
biological properties of the engineered TCRs or CARs by introducing one or more substitutions,
deletions, additions and/or insertions. Preferably, polypeptides of the invention include
polypeptides having at least about 65%, 70%, 75%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% amino acid
identity thereto.
         Polypeptides include "polypeptide fragments." Polypeptide fragments refer to a
polypeptide, which can be monomeric or multimeric, that has an amino-terminal deletion, a
carboxyl-terminal deletion, and/or an internal deletion or substitution of a naturally-occurring or
recombinantly-produced polypeptide. In certain embodiments, a polypeptide fragment can
comprise an amino acid chain at least 5 to about 500 amino acids long. It will be appreciated that
in certain embodiments, fragments are at least 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
46,47,48,49,50,55,60,65,70,75,80,85,90,95,100,110,150,200,250,300,350,400,or
450 amino acids long.
         The polypeptide may also be fused in-frame or conjugated to a linker or other sequence
for ease of synthesis, purification or identification of the polypeptide (e.g., poly-His), or to
enhance binding of the polypeptide to a solid support.

                                                  - 57
        As noted above, polypeptides contemplated herein may be altered in various ways
including amino acid substitutions, deletions, truncations, and insertions. Methods for such
manipulations are generally known in the art. For example, amino acid sequence variants of a
reference polypeptide can be prepared by mutations in the DNA. Methods for mutagenesis and
nucleotide sequence alterations are well known in the art. See, for example, Kunkel (1985, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 82: 488-492), Kunkel et al., (1987, Methods in Enzymol, 154: 367-382),
U.S. Pat. No. 4,873,192, Watson, J. D. et al., (MolecularBiology of the Gene, Fourth Edition,
Benjamin/Cummings, Menlo Park, Calif., 1987) and the references cited therein. Guidance as to
appropriate amino acid substitutions that do not affect biological activity of the protein of interest
may be found in the model of Dayhoff et al., (1978) Atlas ofProtein Sequence and Structure
(Natl. Biomed. Res. Found., Washington, D.C.).
        In certain embodiments, a variant will contain conservative substitutions. A
"conservative substitution" is one in which an amino acid is substituted for another amino acid
that has similar properties, such that one skilled in the art of peptide chemistry would expect the
secondary structure and hydropathic nature of the polypeptide to be substantially unchanged.
Modifications may be made in the structure of the polynucleotides and polypeptides of the
present invention and still obtain a functional molecule that encodes a variant or derivative
polypeptide with desirable characteristics.
        Polypeptide variants further include glycosylated forms, aggregative conjugates with
other molecules, and covalent conjugates with unrelated chemical moieties (e.g., pegylated
molecules). Covalent variants can be prepared by linking functionalities to groups which are
found in the amino acid chain or at the N- or C-terminal residue, as is known in the art. Variants
also include allelic variants, species variants, and muteins. Truncations or deletions of regions
which do not affect functional activity of the proteins are also variants.
        In one embodiment, where expression of two or more polypeptides is desired, the
polynucleotide sequences encoding them can be separated by and IRES sequence as discussed
elsewhere herein. In another embodiment, two or more polypeptides can be expressed as a fusion
protein that comprises one or more self-cleaving polypeptide sequences.
        Polypeptides of the present invention include fusion polypeptides. In preferred
embodiments, fusion polypeptides and polynucleotides encoding fusion polypeptides are

                                                   - 58
provided. Fusion polypeptides and fusion proteins refer to a polypeptide having at least two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten or more polypeptide segments. Fusion
polypeptides are typically linked C-terminus to N-terminus, although they can also be linked C
terminus to C-terminus, N-terminus to N-terminus, or N-terminus to C-terminus. The
polypeptides of the fusion protein can be in any order or a specified order. Fusion polypeptides
or fusion proteins can also include conservatively modified variants, polymorphic variants,
alleles, mutants, subsequences, and interspecies homologs, so long as the desired transcriptional
activity of the fusion polypeptide is preserved. Fusion polypeptides may be produced by
chemical synthetic methods or by chemical linkage between the two moieties or may generally be
prepared using other standard techniques. Ligated DNA sequences comprising the fusion
polypeptide are operably linked to suitable transcriptional or translational control elements as
discussed elsewhere herein.
         In one embodiment, a fusion partner comprises a sequence that assists in expressing the
protein (an expression enhancer) at higher yields than the native recombinant protein. Other
fusion partners may be selected so as to increase the solubility of the protein or to enable the
protein to be targeted to desired intracellular compartments or to facilitate transport of the fusion
protein through the cell membrane.
         Fusion polypeptides may further comprise a polypeptide cleavage signal between each of
the polypeptide domains described herein. In addition, polypeptide site can be put into any linker
peptide sequence. Exemplary polypeptide cleavage signals include polypeptide cleavage
recognition sites such as protease cleavage sites, nuclease cleavage sites (e.g., rare restriction
enzyme recognition sites, self-cleaving ribozyme recognition sites), and self-cleaving viral
oligopeptides (see deFelipe and Ryan, 2004. Traffic, 5(8); 616-26).
         Suitable protease cleavages sites and self-cleaving peptides are known to the skilled
person (see, e.g., in Ryan et al., 1997. J Gener. Virol. 78, 699-722; Scymczak et al. (2004)
Nature Biotech. 5, 589-594). Exemplary protease cleavage sites include, but are not limited to
the cleavage sites of potyvirus NIa proteases (e.g., tobacco etch virus protease), potyvirus HC
proteases, potyvirus P1 (P35) proteases, byovirus NIa proteases, byovirus RNA-2-encoded
proteases, aphthovirus L proteases, enterovirus 2A proteases, rhinovirus 2A proteases, picoma 3C
proteases, comovirus 24K proteases, nepovirus 24K proteases, RTSV (rice tungro spherical

                                                 - 59
virus) 3C-like protease, PYVF (parsnip yellow fleck virus) 3C-like protease, heparin, thrombin,
factor Xa and enterokinase. Due to its high cleavage stringency, TEV (tobacco etch virus)
protease cleavage sites are preferred in one embodiment, e.g., EXXYXQ(G/S) (SEQ ID NO: 11),
for example, ENLYFQG (SEQ ID NO:12) and ENLYFQS (SEQ ID NO:13), wherein X
represents any amino acid (cleavage by TEV occurs between       Q and G or Q and S).
        In a particular embodiment, self-cleaving peptides include those polypeptide sequences
obtained from potyvirus and cardiovirus 2A peptides, FMDV (foot-and-mouth disease virus),
equine rhinitis A virus, Thosea asigna virus and porcine teschovirus.
        In certain embodiments, the self-cleaving polypeptide site comprises a 2A or 2A-like site,
sequence or domain (Donnelly et al., 2001. J Gen. Virol. 82:1027-1041).
F.      POLYNUCLEOTIDES
        In particular embodiments, polynucleotides encoding one or more engineered TCR or
CAR polypeptides contemplated herein are provided. As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide"
or "nucleic acid" refers to messenger RNA (mRNA), RNA, genomic RNA (gRNA), plus strand
RNA (RNA(+)), minus strand RNA (RNA(-)), genomic DNA (gDNA), complementary DNA
(cDNA), recombinant DNA, synthetic DNA, or non-naturally occurring DNA. Polynucleotides
include single and double stranded polynucleotides. Preferably, polynucleotides of the invention
include polynucleotides or variants having at least about 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to any of the reference
sequences described herein (see, e.g., Sequence Listing), typically where the variant maintains at
least one biological activity of the reference sequence. In various illustrative embodiments, the
present invention contemplates, in part, polynucleotides comprising expression vectors, viral
vectors, and transfer plasmids, and compositions, and cells comprising the same.
        In particular embodiments, polynucleotides are provided by this invention that encode at
least about 5, 10, 25, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 500, 1000, 1250, 1500, 1750, or 2000
or more contiguous amino acid residues of a polypeptide of the invention, as well as all
intermediate lengths. It will be readily understood that "intermediate lengths, " in this context,
means any length between the quoted values, such as 6, 7, 8, 9, etc., 101, 102, 103, etc.; 151, 152,
153, etc.; 201, 202, 203, etc.

                                                  - 60
         As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide variant" and "variant" and the like refer to
polynucleotides displaying substantial sequence identity with a reference polynucleotide
sequence or polynucleotides that hybridize with a reference sequence under stringent conditions
that are defined hereinafter. These terms include polynucleotides in which one or more
nucleotides have been added or deleted, or replaced with different nucleotides compared to a
reference polynucleotide. In this regard, it is well understood in the art that certain alterations
inclusive of mutations, additions, deletions and substitutions can be made to a reference
polynucleotide whereby the altered polynucleotide retains the biological function or activity of
the reference polynucleotide.
         The recitations "sequence identity" or, for example, comprising a "sequence 50%
identical to," as used herein, refer to the extent that sequences are identical on a nucleotide-by
nucleotide basis or an amino acid-by-amino acid basis over a window of comparison. Thus, a
"percentage of sequence identity" may be calculated by comparing two optimally aligned
sequences over the window of comparison, determining the number of positions at which the
identical nucleic acid base (e.g., A, T, C, G, I) or the identical amino acid residue (e.g., Ala, Pro,
Ser, Thr, Gly, Val, Leu, Ile, Phe, Tyr, Trp, Lys, Arg, His, Asp, Glu, Asn, Gln, Cys and Met)
occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions, dividing the number of
matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of comparison (i.e., the
window size), and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.
Included are nucleotides and polypeptides having at least about 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%,
75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to any of the
reference sequences described herein, typically where the polypeptide variant maintains at least
one biological activity of the reference polypeptide.
         Terms used to describe sequence relationships between two or more polynucleotides or
polypeptides include "reference sequence," "comparison window," "sequence identity,"
"percentage of sequence identity," and "substantial identity". A "reference sequence" is at least
12 but frequently 15 to 18 and often at least 25 monomer units, inclusive of nucleotides and
amino acid residues, in length. Because two polynucleotides may each comprise (1) a sequence
(i.e., only a portion of the complete polynucleotide sequence) that is similar between the two
polynucleotides, and (2) a sequence that is divergent between the two polynucleotides, sequence

                                                - 61
comparisons between two (or more) polynucleotides are typically performed by comparing
sequences of the two polynucleotides over a "comparison window" to identify and compare local
regions of sequence similarity. A "comparison window" refers to a conceptual segment of at
least 6 contiguous positions, usually about 50 to about 100, more usually about 100 to about 150
in which a sequence is compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous
positions after the two sequences are optimally aligned. The comparison window may comprise
additions or deletions (i.e., gaps) of about 20% or less as compared to the reference sequence
(which does not comprise additions or deletions) for optimal alignment of the two sequences.
Optimal alignment of sequences for aligning a comparison window may be conducted by
computerized implementations of algorithms (GAP, BESTFIT, FASTA, and TFASTA in the
Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Release 7.0, Genetics Computer Group, 575 Science
Drive Madison, WI, USA) or by inspection and the best alignment (i.e., resulting in the highest
percentage homology over the comparison window) generated by any of the various methods
selected. Reference also may be made to the BLAST family of programs as for example
disclosed by Altschul et al., 1997, Nucl. Acids Res. 25:3389. A detailed discussion of sequence
analysis can be found in Unit 19.3 of Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology,
John Wiley & Sons Inc, 1994-1998, Chapter 15.
         The polynucleotides of the present invention, regardless of the length of the coding
sequence itself, may be combined with other DNA sequences, such as promoters and/or
enhancers, untranslated regions (UTRs), Kozak sequences, polyadenylation signals, additional
restriction enzyme sites, multiple cloning sites, internal ribosomal entry sites (IRES),
recombinase recognition sites (e.g., LoxP, FRT, and Att sites), termination codons, transcriptional
termination signals, and polynucleotides encoding self-cleaving polypeptides, epitope tags, as
disclosed elsewhere herein or as known in the art, such that their overall length may vary
considerably. It is therefore contemplated that a polynucleotide fragment of almost any length
may be employed, with the total length preferably being limited by the ease of preparation and
use in the intended recombinant DNA protocol.
         Polynucleotides can be prepared, manipulated and/or expressed using any of a variety of
well established techniques known and available in the art. In order to express a desired
polypeptide, a nucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide, can be inserted into appropriate

                                                 - 62
vector. Examples of vectors are plasmid, autonomously replicating sequences, and transposable
elements. Additional exemplary vectors include, without limitation, plasmids, phagemids,
cosmids, artificial chromosomes such as yeast artificial chromosome (YAC), bacterial artificial
chromosome (BAC), or P1 -derived artificial chromosome (PAC), bacteriophages such as lambda
phage or M13 phage, and animal viruses. Examples of categories of animal viruses useful as
vectors include, without limitation, retrovirus (including lentivirus), adenovirus, adeno-associated
virus, herpesvirus (e.g., herpes simplex virus), poxvirus, baculovirus, papillomavirus, and
papovavirus (e.g., SV40). Examples of expression vectors are pClneo vectors (Promega) for
expression in mammalian cells; pLenti4/V5-DEST TM, pLenti6/V5-DEST TM, and pLenti6.2/V5
GW/lacZ (Invitrogen) for lentivirus-mediated gene transfer and expression in mammalian cells.
In particular embodiments, he coding sequences of the chimeric proteins disclosed herein can be
ligated into such expression vectors for the expression of the chimeric protein in mammalian
cells.
         The "control elements" or "regulatory sequences" present in an expression vector are
those non-translated regions of the vector-origin of replication, selection cassettes, promoters,
enhancers, translation initiation signals (Shine Dalgamo sequence or Kozak sequence) introns, a
polyadenylation sequence, 5' and 3' untranslated regions-which interact with host cellular
proteins to carry out transcription and translation. Such elements may vary in their strength and
specificity. Depending on the vector system and host utilized, any number of suitable
transcription and translation elements, including ubiquitous promoters and inducible promoters
may be used.
         In particular embodiments, a vector for use in practicing the invention including, but not
limited to expression vectors and viral vectors, will include exogenous, endogenous, or
heterologous control sequences such as promoters and/or enhancers. An "endogenous" control
sequence is one which is naturally linked with a given gene in the genome. An "exogenous"
control sequence is one which is placed in juxtaposition to a gene by means of genetic
manipulation (i.e., molecular biological techniques) such that transcription of that gene is directed
by the linked enhancer/promoter. A "heterologous" control sequence is an exogenous sequence
that is from a different species than the cell being genetically manipulated.

                                                  - 63
         The term "promoter" as used herein refers to a recognition site of a polynucleotide (DNA
or RNA) to which an RNA polymerase binds. An RNA polymerase initiates and transcribes
polynucleotides operably linked to the promoter. In particular embodiments, promoters operative
in mammalian cells comprise an AT-rich region located approximately 25 to 30 bases upstream
from the site where transcription is initiated and/or another sequence found 70 to 80 bases
upstream from the start of transcription, a CNCAAT region where N may be any nucleotide.
         The term "enhancer" refers to a segment of DNA which contains sequences capable of
providing enhanced transcription and in some instances can function independent of their
orientation relative to another control sequence. An enhancer can function cooperatively or
additively with promoters and/or other enhancer elements. The term "promoter/enhancer" refers
to a segment of DNA which contains sequences capable of providing both promoter and
enhancer functions.
         The term "operably linked", refers to a juxtaposition wherein the components described
are in a relationship permitting them to function in their intended manner. In one embodiment,
the term refers to a functional linkage between a nucleic acid expression control sequence (such
as a promoter, and/or enhancer) and a second polynucleotide sequence, e.g., a polynucleotide-of
interest, wherein the expression control sequence directs transcription of the nucleic acid
corresponding to the second sequence.
         As used herein, the term "constitutive expression control sequence" refers to a promoter,
enhancer, or promoter/enhancer that continually or continuously allows for transcription of an
operably linked sequence. A constitutive expression control sequence may be a "ubiquitous"
promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer that allows expression in a wide variety of cell and
tissue types or a "cell specific," "cell type specific," "cell lineage specific," or "tissue specific"
promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer that allows expression in a restricted variety of cell and
tissue types, respectively.
         Illustrative ubiquitous expression control sequences suitable for use in particular
embodiments of the invention include, but are not limited to, a cytomegalovirus (CMV)
immediate early promoter, a viral simian virus 40 (SV40) (e.g., early or late), a Moloney murine
leukemia virus (MoMLV) LTR promoter, a Rous sarcoma virus (RSV) LTR, a herpes simplex
virus (HSV) (thymidine kinase) promoter, H5, P7.5, and P11 promoters from vaccinia virus, an

                                                   - 64
elongation factor 1-alpha (EF 1a) promoter, early growth response 1 (EGR1), ferritin H (FerH),
ferritin L (FerL), Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), eukaryotic translation
initiation factor 4A1 (EIF4A1), heat shock 70kDa protein 5 (HSPA5), heat shock protein 90kDa
beta, member 1 (HSP90B 1), heat shock protein 70kDa (HSP70), j-kinesin (-KIN), the human
ROSA 26 locus (Irions et al., Nature Biotechnology 25, 1477 - 1482 (2007)), a Ubiquitin C
promoter (UBC), a phosphoglycerate kinase-1 (PGK) promoter, a cytomegalovirus
enhancer/chicken p-actin (CAG) promoter, a p-actin promoter and a myeloproliferative sarcoma
virus enhancer, negative control region deleted, dl587rev primer-binding site substituted (MND)
promoter (Challita et al., J Virol. 69(2):748-55 (1995)).
         In a particular embodiment, it may be desirable to express a polynucleotide comprising an
engineered TCR or CAR from a promoter that provides stable and long-term expression in T
cells and at sufficient levels to redirect the T cells to cells expressing the target antigen. In a
preferred embodiment, the promoter is an EF 1 promoter or an MND promoter.
         As used herein, "conditional expression" may refer to any type of conditional expression
including, but not limited to, inducible expression; repressible expression; expression in cells or
tissues having a particular physiological, biological, or disease state, etc. This definition is not
intended to exclude cell type or tissue specific expression. Certain embodiments of the invention
provide conditional expression of a polynucleotide-of-interest, e.g., expression is controlled by
subjecting a cell, tissue, organism, etc., to a treatment or condition that causes the polynucleotide
to be expressed or that causes an increase or decrease in expression of the polynucleotide encoded
by the polynucleotide-of-interest.
         Illustrative examples of inducible promoters/systems include, but are not limited to,
steroid-inducible promoters such as promoters for genes encoding glucocorticoid or estrogen
receptors (inducible by treatment with the corresponding hormone), metallothionine promoter
(inducible by treatment with various heavy metals), MX- 1 promoter (inducible by interferon), the
"GeneSwitch" mifepristone-regulatable system (Sirin et al., 2003, Gene, 323:67), the cumate
inducible gene switch (WO 2002/088346), tetracycline-dependent regulatory systems, etc.
         Conditional expression can also be achieved by using a site specific DNA recombinase.
According to certain embodiments of the invention the vector comprises at least one (typically
two) site(s) for recombination mediated by a site specific recombinase. As used herein, the terms

                                                  - 65
"recombinase" or "site specific recombinase" include excisive or integrative proteins, enzymes,
cofactors or associated proteins that are involved in recombination reactions involving one or
more recombination sites (e.g., two, three, four, five, seven, ten, twelve, fifteen, twenty, thirty,
fifty, etc.), which may be wild-type proteins (see Landy, Current Opinion in Biotechnology
3:699-707 (1993)), or mutants, derivatives (e.g., fusion proteins containing the recombination
protein sequences or fragments thereof), fragments, and variants thereof. Illustrative examples of
recombinases suitable for use in particular embodiments of the present invention include, but are
not limited to: Cre, Int, IHF, Xis, Flp, Fis, Hin, Gin, 03 1, Cin, Tn3 resolvase, TndX,     XerC,
XerD, TnpX, Hjc, Gin, SpCCE1, and ParA.
G.        VIRAL VECTORS
          In particular embodiments, population of cells comprising T cells, e.g., PBMCs, or a
purified population of T cells is transduced with a retroviral vector, e.g., a lentiviral vector,
encoding an engineered TCR or CAR as contemplated herein. The transduced T cells elicit a
stable, long-term, and persistent T-cell response.
          As used herein, the term "retrovirus" refers to an RNA virus that reverse transcribes its
genomic RNA into a linear double-stranded DNA copy and subsequently covalently integrates its
genomic DNA into a host genome. Illustrative retroviruses suitable for use in particular
embodiments, include, but are not limited to: Moloney murine leukemia virus (M-MuLV),
Moloney murine sarcoma virus (MoMSV), Harvey murine sarcoma virus (HaMuSV), murine
mammary tumor virus (MuMTV), gibbon ape leukemia virus (GaLV), feline leukemia virus
(FLV), spumavirus, Friend murine leukemia virus, Murine Stem Cell Virus (MSCV) and Rous
Sarcoma Virus (RSV)) and lentivirus.
          As used herein, the term "lentivirus" refers to a group (or genus) of complex retroviruses.
Illustrative lentiviruses include, but are not limited to: HIV (human immunodeficiency virus;
including HIV type 1, and HIV type 2); visna-maedi virus (VMV) virus; the caprine arthritis
encephalitis virus (CAEV); equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV); feline immunodeficiency
virus (FIV); bovine immune deficiency virus (BIV); and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).
In one embodiment, HIV based vector backbones (i.e., HIV cis-acting sequence elements) are
preferred.

                                                  - 66
         The term "vector" is used herein to refer to a nucleic acid molecule capable transferring
or transporting another nucleic acid molecule. The transferred nucleic acid is generally linked to,
e.g., inserted into, the vector nucleic acid molecule. A vector may include sequences that direct
autonomous replication in a cell, or may include sequences sufficient to allow integration into
host cell DNA. Useful vectors include, for example, plasmids (e.g., DNA plasmids or RNA
plasmids), transposons, cosmids, bacterial artificial chromosomes, and viral vectors. Useful viral
vectors include, e.g., replication defective retroviruses and lentiviruses.
         As will be evident to one of skill in the art, the term "viral vector" is widely used to refer
either to a nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a transfer plasmid) that includes virus-derived nucleic acid
elements that typically facilitate transfer of the nucleic acid molecule or integration into the
genome of a cell or to a viral particle that mediates nucleic acid transfer. Viral particles will
typically include various viral components and sometimes also host cell components in addition
to nucleic acid(s).
         The term viral vector may refer either to a virus or viral particle capable of transferring a
nucleic acid into a cell or to the transferred nucleic acid itself Viral vectors and transfer plasmids
contain structural and/or functional genetic elements that are primarily derived from a virus. The
term "retroviral vector" refers to a viral vector or plasmid containing structural and functional
genetic elements, or portions thereof, that are primarily derived from a retrovirus. The term
"lentiviral vector" refers to a viral vector or plasmid containing structural and functional genetic
elements, or portions thereof, including LTRs that are primarily derived from a lentivirus. The
term "hybrid vector" refers to a vector, LTR or other nucleic acid containing both retroviral, e.g.,
lentiviral, sequences and non-lentiviral viral sequences. In one embodiment, a hybrid vector
refers to a vector or transfer plasmid comprising retroviral e.g., lentiviral, sequences for reverse
transcription, replication, integration and/or packaging.
         In particular embodiments, the terms "lentiviral vector," "lentiviral expression vector"
may be used to refer to lentiviral transfer plasmids and/or infectious lentiviral particles. Where
reference is made herein to elements such as cloning sites, promoters, regulatory elements,
heterologous nucleic acids, etc., it is to be understood that the sequences of these elements are
present in RNA form in the lentiviral particles of the invention and are present in DNA form in
the DNA plasmids of the invention.

                                                   - 67
         At each end of the provirus are structures called "long terminal repeats" or "LTRs." The
term "long terminal repeat (LTR)" refers to domains of base pairs located at the ends of retroviral
DNAs which, in their natural sequence context, are direct repeats and contain U3, R and U5
regions. LTRs generally provide functions fundamental to the expression of retroviral genes
(e.g., promotion, initiation and polyadenylation of gene transcripts) and to viral replication. The
LTR contains numerous regulatory signals including transcriptional control elements,
polyadenylation signals and sequences needed for replication and integration of the viral genome.
The viral LTR is divided into three regions called U3, R and U5. The U3 region contains the
enhancer and promoter elements. The U5 region is the sequence between the primer binding site
and the R region and contains the polyadenylation sequence. The R (repeat) region is flanked by
the U3 and U5 regions. The LTR composed of U3, R and U5 regions and appears at both the 5'
and 3' ends of the viral genome. Adjacent to the 5' LTR are sequences necessary for reverse
transcription of the genome (the tRNA primer binding site) and for efficient packaging of viral
RNA into particles (the Psi site).
         As used herein, the term "packaging signal" or "packaging sequence" refers to sequences
located within the retroviral genome which are required for insertion of the viral RNA into the
viral capsid or particle, see e.g., Clever et al., 1995. J of Virology, Vol. 69, No. 4; pp. 2101-2109.
Several retroviral vectors use the minimal packaging signal (also referred to as the psi []P
sequence) needed for encapsidation of the viral genome. Thus, as used herein, the terms
"packaging sequence," "packaging signal," "psi" and the symbol "P           are used in reference to the
non-coding sequence required for encapsidation of retroviral RNA strands during viral particle
formation.
         In various embodiments, vectors comprise modified 5' LTR and/or 3' LTRs. Either or
both of the LTR may comprise one or more modifications including, but not limited to, one or
more deletions, insertions, or substitutions. Modifications of the 3' LTR are often made to
improve the safety of lentiviral or retroviral systems by rendering viruses replication-defective.
As used herein, the term "replication-defective" refers to virus that is not capable of complete,
effective replication such that infective virions are not produced (e.g., replication-defective
lentiviral progeny). The term "replication-competent" refers to wild-type virus or mutant virus

                                                  - 68
that is capable of replication, such that viral replication of the virus is capable of producing
infective virions (e.g., replication-competent lentiviral progeny).
         "Self-inactivating" (SIN) vectors refers to replication-defective vectors, e.g., retroviral or
lentiviral vectors, in which the right (3') LTR enhancer-promoter region, known as the U3 region,
has been modified (e.g., by deletion or substitution) to prevent viral transcription beyond the first
round of viral replication. This is because the right (3') LTR U3 region is used as a template for
the left (5') LTR U3 region during viral replication and, thus, the viral transcript cannot be made
without the U3 enhancer-promoter. In a further embodiment of the invention, the 3' LTR is
modified such that the U5 region is replaced, for example, with an ideal poly(A) sequence. It
should be noted that modifications to the LTRs such as modifications to the 3' LTR, the 5' LTR,
or both 3' and 5' LTRs, are also included in the invention.
         An additional safety enhancement is provided by replacing the U3 region of the 5' LTR
with a heterologous promoter to drive transcription of the viral genome during production of viral
particles. Examples of heterologous promoters which can be used include, for example, viral
simian virus 40 (SV40) (e.g., early or late), cytomegalovirus (CMV) (e.g., immediate early),
Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV), Rous sarcoma virus (RSV), and herpes simplex
virus (HSV) (thymidine kinase) promoters. Typical promoters are able to drive high levels of
transcription in a Tat-independent manner. This replacement reduces the possibility of
recombination to generate replication-competent virus because there is no complete U3 sequence
in the virus production system. In certain embodiments, the heterologous promoter has additional
advantages in controlling the manner in which the viral genome is transcribed. For example, the
heterologous promoter can be inducible, such that transcription of all or part of the viral genome
will occur only when the induction factors are present. Induction factors include, but are not
limited to, one or more chemical compounds or the physiological conditions such as temperature
or pH, in which the host cells are cultured.
         In some embodiments, viral vectors comprise a TAR element. The term "TAR" refers to
the "trans-activation response" genetic element located in the R region of lentiviral (e.g., HIV)
LTRs. This element interacts with the lentiviral trans-activator (tat) genetic element to enhance
viral replication. However, this element is not required in embodiments wherein the U3 region of
the 5' LTR is replaced by a heterologous promoter.

                                                  - 69
         The "R region" refers to the region within retroviral LTRs beginning at the start of the
capping group (i.e., the start of transcription) and ending immediately prior to the start of the poly
A tract. The R region is also defined as being flanked by the U3 and U5 regions. The R region
plays a role during reverse transcription in permitting the transfer of nascent DNA from one end
of the genome to the other.
         As used herein, the term "FLAP element" refers to a nucleic acid whose sequence
includes the central polypurine tract and central termination sequences (cPPT and CTS) of a
retrovirus, e.g., HIV-1 or HIV-2. Suitable FLAP elements are described in U.S. Pat. No.
6,682,907 and in Zennou, et al., 2000, Cell, 101:173. During HIV- 1 reverse transcription, central
initiation of the plus-strand DNA at the central polypurine tract (cPPT) and central termination at
the central termination sequence (CTS) lead to the formation of a three-stranded DNA structure:
the HIV-1 central DNA flap. While not wishing to be bound by any theory, the DNA flap may
act as a cis-active determinant of lentiviral genome nuclear import and/or may increase the titer of
the virus. In particular embodiments, the retroviral or lentiviral vector backbones comprise one
or more FLAP elements upstream or downstream of the heterologous genes of interest in the
vectors. For example, in particular embodiments a transfer plasmid includes a FLAP element. In
one embodiment, a vector of the invention comprises a FLAP element isolated from HIV-1.
         In one embodiment, retroviral or lentiviral transfer vectors comprise one or more export
elements. The term "export element" refers to a cis-acting post-transcriptional regulatory element
which regulates the transport of an RNA transcript from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of a cell.
Examples of RNA export elements include, but are not limited to, the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) rev response element (RRE) (see e.g., Cullen et al., 1991. J Virol. 65: 1053; and
Cullen et al., 1991. Cell 58: 423), and the hepatitis B virus post-transcriptional regulatory element
(HPRE). Generally, the RNA export element is placed within the 3' UTR of a gene, and can be
inserted as one or multiple copies.
         In particular embodiments, expression of heterologous sequences in viral vectors is
increased by incorporating posttranscriptional regulatory elements, efficient polyadenylation
sites, and optionally, transcription termination signals into the vectors. A variety of
posttranscriptional regulatory elements can increase expression of a heterologous nucleic acid at
the protein, e.g., woodchuck hepatitis virus posttranscriptional regulatory element (WPRE;

                                                 - 70
Zufferey et al., 1999, J Virol., 73:2886); the posttranscriptional regulatory element present in
hepatitis B virus (HPRE) (Huang et al., Mol. Cell. Biol., 5:3 864); and the like (Liu et al., 1995,
Genes Dev., 9:1766). In particular embodiments, vectors of the invention comprise a
posttranscriptional regulatory element such as a WPRE or HPRE
          In particular embodiments, vectors of the invention lack or do not comprise a
posttranscriptional regulatory element such as a WPRE or HPRE because in some instances these
elements increase the risk of cellular transformation and/or do not substantially or significantly
increase the amount of mRNA transcript or increase mRNA stability. Therefore, in some
embodiments, vectors of the invention lack or do not comprise a WPRE or HPRE as an added
safety measure.
          Elements directing the efficient termination and polyadenylation of the heterologous
nucleic acid transcripts increases heterologous gene expression. Transcription termination signals
are generally found downstream of the polyadenylation signal. In particular embodiments,
vectors comprise a polyadenylation sequence 3'of a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide to be
expressed. The term "polyA site" or "polyA sequence" as used herein denotes a DNA sequence
which directs both the termination and polyadenylation of the nascent RNA transcript by RNA
polymerase II. Polyadenylation sequences can promote mRNA stability by addition of a polyA
tail to the 3'end of the coding sequence and thus, contribute t o increased translational efficiency.
Efficient polyadenylation of the recombinant transcript is desirable as transcripts lacking a poly A
tail are unstable and are rapidly degraded. Illustrative examples of polyA signals that can be used
in a vector of the invention, includes an ideal polyA sequence (e.g., AATAAA, ATTAAA,
AGTAAA), a bovine growth hormone polyA sequence (BGHpA), a rabbit p-globin polyA
sequence (rgpA), or another suitable heterologous      or endogenous polyA sequence known in the
art.
          In various embodiments, the vectors of the invention comprise a promoter operably
linked to a polynucleotide encoding an engineered TCR or CAR polypeptide. The vectors may
have one or more LTRs, wherein either LTR comprises one or more modifications, such as one
or more nucleotide substitutions, additions, or deletions. The vectors may further comprise one
of more accessory elements to increase transduction efficiency (e.g., a cPPT/FLAP), viral
packaging (e.g., a Psi ()Iackaging signal, RRE), and/or other elem ents that increase therapeutic

                                                  - 71
gene expression (e.g., poly (A) sequences), and may optionally comprise a WPRE or HPRE. The
skilled artisan would appreciate that many other different embodiments can be fashioned from the
existing embodiments of the invention.
         A "host cell" includes cells transfected, infected, or transduced in vivo, ex vivo, or in vitro
with a recombinant vector or a polynucleotide of the invention. Host cells may include
packaging cells, producer cells, and cells infected with viral vectors. In particular embodiments,
host cells infected with viral vector of the invention are administered to a subject in need of
therapy. In certain embodiments, the term "target cell" is used interchangeably with host cell and
refers to transfected, infected, or transduced cells of a desired cell type. In preferred
embodiments, the target cell is a T cell.
         Large scale viral particle production is often necessary to achieve a reasonable viral titer.
Viral particles are produced by transfecting a transfer vector into a packaging cell line that
comprises viral structural and/or accessory genes, e.g., gag, pol, env, tat, rev, vif, vpr, vpu, vpx, or
nef genes or other retroviral genes.
         As used herein, the term "packaging vector" refers to an expression vector or viral vector
that lacks a packaging signal and comprises a polynucleotide encoding one, two, three, four or
more viral structural and/or accessory genes. Typically, the packaging vectors are included in a
packaging cell, and are introduced into the cell via transfection, transduction or infection.
Methods for transfection, transduction or infection are well known by those of skill in the art. A
retroviral/lentiviral transfer vector of the present invention can be introduced into a packaging cell
line, via transfection, transduction or infection, to generate a producer cell or cell line. The
packaging vectors of the present invention can be introduced into human cells or cell lines by
standard methods including, e.g., calcium phosphate transfection, lipofection or electroporation.
In some embodiments, the packaging vectors are introduced into the cells together with a
dominant selectable marker, such as neomycin, hygromycin, puromycin, blastocidin, zeocin,
thymidine kinase, DHFR, Gln synthetase or ADA, followed by selection in the presence of the
appropriate drug and isolation of clones. A selectable marker gene can be linked physically to
genes encoding by the packaging vector, e.g., by IRES or self cleaving viral peptides.
         Viral envelope proteins (env) determine the range of host cells which can ultimately be
infected and transformed by recombinant retroviruses generated from the cell lines. In the case of

                                                  - 72
lentiviruses, such as HIV-1, HIV-2, SIV, FIV and EIV, the env proteins include gp41 and gp120.
Preferably, the viral env proteins expressed by packaging cells of the invention are encoded on a
separate vector from the viral gag and pol genes, as has been previously described.
         Illustrative examples of retroviral-derived env genes which can be employed in the
invention include, but are not limited to: MLV envelopes, 10A1 envelope, BAEV, FeLV-B,
RD 114, SSAV, Ebola, Sendai, FPV (Fowl plague virus), and influenza virus envelopes.
Similarly, genes encoding envelopes from RNA viruses (e.g., RNA virus families of
Picomaviridae, Calciviridae, Astroviridae, Togaviridae, Flaviviridae, Coronaviridae,
Paramyxoviridae, Rhabdoviridae, Filoviridae, Orthomyxoviridae, Bunyaviridae, Arenaviridae,
Reoviridae, Bimaviridae, Retroviridae) as well as from the DNA viruses (families of
Hepadnaviridae, Circoviridae, Parvoviridae, Papovaviridae, Adenoviridae, Herpesviridae,
Poxyiridae, and Iridoviridae) may be utilized. Representative examples include , FeLV, VEE,
HFVW, WDSV, SFV, Rabies, ALV, BIV, BLV, EBV, CAEV, SNV, ChTLV, STLV, MPMV,
SMRV, RAV, FuSV, MH2, AEV, AMV, CT 10, and EIAV.
         In other embodiments, envelope proteins for pseudotyping a virus of present invention
include, but are not limited to any of the following virus: Influenza A such as HINI, H1N2,
H3N2 and H5N1 (bird flu), Influenza B, Influenza C virus, Hepatitis A virus, Hepatitis B virus,
Hepatitis C virus, Hepatitis D virus, Hepatitis E virus, Rotavirus, any virus of the Norwalk virus
group, enteric adenoviruses, parvovirus, Dengue fever virus, Monkey pox, Mononegavirales,
Lyssavirus such as rabies virus, Lagos bat virus, Mokola virus, Duvenhage virus, European bat
virus 1 & 2 and Australian bat virus, Ephemerovirus, Vesiculovirus, Vesicular Stomatitis Virus
(VSV), Herpesviruses such as Herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2, varicella zoster,
cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Bar virus (EBV), human herpesviruses (HHV), human herpesvirus
type 6 and 8, Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), papilloma virus, murine
gammaherpesvirus, Arenaviruses such as Argentine hemorrhagic fever virus, Bolivian
hemorrhagic fever virus, Sabia-associated hemorrhagic fever virus, Venezuelan hemorrhagic
fever virus, Lassa fever virus, Machupo virus, Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV),
Bunyaviridiae such as Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus, Hantavirus, hemorrhagic fever
with renal syndrome causing virus, Rift Valley fever virus, Filoviridae (filovirus) including Ebola
hemorrhagic fever and Marburg hemorrhagic fever, Flaviviridae including Kaysanur Forest

                                                 - 73
disease virus, Omsk hemorrhagic fever virus, Tick-bome encephalitis causing virus and
Paramyxoviridae such as Hendra virus and Nipah virus, variola major and variola minor
(smallpox), alphaviruses such as Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, eastern equine
encephalitis virus, western equine encephalitis virus, SARS-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV),
West Nile virus, any encephaliltis causing virus.
         In one embodiment, the invention provides packaging cells which produce recombinant
retrovirus, e.g., lentivirus, pseudotyped with the VSV-G glycoprotein.
         The terms "pseudotype" or "pseudotyping" as used herein, refer to a virus whose viral
envelope proteins have been substituted with those of another virus possessing preferable
characteristics. For example, HIV can be pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus G-protein
(VSV-G) envelope proteins, which allows HIV to infect a wider range of cells because HIV
envelope proteins (encoded by the env gene) normally target the virus to CD4+ presenting cells.
In a preferred embodiment of the invention, lentiviral envelope proteins are pseudotyped with
VSV-G. In one embodiment, the invention provides packaging cells which produce recombinant
retrovirus, e.g., lentivirus, pseudotyped with the VSV-G envelope glycoprotein.
         As used herein, the term "packaging cell lines" is used in reference to cell lines that do
not contain a packaging signal, but do stably or transiently express viral structural proteins and
replication enzymes (e.g., gag, pol and env) which are necessary for the correct packaging of viral
particles. Any suitable cell line can be employed to prepare packaging cells of the invention.
Generally, the cells are mammalian cells. In a particular embodiment, the cells used to produce
the packaging cell line are human cells. Suitable cell lines which can be used include, for
example, CHO cells, BHK cells, MDCK cells, C3H 1OT1/2 cells, FLY cells, Psi-2 cells, BOSC
23 cells, PA317 cells, WEHI cells, COS cells, BSC 1 cells, BSC 40 cells, BMT 10 cells, VERO
cells, W138 cells, MRC5 cells, A549 cells, HT1080 cells, 293 cells, 293T cells, B-50 cells, 3T3
cells, NIH3T3 cells, HepG2 cells, Saos-2 cells, Huh7 cells, HeLa cells, W163 cells, 211 cells, and
21 1A cells. In preferred embodiments, the packaging cells are 293 cells, 293T cells, or A549
cells.
         As used herein, the term "producer cell line" refers to a cell line which is capable of
producing recombinant retroviral particles, comprising a packaging cell line and a transfer vector
construct comprising a packaging signal. The production of infectious viral particles and viral

                                                 - 74
stock solutions may be carried out using conventional techniques. Methods of preparing viral
stock solutions are known in the art and are illustrated by, e.g., Y. Soneoka et al. (1995) NucL.
Acids Res. 23:628-633, and N. R. Landau et al. (1992) J Virol. 66:5110-5113. Infectious virus
particles may be collected from the packaging cells using conventional techniques. For example,
the infectious particles can be collected by cell lysis, or collection of the supernatant of the cell
culture, as is known in the art. Optionally, the collected virus particles may be purified if desired.
Suitable purification techniques are well known to those skilled in the art.
         The delivery of a gene(s) or other polynucleotide sequence using a retroviral or lentiviral
vector by means of viral infection rather than by transfection is referred to as "transduction." In
one embodiment, retroviral vectors are transduced into a cell through infection and provirus
integration. In certain embodiments, a target cell, e.g., a T cell, is "transduced" if it comprises a
gene or other polynucleotide sequence delivered to the cell by infection using a viral or retroviral
vector. In particular embodiments, a transduced cell comprises one or more genes or other
polynucleotide sequences delivered by a retroviral or lentiviral vector in its cellular genome.
         In particular embodiments, host cells transduced with viral vector of the invention that
expresses one or more polypeptides, are administered to a subject to treat and/or prevent a B-cell
malignancy. Other methods relating to the use of viral vectors in gene therapy, which may be
utilized according to certain embodiments of the present invention, can be found in, e.g., Kay, M.
A. (1997) Chest 111(6 Supp.):138S-142S; Ferry, N. and Heard, J. M. (1998) Hum. Gene Ther.
9:1975-81; Shiratory, Y. et al. (1999) Liver 19:265-74; Oka, K. et al. (2000) Curr. Opin. Lipidol.
11:179-86; Thule, P. M. and Liu, J. M. (2000) Gene Ther. 7:1744-52; Yang, N. S. (1992) Crit.
Rev. Biotechnol. 12:335-56; Alt, M. (1995) J Hepatol. 23:746-58; Brody, S. L. and Crystal, R.
G. (1994) Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 716:90-101; Strayer, D. S. (1999) Expert Opin. Investig. Drugs
8:2159-2172; Smith-Arica, J. R. and Bartlett, J. S. (2001) Curr.Cardiol. Rep. 3:43-49; and Lee,
H. C. et al. (2000) Nature 408:483-8.
H.       COMPOSITIONS AND FORMULATIONS
         The compositions contemplated herein may comprise one or more polypeptides,
polynucleotides, vectors comprising same, and T cell compositions, as contemplated herein.
Compositions include, but are not limited to pharmaceutical compositions. A "pharmaceutical

                                                  - 75
composition" refers to a composition formulated in pharmaceutically-acceptable or
physiologically-acceptable solutions for administration to a cell or an animal, either alone, or in
combination with one or more other modalities of therapy. It will also be understood that, if
desired, the compositions of the invention may be administered in combination with other agents
as well, such as, e.g., cytokines, growth factors, hormones, small molecules, chemotherapeutics,
pro-drugs, drugs, antibodies, or other various pharmaceutically-active agents. There is virtually
no limit to other components that may also be included in the compositions, provided that the
additional agents do not adversely affect the ability of the composition to deliver the intended
therapy.
        The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" is employed herein to refer to those
compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within the scope of sound
medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals
without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other problem or complication,
commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
        As used herein "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient" includes
without limitation any adjuvant, carrier, excipient, glidant, sweetening agent, diluent,
preservative, dye/colorant, flavor enhancer, surfactant, wetting agent, dispersing agent,
suspending agent, stabilizer, isotonic agent, solvent, surfactant, or emulsifier which has been
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for use in
humans or domestic animals. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include, but are
not limited to, to sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches, such as corn starch and
potato starch; cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl
cellulose and cellulose acetate; tragacanth; malt; gelatin; talc; cocoa butter, waxes, animal and
vegetable fats, paraffins, silicones, bentonites, silicic acid, zinc oxide; oils, such as peanut oil,
cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, com oil and soybean oil; glycols, such as
propylene glycol; polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol and polyethylene glycol; esters,
such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar; buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and
aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid; pyrogen-free water; isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl
alcohol; phosphate buffer solutions; and any other compatible substances employed in
pharmaceutical formulations.

                                                  - 76
         In particular embodiments, compositions of the present invention comprise an amount
modified T cells manufactured by the methods contemplated herein. It can generally be stated
that a pharmaceutical composition comprising the T cells manufactured by the methods
contemplated herein may be administered at a dosage of 102 to 1010 cells/kg body weight,
preferably 105 to 106 cells/kg body weight, including all integer values within those ranges. The
number of cells will depend upon the ultimate use for which the composition is intended as will
the type of cells included therein. For uses provided herein, the cells are generally in a volume of
a liter or less, can be 500 mLs or less, even 250 mLs or 100 mLs or less. Hence the density of the
desired cells is typically greater than 106 cells/ml and generally is greater than 107 cells/ml,
generally 108 cells/ml or greater. The clinically relevant number of immune cells can be
apportioned into multiple infusions that cumulatively equal or exceed 105, 106, 107, 108, 101, 1010,
1011,  or 1012 cells. The cells may be allogeneic, syngeneic, xenogeneic, or autologous to the
patient undergoing therapy. If desired, the treatment may also include administration of mitogens
(e.g., PHA) or lymphokines, cytokines, and/or chemokines (e.g., IFN-yIL -2, IL-7, IL-15, IL- 12,
TNF-alpha, IL-18, and TNF-beta, GM-CSF, IL-4, IL-13, Flt3-L, RANTES, MIP1x etc.) as
described herein to enhance engraftment and function of infused T cells.
         Generally, compositions comprising the cells activated and expanded as described herein
may be utilized in the treatment and prevention of diseases that arise in individuals who are
immunocompromised. In particular, compositions comprising the modified T cells manufactured
by the methods contemplated herein are used in the treatment of cancer. The modified T cells of
the present invention may be administered either alone, or as a pharmaceutical composition in
combination with carriers, diluents, excipients, and/or with other components such as IL-2, IL-7,
and/or IL-15 or other cytokines or cell populations. In particular embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions contemplated herein comprise an amount of genetically modified T cells, in
combination with one or more pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carriers, diluents or
excipients.
         Pharmaceutical compositions comprising modified T cells contemplated herein may
further comprise buffers such as neutral buffered saline, phosphate buffered saline and the like;
carbohydrates such as glucose, mannose, sucrose or dextrans, mannitol; proteins; polypeptides or
amino acids such as glycine; antioxidants; chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione;

                                                 - 77
adjuvants (e.g., aluminum hydroxide); and preservatives. Compositions of the present invention
are preferably formulated for parenteral administration, e.g., intravascular (intravenous or
intraarterial), intraperitoneal or intramuscular administration.
         In one embodiment, the compositions are administered intravenously.
         The liquid pharmaceutical compositions, whether they be solutions, suspensions or other
like form, may include one or more of the following: DMSO, sterile diluents such as water for
injection, saline solution, preferably physiological saline, Ringer' s solution, isotonic sodium
chloride, fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or
suspending medium, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene glycol or other solvents;
antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben; antioxidants such as ascorbic acid
or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as
acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride
or dextrose.
         In particular embodiments, the cells are frozen in infusible cryogenic medium, 50%
plasmalyte and 50% Cryostor 10; 50/40/10 (XVIVO/HABS/DMSO); or Cryostor 10.
         The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in glass or plastic bags, ampoules, disposable
syringes or multiple dose vials . An injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.
         In a particular embodiment, compositions contemplated herein comprise an effective
amount of an expanded modified T cell composition, alone or in combination with one or more
therapeutic agents. Thus, the T cell compositions may be administered alone or in combination
with other known cancer treatments, such as radiation therapy, chemotherapy, transplantation,
immunotherapy, hormone therapy, photodynamic therapy, etc. The compositions may also be
administered in combination with antibiotics. Such therapeutic agents may be accepted in the art
as a standard treatment for a particular disease state as described herein, such as a particular
cancer. Exemplary therapeutic agents contemplated include cytokines, growth factors, steroids,
NSAIDs, DMARDs, anti-inflammatories, chemotherapeutics, radiotherapeutics, therapeutic
antibodies, or other active and ancillary agents.
         In certain embodiments, compositions comprising T cells contemplated herein may be
administered in conjunction with any number of chemotherapeutic agents. Illustrative examples
of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and cyclophosphamide

                                                - 78
(CYTOXANTM); alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan, improsulfan and piposulfan; aziridines such
as benzodopa, carboquone, meturedopa, and uredopa; ethylenimines and methylamelamines
including altretamine, triethylenemelamine, trietylenephosphoramide,
triethylenethiophosphaoramide and trimethylolomelamine resume; nitrogen mustards such as
chlorambucil, chlomaphazine, cholophosphamide, estramustine, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine,
mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride, melphalan, novembichin, phenesterine, prednimustine,
trofosfamide, uracil mustard; nitrosureas such as carmustine, chlorozotocin, fotemustine,
lomustine, nimustine, ranimustine; antibiotics such as aclacinomysins, actinomycin, authramycin,
azaserine, bleomycins, cactinomycin, calicheamicin, carabicin, carminomycin, carzinophilin,
chromomycins, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, detorubicin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine,
doxorubicin, epirubicin, esorubicin, idarubicin, marcellomycin, mitomycins, mycophenolic acid,
nogalamycin, olivomycins, peplomycin, potfiromycin, puromycin, quelamycin, rodorubicin,
streptonigrin, streptozocin, tubercidin, ubenimex, zinostatin, zorubicin; anti-metabolites such as
methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); folic acid analogues such as denopterin, methotrexate,
pteropterin, trimetrexate; purine analogs such as fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, thiamiprine,
thioguanine; pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine, azacitidine, 6-azauridine, carmofur,
cytarabine, dideoxyuridine, doxifluridine, enocitabine, floxuridine, 5-FU; androgens such as
calusterone, dromostanolone propionate, epitiostanol, mepitiostane, testolactone; anti-adrenals
such as aminoglutethimide, mitotane, trilostane; folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid;
aceglatone; aldophosphamide glycoside; aminolevulinic acid; amsacrine; bestrabucil; bisantrene;
edatraxate; defofamine; demecolcine; diaziquone; elformithine; elliptinium acetate; etoglucid;
gallium nitrate; hydroxyurea; lentinan; lonidamine; mitoguazone; mitoxantrone; mopidamol;
nitracrine; pentostatin; phenamet; pirarubicin; podophyllinic acid; 2-ethylhydrazide;
procarbazine; PSK®; razoxane; sizofiran; spirogermanium; tenuazonic acid; triaziquone; 2, 2',2"
trichlorotriethylamine; urethan; vindesine; dacarbazine; mannomustine; mitobronitol; mitolactol;
pipobroman; gacytosine; arabinoside ("Ara-C"); cyclophosphamide; thiotepa; taxoids, e.g.
paclitaxel (TAXOL®, Bristol-Myers Squibb Oncology, Princeton, N.J.) and doxetaxel
(TAXOTERE®., Rhne-Poulenc Rorer, Antony, France); chlorambucil; gemcitabine; 6
thioguanine; mercaptopurine; methotrexate; platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin;
vinblastine; platinum; etoposide; ifosfamide; mitomycin C; mitoxantrone; vincristine;

                                                - 79
vinorelbine; navelbine; novantrone; teniposide; daunomycin; aminopterin; xeloda; ibandronate;
CPT-1 1; topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000; difluoromethylomithine (DMFO); retinoic acid
derivatives such as TargretinTM (bexarotene), PanretinTM (alitretinoin) ; ONTAKTM (denileukin
diftitox) ; esperamicins; capecitabine; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids or derivatives
of any of the above. Also included in this definition are anti-hormonal agents that act to regulate
or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti-estrogens including for example tamoxifen,
raloxifene, aromatase inhibiting 4(5)-imidazoles, 4-hydroxytamoxifen, trioxifene, keoxifene,
LY 117018, onapristone, and toremifene (Fareston); and anti-androgens such as flutamide,
nilutamide, bicalutamide, leuprolide, and goserelin; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids
or derivatives of any of the above.
         A variety of other therapeutic agents may be used in conjunction with the compositions
described herein. In one embodiment, the composition comprising T cells is administered with
an anti-inflammatory agent. Anti-inflammatory agents or drugs include, but are not limited to,
steroids and glucocorticoids (including betamethasone, budesonide, dexamethasone,
hydrocortisone acetate, hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone, prednisolone,
prednisone, triamcinolone), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) including aspirin,
ibuprofen, naproxen, methotrexate, sulfasalazine, leflunomide, anti-TNF medications,
cyclophosphamide and mycophenolate.
         Other exemplary NSAIDs are chosen from the group consisting of ibuprofen, naproxen,
naproxen sodium, Cox-2 inhibitors such as VIOXX® (rofecoxib) and CELEBREX® (celecoxib),
and sialylates. Exemplary analgesics are chosen from the group consisting of acetaminophen,
oxycodone, tramadol of proporxyphene hydrochloride. Exemplary glucocorticoids are chosen
from the group consisting of cortisone, dexamethasone, hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone,
prednisolone, or prednisone. Exemplary biological response modifiers include molecules
directed against cell surface markers (e.g., CD4, CD5, etc.), cytokine inhibitors, such as the TNF
antagonists (e.g., etanercept (ENBREL@), adalimumab (HUMIRA@) and infliximab
(REMICADE®), chemokine inhibitors and adhesion molecule inhibitors. The biological
response modifiers include monoclonal antibodies as well as recombinant forms of molecules.
Exemplary DMARDs include azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine, methotrexate,

                                                - 80
penicillamine, leflunomide, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, Gold (oral (auranofin) and
intramuscular) and minocycline.
         Illustrative examples of therapeutic antibodies suitable for combination with the CAR
modified T cells contemplated herein, include but are not limited to, abagovomab,
adecatumumab, afutuzumab, alemtuzumab, altumomab, amatuximab, anatumomab,
arcitumomab, bavituximab, bectumomab, bevacizumab, bivatuzumab, blinatumomab,
brentuximab, cantuzumab, catumaxomab, cetuximab, citatuzumab, cixutumumab, clivatuzumab,
conatumumab, daratumumab, drozitumab, duligotumab, dusigitumab, detumomab, dacetuzumab,
dalotuzumab, ecromeximab, elotuzumab, ensituximab, ertumaxomab, etaracizumab,
farietuzumab, ficlatuzumab, figitumumab, flanvotumab, futuximab, ganitumab, gemtuzumab,
girentuximab, glembatumumab, ibritumomab, igovomab, imgatuzumab, indatuximab,
inotuzumab, intetumumab, ipilimumab, iratumumab, labetuzumab, lexatumumab, lintuzumab,
lorvotuzumab, lucatumumab, mapatumumab, matuzumab, milatuzumab, minretumomab,
mitumomab, moxetumomab, namatumab, naptumomab, necitumumab, nimotuzumab,
nofetumomab, ocaratuzumab, ofatumumab, olaratumab, onartuzumab, oportuzumab,
oregovomab, panitumumab, parsatuzumab, patritumab, pemtumomab, pertuzumab, pintumomab,
pritumumab, racotumomab, radretumab, rilotumumab, rituximab, robatumumab, satumomab,
sibrotuzumab, siltuximab, simtuzumab, solitomab, tacatuzumab, taplitumomab, tenatumomab,
teprotumumab, tigatuzumab, tositumomab, trastuzumab, tucotuzumab, ublituximab, veltuzumab,
vorsetuzumab, votumumab, zalutumumab, CC49 and 3F8.
         In certain embodiments, the compositions described herein are administered in
conjunction with a cytokine. By "cytokine" as used herein is meant a generic term for proteins
released by one cell population that act on another cell as intercellular mediators. Examples of
such cytokines are lymphokines, monokines, chemokines, e.g., RANTES, MIP 1a, and traditional
polypeptide hormones. Included among the cytokines are growth hormones such as human
growth hormone, N-methionyl human growth hormone, and bovine growth hormone; parathyroid
hormone; thyroxine; insulin; proinsulin; relaxin; prorelaxin; glycoprotein hormones such as
follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), and luteinizing hormone
(LH); hepatic growth factor; fibroblast growth factor; prolactin; placental lactogen; tumor
necrosis factor-alpha and -beta; mullerian-inhibiting substance; mouse gonadotropin-associated

                                                    - 81
peptide; inhibin; activin; vascular endothelial growth factor; integrin; thrombopoietin (TPO);
nerve growth factors such as NGF-beta; platelet-growth factor; transforming growth factors
(TGFs) such as TGF-alpha and TGF-beta; insulin-like growth factor-I and -II; erythropoietin
(EPO); osteoinductive factors; interferons such as interferon-alpha, beta, and -gamma; colony
stimulating factors (CSFs) such as macrophage-CSF (M-CSF); granulocyte-macrophage-CSF
(GM-CSF); and granulocyte-CSF (G-CSF); interleukins (ILs) such as IL-I, IL-I alpha, IL-2, IL-3,
IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-1i, IL-12; IL-15, IL-21, a tumor necrosis factor such
as TNF-alpha or TNF-beta; and other polypeptide factors including LIF and kit ligand (KL). As
used herein, the term cytokine includes proteins from natural sources or from recombinant cell
culture, and biologically active equivalents of the native sequence cytokines.
 .        TARGET CELLS AND ANTIGENS
          The present invention contemplates, in part, cell manufacturing platforms for producing
genetically modified immune effector cells redirected to a target cell, e.g., a tumor or cancer cell,
and that comprise engineered T cell receptors or CARs having a binding domain that binds to
target antigens on the cells. Cancer cells can also spread to other parts of the body through the
blood and lymph systems. There are several main types of cancer. Carcinoma is a cancer that
begins in the skin or in tissues that line or cover internal organs. Sarcoma is a cancer that begins
in bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. Leukemia
is a cancer that starts in blood-forming tissue such as the bone marrow, and causes large numbers
of abnormal blood cells to be produced and enter the blood. Lymphoma and multiple myeloma
are cancers that begin in the cells of the immune system. Central nervous system cancers are
cancers that begin in the tissues of the brain and spinal cord.
          In one embodiment, the target cell expresses an antigen, e.g., target antigen, that is not
substantially found on the surface of other normal (desired) cells. In one embodiment, the target
cell is a pancreatic parenchymal cell, pancreatic duct cell, hepatic cell, cardiac muscle cell,
skeletal muscle cell, osteoblast, skeletal myoblast, neuron, vascular endothelial cell, pigment cell,
smooth muscle cell, glial cell, fat cell, bone cell, chondrocyte, pancreatic islet cell, CNS cell, PNS
cell, liver cell, adipose cell, renal cell, lung cell, skin cell, ovary cell, follicular cell, epithelial cell,
immune cell, or an endothelial cell.

                                                 - 82
         In certain embodiments, the target cell is part of a pancreatic tissue, neural tissue, cardiac
tissue, bone marrow, muscle tissue, bone tissue, skin tissue, liver tissue, hair follicles, vascular
tissue, adipose tissue, lung tissue, and kidney tissue.
         In a particular embodiment, the target cell is a tumor cell. In another particular
embodiment, the target cell is a cancer cell, such as a cell in a patient with cancer. Exemplary
cells that can be killed with the disclosed methods include cells of the following tumors: a liquid
tumor such as a leukemia, including acute leukemia (such as acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute
myelocytic leukemia, and myeloblastic, promyelocytic, myelomonocytic, monocytic and
erythroleukemia), chronic leukemias (such as chronic myelocytic (granulocytic) leukemia and
chronic lymphocytic leukemia), polycythemia vera, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, non
Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, heavy chain
disease).
         In another embodiment, the cell is a solid tumor cell, such as sarcomas and carcinomas,
fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, and other
sarcomas, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma,
colon carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, hepatocellular
carcinonma, lung cancer, colorectal cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
adenocarcinoma (for example adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, colon, ovary, lung, breast,
stomach, prostate, cervix, or esophagus), sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma,
papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma,
renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical
cancer, testicular tumor, bladder carcinoma, CNS tumors (such as a glioma, astrocytoma,
medulloblastoma, craniopharyogioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic
neuroma, oligodendroglioma, menangioma, melanoma, neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma).
         In one embodiment, the cancer is selected from the group consisting of: The method of
claim 1, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of Wilms' tumor, Ewing
sarcoma, a neuroendocrine tumor, a glioblastoma, a neuroblastoma, a melanoma, skin cancer,
breast cancer, colon cancer, rectal cancer, prostate cancer, liver cancer, renal cancer, pancreatic
cancer, lung cancer, biliary cancer, cervical cancer, endometrial cancer, esophageal cancer,
gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, medullary thyroid carcinoma, ovarian cancer, glioma,

                                                   - 83
lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia,
chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, Hodgkin's lymphoma, non
Hodgkin's lymphoma, and urinary bladder cancer.
         In one embodiment, the target cell is a malignant cell of the liver, pancreas, lung, breast,
bladder, brain, bone, thyroid, kidney, skin, and hematopoietic system. In another embodiment,
the target cell is a cell in a liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, bladder
cancer, brain cancer, bone cancer, thyroid cancer, kidney cancer, skin cancer, or hematological
cancer.
         In one embodiment, the target antigen is an epitope of alpha folate receptor, 5T4, avJ6
integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6,
CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123, CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family
including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII, EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal
AchR, FRa, GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3 (GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA
A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-I Ra, IL
13Rax2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa, Mesothelin, Muc1, Muc16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY
ESO-1, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA, RORI, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, or VEGFR2.
J.       THERAPEUTIC METHODS
         The modified T cells manufactured by the methods contemplated herein provide
improved adoptive immunotherapy for use in the treatment of various conditions including,
without limitation, cancer, infectious disease, autoimmune disease, inflammatory disease, and
immunodeficiency. In particular embodiments, the specificity of a primary T cell is redirected to
tumor or cancer cells by genetically modifying the primary T cell with an engineered TCR or
CAR contemplated herein. In one embodiment, the present invention includes a type of cellular
therapy where T cells are modified to express an engineered TCR or CAR that targets cancer
cells that express a target antigen, and the modified T cell is infused to a recipient in need thereof.
The infused cell is able to kill tumor cells in the recipient. Unlike antibody therapies, engineered
TCR or CAR modified T cells are able to replicate in vivo; thus, contributing to long-term
persistence that can lead to sustained cancer therapy.

                                                 - 84
         In one embodiment, the engineered TCR and CAR T cells of the invention can undergo
robust in vivo T cell expansion and can persist for an extended amount of time. In another
embodiment, the engineered TCR or CAR T cells of the invention evolve into specific memory T
cells that can be reactivated to inhibit any additional tumor formation or growth.
         In particular embodiments, compositions comprising an immune effector cell genetically
modified with a vector comprising a promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide encoding a
CAR are used in the treatment of solid tumors or cancers including, without limitation, liver
cancer, pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, bladder cancer, brain cancer, bone cancer,
thyroid cancer, kidney cancer, or skin cancer.
         In particular embodiments, compositions comprising an immune effector cell genetically
modified with a vector comprising a promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide encoding an
engineered TCR or CAR that comprises an antigen-specific binding domain that binds an epitope
of PSCA or MUC 1 are used in the treatment of various cancers including but not limited to
pancreatic, bladder, and lung.
         In particular embodiments, compositions comprising an immune effector cell genetically
modified with a vector comprising a promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide encoding an
engineered TCR or CAR are used in the treatment of liquid tumors, including but a leukemia,
including acute leukemia (e.g., ALL, AML, and myeloblastic, promyelocytic, myelomonocytic,
monocytic and erythroleukemia), chronic leukemias (e.g.,CLL, SLL, CML, HCL), polycythemia
vera, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma,
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and heavy chain disease.
         In particular embodiments, compositions comprising an immune effector cell genetically
modified with a vector comprising a promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide encoding an
engineered TCR or CAR are used in the treatment of B-cell malignancies, including but not
limited to multiple myeloma (MM), non-Hodgkin' s lymphoma (NHL), and chronic lymphocytic
leukemia (CLL).
         Multiple myeloma is a B-cell malignancy of mature plasma cell morphology
characterized by the neoplastic transformation of a single clone of these types of cells. These
plasma cells proliferate in BM and may invade adjacent bone and sometimes the blood. Variant
forms of multiple myeloma include overt multiple myeloma, smoldering multiple myeloma,

                                                 - 85
plasma cell leukemia, non-secretory myeloma, IgD myeloma, osteosclerotic myeloma, solitary
plasmacytoma of bone, and extramedullary plasmacytoma (see, for example, Braunwald, et al.
(eds), Harrison' s Principles of Internal Medicine,15th Edition (McGraw-Hill 2001)).
         Non-Hodgkin lymphoma encompasses a large group of cancers of lymphocytes (white
blood cells). Non-Hodgkin lymphomas can occur at any age and are often marked by lymph
nodes that are larger than normal, fever, and weight loss. There are many different types of non
Hodgkin lymphoma. For example, non-Hodgkin' s lymphoma can be divided into aggressive
(fast-growing) and indolent (slow-growing) types. Although non-Hodgkin lymphomas can be
derived from B-cells and T-cells, as used herein, the term "non-Hodgkin lymphoma" and "B-cell
non-Hodgkin lymphoma" are used interchangeably. B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL)
include Burkitt lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma
(CLL/SLL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, immunoblastic large cell
lymphoma, precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma. Lymphomas that
occur after bone marrow or stem cell transplantation are usually B-cell non-Hodgkin
lymphomas.
         Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an indolent (slow-growing) cancer that causes a
slow increase in immature white blood cells called B lymphocytes, or B cells. Cancer cells
spread through the blood and bone marrow, and can also affect the lymph nodes or other organs
such as the liver and spleen. CLL eventually causes the bone marrow to fail. Sometimes, in later
stages of the disease, the disease is called small lymphocytic lymphoma.
         In particular embodiments, methods comprising administering a therapeutically effective
amount of modified T cells contemplated herein or a composition comprising the same, to a
patient in need thereof, alone or in combination with one or more therapeutic agents, are
provided. In certain embodiments, the cells of the invention are used in the treatment of patients
at risk for developing a cancer. Thus, the present invention provides methods for the treatment or
prevention of a cancer comprising administering to a subject in need thereof, a therapeutically
effective amount of the modified T cells of the invention.
         In one embodiment, a method of treating a cancer in a subject in need thereof comprises
administering an effective amount, e.g., therapeutically effective amount of a composition
comprising genetically modified immune effector cells contemplated herein. The quantity and

                                                     - 86
frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the condition of the patient, and
the type and severity of the patient's disease, although appropriate dosages may be determined by
clinical trials.
         In one embodiment, the amount of modified T cells in the composition administered to a
subject is at least 0.1 x 107 modified T cells/m2, at least 0.5 x 107 modified T cells/m2, at least 1
x 107 modified T cells/m2, at least 5 x 107 modified T cells/m2, at least 0.1 x 108 modified T
cells/m2, at least 0.5 x 108 modified T cells/m2, at least 1 x 108 modified T cells/m2, at least 5 x
108 modified T cells/m2, or at least 1 x 109 modified T cells/m2, or any intervening number of
modified T cells.
         The number of modified T cells administered to a subject are often only a subset of the
number of total cells administered to the subject. In a particular embodiment, the subject is
administered at least 0.1 x 107 total T cells, at least 0.5 x 107 total T cells, at least 1 x 107 total T
cells, at least 5 x 107 total T cells, at least 0.1 x 108 total T cells, at least 0.5 x 108 total T cells, at
least 1 x 108 total T cells, at least 5 x 108 total T cells, at least 0.1 x 109 total T cells, at least 0.5 x
109 total T cells, at least 1 x 109 total T cells, at least 5 x 109 total T cells, or at least 0.1 x 1010
total T cells or any intervening number of T cells.
         One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that multiple administrations of the
compositions of the invention may be required to effect the desired therapy. For example a
composition may be administered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more times over a span of 1
week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2
years, 5, years, 10 years, or more.
         In certain embodiments, it may be desirable to administer activated T cells to a subject
and then subsequently redraw blood (or have an apheresis performed), activate T cells therefrom
according to the present invention, and reinfuse the patient with these activated and expanded T
cells. This process can be carried out multiple times every few weeks. In certain embodiments,
T cells can be activated from blood draws of from 10cc to 400cc. In certain embodiments, T cells
are activated from blood draws of 20cc, 30cc, 40cc, 50cc, 60cc, 70cc, 80cc, 90cc, 100cc, 150cc,
200cc, 250cc, 300cc, 350cc, or 400cc or more. Not to be bound by theory, using this multiple
blood draw/multiple reinfusion protocol may serve to select out certain populations of T cells.

                                                  - 87
         The administration of the compositions contemplated herein may be carried out in any
convenient manner, including by aerosol inhalation, injection, ingestion, transfusion, implantation
or transplantation. In a preferred embodiment, compositions are administered parenterally. The
phrases "parenteral administration" and "administered parenterally" as used herein refers to
modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration, usually by injection, and
includes, without limitation, intravascular, intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial, intrathecal,
intracapsular, intraorbital, intratumoral, intracardiac, intradermal, intraperitoneal, transtracheal,
subcutaneous, subcuticular, intraarticular, subcapsular, subarachnoid, intraspinal and intrasternal
injection and infusion. In one embodiment, the compositions contemplated herein are
administered to a subject by direct injection into a tumor, lymph node, or site of infection.
         In one embodiment, a subject in need thereof is administered an effective amount of a
composition to increase a cellular immune response to a cancer in the subject. The immune
response may include cellular immune responses mediated by cytotoxic T cells capable of killing
infected cells, regulatory T cells, and helper T cell responses. Humoral immune responses,
mediated primarily by helper T cells capable of activating B cells thus leading to antibody
production, may also be induced. A variety of techniques may be used for analyzing the type of
immune responses induced by the compositions of the present invention, which are well
described in the art; e.g., Current Protocols in Immunology, Edited by: John E. Coligan, Ada M.
Kruisbeek, David H. Margulies, Ethan M. Shevach, Warren Strober (2001) John Wiley & Sons,
NY, N.Y.
         In the case of T cell-mediated killing, CAR-ligand binding initiates CAR signaling to the
T cell, resulting in activation of a variety of T cell signaling pathways that induce the T cell to
produce or release proteins capable of inducing target cell apoptosis by various mechanisms.
These T cell-mediated mechanisms include (but are not limited to) the transfer of intracellular
cytotoxic granules from the T cell into the target cell, T cell secretion of pro-inflammatory
cytokines that can induce target cell killing directly (or indirectly via recruitment of other killer
effector cells), and up regulation of death receptor ligands (e.g. FasL) on the T cell surface that
induce target cell apoptosis following binding to their cognate death receptor (e.g. Fas) on the
target cell.

                                                  - 88
         In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a subject diagnosed with
a cancer, comprising removing immune effector cells from the subject, genetically modifying
said immune effector cells with a vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding an engineered TCR
or CAR as contemplated herein, thereby producing a population of modified immune effector
cells, and administering the population of modified immune effector cells to the same subject. In
a preferred embodiment, the immune effector cells comprise T cells.
         In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides methods for stimulating an
immune effector cell mediated immune modulator response to a target cell population in a subject
comprising the steps of administering to the subject an immune effector cell population
expressing a nucleic acid construct encoding an engineered TCR or CAR molecule.
         The methods for administering the cell compositions described herein includes any
method which is effective to result in reintroduction of ex vivo genetically modified immune
effector cells that either directly express an engineered TCR or CAR in the subject or on
reintroduction of the genetically modified progenitors of immune effector cells that on
introduction into a subject differentiate into mature immune effector cells that express the
engineered TCR or CAR. One method comprises transducing peripheral blood T cells ex vivo
with a nucleic acid construct in accordance with the invention and returning the transduced cells
into the subject.
         All publications, patent applications, and issued patents cited in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication, patent application, or issued
patent were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
         Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration
and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be readily apparent to one of
ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and
modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended
claims. The following examples are provided by way of illustration only and not by way of
limitation. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of noncritical parameters that
could be changed or modified to yield essentially similar results.

-89-
                                                - 90
                                           EXAMPLES
         Adoptive Cellular Therapies (ACT) using autologous T cells engineered with Chimeric
Antigen Receptors (CAR) is still challenged by the lack of a simple and robust manufacturing
process. Due to the inherent complexity of live cell culture and patient to patient variability, it is
important to develop methods that are efficient, repeatable, and scalable. Furthermore,
development of a closed -system processing for ACT will be important in transforming ACT into
standard treatment for a large number of patients.
         Currently, existing T cell manufacturing methods include various complex steps for the
isolation, activation, transduction and expansion of CAR T cells. In contrast, the present
inventors used a small-scale research model to develop a simple, robust, well characterized,
flexible, closed system T cell manufacturing platform that was transferred to large-scale clinical
cGMP manufacturing process for engineered CAR T cells.
         The manufacturing consistently achieved an average of 6.75 (+/- 1.5) population doubling
levels in 10 days. Average transduction efficiencies were 65.3 % (+/- 12.4%). The purity of the
culture was consistently > 98% CD3 cells. Phenotypically, the T cells expressed surface markers
associated with tumor regression in animal models and clinical studies. In addition, the
engineered CAR T cells exhibited cytotoxicity of antigen expressed targets both in vitro and in
vivo.
                                           EXAMPLE 1
                             SMALL SCALE MANUFACTURING PLATFORM
         A novel small scale manufacturing platform was established that was simple, reliable, and
reproducible. The manufacturing platform was less complex and more robust than existing
methods and implemented minimal manipulations in regards to activation, transduction, and
expansion of CAR T cells. In addition, CAR T cells manufactured by the methods contemplated
herein produced comparable, if not superior, engineered CAR T cell therapeutics produced by
existing methods.

                                               - 91
        1.      Harvesting PBMCs
        PBMCs were used as the source of T cells for the small-scale research manufacturing
platform. PBMCs from a whole blood draw can be manual isolation using a FICOLLTM gradient
and washing. In this experiment, frozen PBMCs were used. Frozen vials of PBMCs were
thawed in a 37 'C water bath. Once thawed, the PBMCs were transferred to a 50mL conical tube
containing ~20-30 mL of warm TCGM media then centrifuges at 175 x g for 10 minutes. The
supernatant was removed and the cell pellet was resuspended in a small volume of TCGM
containing 250 IU/mL IL-2. An aliquot of the resuspended cells was counted via a multisizer or
hemacytometer and the number of viable cells was determined.
        2.      Culture Initiation and Activation
        At Day 0 (DO), PBMCs were seeded in T25 culture flasks at 1 x 106 cells/mL in a total
volume of 10 mL TCGM with 250 IU/mL IL-2. T cells were activated by adding 5 uL of anti
CD3 antibody at 100 ng/uL and 5 uL of anti-CD28 antibody at 100 ng/uL to the culture. Once
the PBMC cultures were set up, they were incubated lying down in a 37'C, 5% CO 2 incubator
until Day 1 (D1) for subsequent transduced cells or until Day 3 (D3) if cells were not
subsequently transduced.
        3.      Transduction
        The titer of CAR T lentiviral vectors was determined. Cells were transduced at 1-2 x 108
TU/106 PBMCs (number of PBMCs plated at DO). Virus was diluted in TCGM + IL-2 to a
volume of 2 mL or 20% v/v of the culture volume. Cells were transduced with virus for about 48
hours, until Day 3 (D3).
        Several experiments determined that the transduction was most efficient at about 20 to 24
hours following activation of the cells. Cells were transduced with a GFP expressing lentivirus at
1-2 x 108 TU/10 6 PBMCs at DO, D1, and D2. Following transduction, GFP expressing cells were
isolated by FACS analysis in order to determine the percentage of various types of T cells
transduced and the vector copy number (VCN) of the transduced cells. GFP expressing cells
were analyzed based on T cell marker expression. More transduced cells expressing GFP and the
T cell markers CD3, CD8, or CD4 were identified when the cells were transduced 20 to 24 hours

                                                - 92
(D1) after activation. Figure 1. In addition, the VCN was higher in cells transduced 20 to 24
hours (D1) after activation. Figure 1.
         Additional experiments determined that transduction efficiency T cells activated using
soluble CD3 and CD28 ligands was comparable to the transduction efficiency of T cells activated
by other methods. PBMCs were activated using (i) plate bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies at a concentration of lug/mL for 20-24 hours; (ii) soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies at a concentration of 50 ng/mL for 20-24 hours hours; and enriched lymphocytes from
the same source as the PBMCs were activated using (iii) bead bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies, CD3/CD28 Dynabeads were used at a ratio of 3 beads to 1 Tcell for 20-24 hours.
After activation, the cells were transduced with an anti-CD 19 expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108
TU/1 06 PBMCs. More transduced cells expressing an anti-CD 19 CAR and the T cell markers
CD3, CD8, or CD4 were identified when the cells were activated with soluble anti-CD3 and anti
CD28 antibodies compared to other methods. Figure 2. In addition, the VCN was also higher in
cells activated with soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. Figure 2.
         Experiments also determined that activation and transduction in cell culture bags was
comparable to transduction in flasks. PBMCs were activated at DO using soluble anti-CD3 and
anti-CD28 antibodies at a concentration of 50 ng/mL for 20-24 hours. After activation, the cells
were transduced with a kappaLc expressing lentivirus at 3 x 108 TU/1 06 PBMCs at D1. The
number of transduced cells expressing kappaLc and the T cell markers CD3, CD8, or CD4 was
comparable when the cells were activated and transduced in either cell culture bags or flasks.
Figure 3.
         4.      Expansion
         T cell expansion among PBMCs activated by different methods was also determined.
PBMCs were activated using (i) plate bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies at a
concentration of lug/mL for 20-24 hours; (ii) soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies at a
concentration of 50 ng/mL for 20-24 hours; and (iii) bead bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies, Dynabeads were used at a ratio of 3:1 beads: Tcells for 20-24 hours. After activation,
the cells were transduced with an anti-CD19 CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/1 06
PBMCs. Activated and transduced cells were cultured for expansion for up to 10 days. Cell

                                                - 93
expansion among PBMCs activated by the three methods was comparable throughout the
duration of the expansion culture period. Figure 4.
         PBMCs from multiple donors that were subjected to the T cells manufacturing methods
contemplated herein showed reproducible and robust expansion, CAR cell surface expression,
and VCN. PBMCs were activated using soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies at a
concentration of 50 ng/mL for 20-24 hours. Activated cells were transduced with an anti-CD 19
CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/1 06 PBMCs. Activated and transduced cells from
multiple donors cultured for 10 days showed comparable growth rates among each other and
untransduced control (UTD). Figure 5. Figure 5 also shows the number of lymphocytes present
at day 10 in each expanded culture. FACS analysis determined that anti-CD19 expression was
comparable among the cell products generated from different patients, with an average of about
61% marking and a range of 29% to 80% (n=5). Figure 6. qPCR also demonstrated that the
VCN among the cell products was comparable. Figure 6.
         5.      Antigen Specific Tumor Clearance
         Antigen specific tumor clearance by T cells activated using soluble antibodies was as
good as, or better than T cells activated using other methods. PBMCs were activated using (i)
plate bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies at a concentration of lug/mL for 20-24 hours;
(ii) soluble anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies at a concentration of 50 ng/mL for 20-24 hours;
and (iii) bead bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, Dynabeads were used at a ratio of 3:1
beads: Tcells for 20-24 hours. After activation, the cells were transduced with an anti-CD19
CAR expressing lentivirus at 1-2 x 108 TU/106 PBMCs. Activated and transduced cells were
cultured for expansion for up to 10 days. The therapeutic anti-CD 19 CAR T cells were co
cultured with CD 19 expressing Daudi cells or non-CD 19 expressing K562 cells. After 10 days of
co-culture anti-CD 19 CAR T cells activated using soluble antibodies killed Daudi cells as well
as, or better than, anti-CD19 CAR T cells activated using the other methods. Figure 7 and Figure
8.
         6.       The Small-Scale Manufacturing Platform
         Overall, the small-scale manufacturing platform was used to develop a 10 day T cell
expansion process: at DO, PBMCs are plated at a density of 1 x 106 cells/mL and activated using

                                               - 94
50 ng/mL of anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies for about 24 hours; at D1, activated PBMCs
were transduced with 2 x 108 TU/10 6 cells for about 24 hours to 48 hours; D3 to D9, transduced
cells are expanded and reseeded to maintain log-phase growth. The T cell manufacturing process
typically results in a 100-600 fold expansion of T cells depending on donor.
         The foregoing experiments identified important elements for transferring the small scale
research process to a large-scale clinical cGMP manufacturing process. The elements are shown
in Table 1

                                                    - 95
Table 1.
Starting Material             PBMC
Media Formulation             TCGM: XVIVO-15, supplemented with 5% HABS, 2 mM Glutamax, 10 mM
                              HEPES, and 250 IU/mL of IL-2 (and optionally IL7 and/or IL-15)
Activation Method             50 ng/mL soluble anti-CD3 and 50 ng/mL soluble anti-CD28 antibodies
Transduction                  Transduction 20-24 hours post-activation
Expansion                     Cells maintained in log-phase growth by seeding back at concentration of
                              0.3 x 106 cells/mL to 0.5 x 106 cells/mL
         7.       Platform Robustness
         Manufacturing platform robustness was demonstrated by designing, manufacturing and
evaluating multiple lentiviral CAR constructs. Constructs varied with regard to promoter, scFV,
+/- linker, hinge, transmembrane regions and signaling domains used. Figure 16.
         CAR-encoding lentiviral vector (LV) supernatants were produced in HEK 293T cells as
described elsewhere (e.g., Naldini et al., 1996, Dull et al., 1998 and Zufferey et al., 1998). 293
cells are transient transfected with 4-plasmids: a plasmid encoding HIV gag-pol, a plasmid
encoding the VSV-G envelope protein, a plasmid encoding HIV rev protein, and a lentiviral
transfer vector encoding a CAR, e.g., Figure 16.
         CAR T cells were manufactured as described in Example 1, supra. The various CAR T
cell products showed comparable growth rates as determined by population doublings (Figure
17A); qPCR showed that the VCN was comparable among the different CAR T cells, with
approximately 1 to 4 copies per cell (Figure 17B); and comparable cell surface expression of the
different CAR construct was shown by FACS; percent marking ranged from about 40% to 60%
depending on construct (Figure 17C).
         8.       Generation of a Functional CART Drug Product
         Anti-BCMA expressing CAR T cells were manufactured as described in Example 1,
supra. These CAR T cells showed antigen specific tumor clearance. Anti-BCMA expressing

                                              - 96
CAR T cells were co-cultured for 4 hours with K562 cells, or K562 cells modified to express
BCMA. Antigen expressing tumor cells were labeled with carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester
(CFSE) and fluorescence was measured by FACS. Anti-BCMA expressing CAR T cells killed
BCMA expressing K562 cells (Figure 18A) and released IFN-(Figure 18B). (n=3).
                                          EXAMPLE 2
                    TRANSLATION OF SMALL SCALE RESEARCH PLATFORM TO
              LARGE SCALE CLINICAL cGMP DRUG MANUFACTURING PLATFORM
        The small-scale research process allowed for higher throughput evaluation of CAR
constructs with assurance that data would be comparable for large scale cGMP drug
manufacturing platform. This example provides data from representative experiments performed
using the large scale clinical cGMP drug manufacturing platform.
        1.      Comparison Between Small-Scale and Large-Scale Manufacturing Methods
        Figure 9 shows a flowchart comparison of the small-scale research T cell manufacturing
platform and the scaled up clinical cGMP dug manufacturing platform. CAR T cells were
manufactured using the procedures outlined in Example 1. For large-scale manufacturing, e.g.,
Figures 10-12, CAR T cells were manufactured as follows:
        Harvest. Cells were harvested by leukapheresis using a Spectra Optia@ Apheresis
System or equivalent. Starting volumes of leukapheresis products used in the manufacturing
process were about 100 mL to about 200 mL. Aliquots of the cells were counted, viability
determined, cryopreserved, and characterized for PBMCs using FACS analysis.
        Isolation. PBMCs were isolated using a closed system FICOLLTM gradient on the Cell
Savers 5+ Autologous Blood Recovery System (Haemonetics). Post FICOLLTM, the buffy coat
was washed with CliniMACS buffer w/ 2% HABS and then resuspended in TCGM with 250IU
IU/mL IL-2. Pre- and post-wash cell counts, viability, and PBMC FACS analysis were
performed.
        Cryopreservation. Particular embodiments of the large-scale manufacturing method
comprise cryopreservation of the PBMCs after isolation and prior to any further downstream
manufacturing. PBMCs are cryopreserved in TCFM and frozen in a controlled rate freezer at a

                                                 - 97
temperature of about -80'C to about -135'C at a rate of 1 per minute in a controlled rate freezer
and stored in the vapor phase of a liquid nitrogen storage tank.
         DAY 0: Culture Initiation/Activation - Bags, Fresh Cells. 1 x 108 PBMCs at a
density of 1 x 106 PBMCs/mL in TCGM with 250 IU/mL IL-2 were seeded into 100 mL
MACS® GMP Cell Differentiation Bags. PBMCs were activated by adding 50 ng/mL of anti
CD3 antibody and 50 ng/mL of anti-CD28 antibody to the culture and cultured for about 24
hours.
         DAY 0: Culture Initiation/Activation - Bags, Frozen Cells. Particular embodiments
of the large-scale manufacturing process comprise using frozen PBMCs. Frozen PBMCs are
thawed in a 37'C water bath and washed in TCGM with 250 IU/mL IL-2. 1 x 108 thawed
PBMCs in TCGM with 250 IU/mL IL-2 were seeded into 100 mL MACS® GMP Cell
Differentiation Bags. Thawed PBMCs were activated by adding 50 ng/mL of anti-CD3 antibody
and 50 ng/mL of anti-CD28 antibody to the culture and cultured for about 24 hours.
         DAY 0: Culture Initiation/Activation - GREX Bioreactor. Particular embodiments
of the large-scale manufacturing process comprise manufacturing T cells in a GREX bioreactor.
1 x 108 PBMCs in TCGM with 250 IU/mL IL-2 were seeded in 100 mL of TCGM into a GREX
100. PBMCs were activated by adding 50 ng/mL of anti-CD3 antibody and 50 ng/mL of anti
CD28 antibody to the culture and cultured for about 24 hours.
         Day 1: Transduction. Activated cells were transduced with 1-2 x 109 TU of
lentivirus/10 8 PBMCs. Lentivirus was diluted in TCGM to 20% of the culture volume. For
example if the culture volume was 100 mL TCGM, the virus was diluted in TCGM to yield a
maximum volume of 20 mL added to the culture. Cells were transduced for about 48 hours.
         Day 3 to Day 10: Expansion. Transduced cells are expanded in TCGM containing 250
IU/mL of IL-2 for 5 to 8 days. At each of the one or more days of expansion, aliquots of the cells
were optionally taken and cells were counted, viability determined, cryopreserved, and
characterized for PBMCs using FACS analysis. Cultures were reseeded as necessary at a density
of 0.3 x 106 PBMCs/mL to 0.5 x 106 PBMCs/mL in order to keep the cells growing in log phase.
For cell culture bag-based manufacturing, at Day 7 cells were optionally transferred to a WAVE
bioreactor until Day 10 to allow for further expansion. In one embodiment, cell counts were done
on days 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9 and/or 10. In one embodiment, if the cells are not reaching target

                                                - 98
levels of expansion by day 7 then they can be transferred to WAVE bioreactor with perfusion of
media at 2L/day for days 8 and 9 to allow for increased expansion.
         For GREX-based manufacturing, cells were continuously cultured in the GREX
bioreactor for the entire expansion period.
         Day 10: Recovery and Cryopreservation. Expanded cells were recovered and washed
on a Cell Saver® 5+Autologous Blood Recovery System. Cells were washed with 2L of 0.9%
NaCl and then a final wash was performed with PlasmaLyte. Pre- and post-recovery cell counts,
viability, and FACS analysis were performed to determine purity and identity of the CAR T
cells. Recovered cells were optionally cryopreserved in 50% plasmalyte and 50% Cryostor 10;
50/40/10 (XVIVO/HABS/DMSO); or Cryostor 10and frozen in a controlled rate freezer at a
temperature of about -80'C to about -135'C at a rate of 1 per minute in a controlled rate freezer
and stored in the vapor phase of a liquid nitrogen storage tank.
         2.      Cell Phenotypes are Comparable in Final Cell Products Between Small
                 Scale and Large-Scale Manufacturing Methods
         CAR T cells were manufactured using small-scale methods described in Example 1 and
the large-scale methods described in Example 2, supra. The final cell products were subjected to
FACS analysis for expression of CD4, CD8, CAR T construct, CD56, and CD62L cell surface
markers to determine any differences in the cell composition of the final product. No significant
differences in phenotype of the final CAR T products between the research and clinical scale
platforms were observed. p_0.20 for all surface markers between the two plat forms. (n=3).
Figure 13.
         3.      Simplified Cell Processing for PBMC Isolation & T cell Harvest
         One of the chief advantages of the manufacturing methods contemplated herein is the
implementation of closed system processing steps. PBMCs were harvested by leukapheresis and
isolated and washed using a Cell Saver® 5+ Autologous Blood Recovery System (Haemonetics).
The Cell Saver® 5+ was also used for the recovery and washing of the final manufactured CAR
T cell products.
         The final PBMC and CAR T products were characterized over multiple experiment (n =
18) to demonstrate the remarkably consistent purity of the cellular composition of the starting

                                                 - 99
material and final products. Figure 14. Utilization of the closed system approach simplified
manufacturing and minimized the equipment needed for cGMP processing
         4.      Manufacturing Process Flexibility
         In order to address patient to patient variability, and ensure that required dose levels of
CAR T cells products could be achieved, multiple devices for the expansion of CAR T cells were
compared to show the flexibility offered by the contemplated manufacturing process. Small
scale (T25 flask) and large-scale (GREX100, static cell culture bags, and WAVE bioreactor)
manufacturing processes were performed as described supra. Cells manufactured by the different
manufacturing methods showed comparable growth rates and expanded cell numbers over a 10
day culture period. Figure 15A. FACS analysis showed that the amount of CD3CAR + cells
was consistent between the manufacturing methods. Figure 15B. In addition, the VCN of the
CD3/CAR+ cells was comparable among the various manufacturing methods tested. Figure
15B. These results demonstrate that the contemplated T cell manufacturing methods were
flexible and produced comparable final cell products.
         In general, in the following claims, the terms used should not be construed to limit the
claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims, but should be
construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which
such claims are entitled. Accordingly, the claims are not limited by the disclosure.
         Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or
method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of
elements or integers or method steps.
         The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054684
                                     _docx-25/052018
                                                              - 100
CLAIMS:
               1.           A method for manufacturing a T cell therapeutic comprising:
                             a)           obtaining a population of cells that comprises T cells and antigen
presenting cells (APCs);
                            b)            culturing the population of cells in a cell culture medium comprising i)
one or more cytokines, ii) an anti-CD3 antibody or CD3-binding fragment thereof, and iii) an
anti-CD28 antibody or a CD28-binding fragment thereof, B7-1 or a CD28-binding fragment
thereof, or B7-2 or a CD28-binding fragment thereof, wherein the culture activates and
stimulates the T cells;
                             c)           transducing the population of activated cells with a viral vector; and
                             d)           culturing the population of cells in a cell growth medium to expand the
transduced T cells;
                             thereby manufacturing the T cell therapeutic.
               2.            The method of Claim 1, wherein the population of cells is obtained from
peripheral blood, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph nodes tissue, cord
blood, thymus issue, tissue from a site of infection, ascites, pleural effusion, spleen tissue, or
tumors.
               3.            The method of Claim 1, wherein the T cells are obtained from peripheral
blood, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph nodes tissue, cord blood,
thymus issue, tissue from a site of infection, ascites, pleural effusion, spleen tissue, tumors,
or a T cell line.
               4.            The method of Claim 1, wherein the APCs are obtained from peripheral
blood, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph nodes tissue, cord blood,
thymus issue, tissue from a site of infection, ascites, pleural effusion, spleen tissue, or
tumors.
               5.            The method of Claim 1, wherein the population of cells comprises
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).
               6.            The method of any one of Claims I to 5, wherein harvesting or obtaining
the population of cells comprises leukapheresis.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054684
                                     _docx-25/052018
                                                       - 101
               7.            The method of any one of Claims I to 5, wherein isolating the population of
cells comprises sedimentation.
               8.            The method of Claim 7, wherein the sedimentation comprises a FICOLLTM
or a PERCOLLT                  M   gradient.
               9.            The method of Claim 7 or Claim 8, wherein the sedimentation is performed
using a semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge.
               10.           The method of Claim 9, wherein the semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge
is a Cobe 2991 cell processor, a Cell Saver 5+, or an Elutra.
               11.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 10, further comprising washing the
population of cells in a buffer or cell culture medium.
               12.           The method of Claim 11, wherein the population of cells are washed in T
cell growth medium (TCGM) containing one or more cytokines.
               13.           The method of Claim 12, wherein the one or more cytokines in the TCGM
are selected from the group consisting of: IL-2, IL7, IL-15, IL-9, and IL-21.
               14.           The method of Claim 13, wherein the cytokine is IL-2.
               15.           The method of Claim 14, wherein the concentration of IL-2 is about 250
IU/mL.
               16.           The method of any one of Claims 11 to 15, wherein the isolated population
of cells comprises PBMCs.
               17.           The method of Claim 16, wherein the population of cells is cryopreserved in
a controlled rate freezer.
               18.           The method of Claim 17, wherein the cryopreserved population of cells is
thawed.
               19.           The method of Claim 1 or Claim 18, wherein the population of cells is
seeded for culturing in step (b) in TCGM at a density of about 1 x 106 cells/mL.
               20.           The method of Claim 19, wherein the population of cells is cultured in a cell
culture bag or a bioreactor.
               21.           The method of any one of Claims 19 to 20, wherein the TCGM comprises
one or more cytokines selected from the group consisting of: IL-2, IL7, IL-15, IL-9, and
IL-21.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054684
                                     _docx-25/052018
                                                       - 102
               22.           The method of Claim 21, wherein the one or more cytokines are selected
from the group consisting of: IL-2, IL-7, and IL-15.
               23.           The method of Claim 21, wherein the one or more cytokines comprise IL-2.
               24.           The method of any one of Claims 21 to 23, wherein the concentration of the
one or more cytokines is about 250 IU/mL.
               25.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 24, wherein the population of cells is
cultured with a soluble anti-CD3 antibody and a soluble anti-CD28 antibody.
               26.           The method of Claim 24, wherein the concentration of the anti-CD3
antibody is about 50 ng/mL.
               27.           The method of Claim 25, wherein the concentration of the anti-CD28
antibody is about 50 ng/mL.
               28.           The method of any one of Claims I to 27, wherein the population of cells of
step b) is cultured for about 12 hours to about 48 hours prior to transduction.
               29.           The method of any one of Claims I to 27, wherein the population of cells of
step b) is transduced at the time of activation.
               30.           The method of any one of Claims I to 27, wherein the population of cells of
step b) is cultured for about 1 hour to about 12 hours prior to transduction.
               31.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 27, wherein the population of cells of
step b) is cultured for about 16 hours to about 32 hours prior to transduction.
               32.           The method of any one of Claims I to 27, wherein the population of cells of
step b) is cultured for at least 18 hours prior to transduction.
               33.           The method of any one of Claims I to 27, wherein the population of cells of
step b) is cultured for at least 24 hours prior to transduction.
               34.           The method of any one of Claims I to 33, wherein the population of cells of
step d) is transduced with a retroviral vector.
               35.           The method of any one of Claims I to 34, wherein the population of cells of
step d) is transduced with a lentiviral vector.
               36.           The method of any one of Claim 19 to 35, wherein about I x 109 TU to
about 2 x 109 TU of viral vector are used to transduce the 1 x 108 seeded cells.
               37.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 36, wherein the viral vector is diluted
to 20% v/v of the total culture volume.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054684
                                     _docx-25/052018
                                                              - 103
               38.           The method of any one of Claims I to 36, wherein the viral vector is diluted
to about 40% to about 50% v/v of the total culture volume.
               39.           The method of any one of Claims I to 38, wherein the population of cells is
transduced for about 18 to about 48 hours.
               40.           The method of any one of Claims I to 38, wherein the population of cells is
transduced for about 18 to about 36 hours.
               41.           The method of any one of Claims I to 38, wherein the population of cells is
transduced for about 24 hours.
               42.           The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 41, wherein the viral
vector comprises a polynucleotide encoding a chimeric antigen receptor.
               43.           The method of 42, wherein the CAR comprises
                             a)           an extracellular domain that binds an antigen selected from the group
consisting of: alpha folate receptor, 5T4, av36 integrin, BCMA, B7-H3, B7-H6, CAIX, CD19,
CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD44, CD44v6, CD44v7/8, CD70, CD79a, CD79b, CD123,
CD138, CD171, CEA, CSPG4, EGFR, EGFR family including ErbB2 (HER2), EGFRvIII,
EGP2, EGP40, EPCAM, EphA2, EpCAM, FAP, fetal AchR, FRa., GD2, GD3, 'Glypican-3
(GPC3), HLA-A1+MAGE1, HLA-A2+MAGE1, HLA-A3+MAGE1, HLA-A1+NY-ESO-1,
HLA-A2+NY-ESO-1, HLA-A3+NY-ESO-1, IL-1 Ra, IL-13Ra2, Lambda, Lewis-Y, Kappa,
Mesothelin, Mucd, Muc16, NCAM, NKG2D Ligands, NY-ESO-i, PRAME, PSCA, PSMA,
RORi, SSX, Survivin, TAG72, TEMs, and VEGFR2;
                            b)            a transmembrane domain derived from a polypeptide selected from the
group consisting of: CD8pCD4, CD28, CD45, PDi, a nd CD152;
                             c)           one or more intracellular co-stimulatory signaling domains selected
from the group consisting of: CD28, CD54 (ICAM), CD134 (OX40), CD137 (41BB), CD152
(CTLA4), CD273 (PD-L2), CD274 (PD-Li), and CD278 (ICOS); and
                             d)           a CD3(signaling domain.
               44.           The method of Claim 43, wherein the extracellular domain comprises an
antibody or antigen binding fragment that binds the antigen.
               45.           The method of Claim 43, wherein the transmembrane domain is derived
from CD8cor CD28.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054684
                                     _docx-25/052018
                                                       - 104
               46.           The method of Claim 43, wherein the one or more co-stimulatory signaling
domains selected from the group consisting of: CD28, CD134, and CD137.
               47.           The method of Claim 43, further comprising a hinge region polypeptide.
               48.           The method of Claim 47, wherein the hinge region polypeptide comprises a
hinge region of IgGI or CD8a
               49.           The method of Claim 43, further comprising a signal peptide.
               50.           The method of Claim 49, wherein the signal peptide comprises an IgG1
heavy chain signal polypeptide, a CD80signal polyp eptide, or a human GM-CSF receptor
alpha signal polypeptide.
               51.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 50, wherein the population of cells in
step d) is cultured for expansion for about 5 to about 8 days.
               52.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 50, wherein the population of cells in
step d) is cultured for expansion for about 5 days to about 8 days in a cell culture bag.
               53.           The method of any one of Claims I to 50, wherein the population of cells in
step d) is cultured for expansion for about 5 days in a cell culture bag and then cultured for
about 3 days in a bioreactor.
               54.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 50, wherein the population of cells in
step d) is cultured for expansion for about 5 days to about 8 days in a bioreactor.
               55.           The method of Claim 53 or Claim 54 wherein the bioreactor is a WAVE
bioreactor or a GREX bioreactor.
               56.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 50 fold during the culture of step d).
               57.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 100 fold during the culture of step d).
               58.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 200 fold during the culture of step d).
               59.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 300 fold during the culture of step d).
               60.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 400 fold during the culture of step d).

                                      Idocx-25/052018
C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17054684
                                                       - 105
               61.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 500 fold during the culture of step d).
               62.           The method of any one of Claims I to 55, wherein the number of T cells is
expanded at least 600 fold during the culture of step d).
               63.           The method of any one of Claims 1 to 62, wherein the method further
comprises recovering the manufactured T cell therapeutic.
               64.           The method of Claim 63, wherein recovering the T cell therapeutic
comprises concentrating and washing the cells expanded in step d).
               65.           The method of Claim 64, wherein the T cell therapeutic is concentrated and
washed using a semiautomated flowthrough centrifuge.
               66.           The method of Claim 65, wherein the semiautomated flowthrough
centrifuge is a Cell Saver 5+ or LOVO.
               67.           The method of any one of Claims 63 to 66, wherein the method further
comprises cryopreserving the T cell therapeutic.
               68.           The method of Claim 67, wherein the cryopreserved T cells are thawed for
use in a method of adoptive cell therapy.
               69.          A composition comprising the manufactured T cells of any one of Claims 1
to 68 and a physiologically acceptable excipient.
               70.          A method of treating a malignancy in a subject in need thereof, comprising
administering to the subject the T cell therapeutic of Claim 69.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
