   ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to gram positive bacteria with increased stress resistance
   and/or improved storage characteristics. In particular, the invention relates to gram
 5 positive bacterium which accumulate intracellular trehalose. The gram positive bacterium
   according to the invention lack cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component (PtcC)
   activity. The gram                 positive bacterium may further lack trehalose 6-phosphate
   phosphorylase (TrePP) activity. The gram positive bacterium may further overexpress
   trehalose transporters. The invention further relates to compositions comprising such
10 gram positive bacterium as well as methods and uses thereof.
   9736227 1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   1
                       MODIFIED GRAM POSITIVE BACTERIA AND USES THEREOF
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The present invention relates to microorganisms, such gram positive bacteria, with
   improved stress resistance and improved manufacturing, processing and storage
   characteristics. The invention in particular relates to genetically modified microorganisms
   which accumulate intracellular trehalose. The invention further relates to uses of these
   microorganisms in food technology and medical applications.
10
   The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent Application
   No. 2012311479 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present specification.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15
   Gram-positive bacteria are collectively classified as having a single lipid bilayer plasma
   membrane. Gram positive bacteria include a multitude of bacilliform and cocciform
   bacterial genera, among which Bifidobacteria and a group of genera collectively known
   as lactic acid bacteria (LAB). LAB comprise a clade of Gram-positive, low-GC, acid
20 tolerant, generally non-sporulating, non-respiring rod or cocci that are associated by their
   common metabolic and physiological characteristics. These bacteria, usually found in
   (decomposing) plants and dairy products, produce lactic acid as the major metabolic
   end-product of carbohydrate fermentation. This trait has, throughout history, linked LAB
   with food fermentations, as acidification inhibits the growth of spoilage agents. A
25 prototype LAB Lactococcus lactis is a mesophilic and microaerophilic fermenting lactic
   acid bacterium. While the bacterium is extensively used in food fermentations, especially
   in the dairy industry, there is an increasing interest for its use in medicaments and
   nutraceuticals, as medication to treat infections in bodily cavities such as vaginal
   infections, or as carrier for the delivery of biological active molecules. In all those cases,
30 there is a need for highly viable starter cultures, or pharmaceutical or nutraceutical
   formulations comprising a high proportion of viable bacteria. L. lactis, however, tends to
   lose viability during storage, or during processing (for a.o the production of a dry powder
   formula, tablet formation,...). The drop in viability is even more pronounced when the
   bacterium after lyophilisation is submitted to additional stress such as high acidity or the
35 presence of bile salts.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   2
   Several methods have been proposed to overcome this problem. The use of trehalose
   is of particular interest. Trehalose (a-D-glucopyranosyl-1,1-a-D-glucopyranoside) is a
   non-reducing disaccharide that occurs in a large variety of organisms, ranging from
 5 bacteria to invertebrate animals. Trehalose, sometimes in combination with dextran, is
   often used as and externally added cryopreservant. Externally added trehalose functions
   as a saccharide matrix (Conrad et al., 2000, ), and exerts it protective effect especially
   during freeze drying, where it acts as a glass former. Moreover, trehalose is well
   recognized as stress metabolite, and it has been extensively studied in fungi, especially
10 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. High concentrations of internal trehalose do improve the
   storage capacity and result in a higher viability upon cryopreservation. However, it is
   important to note that externally added trehalose rarely leads to internal trehalose
   accumulation in micro-organisms, either because it is not taken up, or it is metabolized
   rapidly after uptake.
15
   Termont et al. (Appl Environ Microbiol 72:7694; 2006) reported that de-novo synthesized
   trehalose, through plasmid driven overexpression of otsA (trehalose-6-phosphate
   synthase) and otsB (trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase) accumulates intracellularly in
   L. lactis. Intracellular trehalose accumulation but not exogenously added trehalose
20 protects L. lactis from bile lysis and cell death through freeze-drying. As L. lactis is
   extremely sensitive, protection to bile lysis can be used as a superb functional assay of
   intracellular trehalose accumulation.
   Andersson et al. (J Biol Chem 276:42707; 2001) have described a novel pathway for
25 trehalose utilization in L. lactis. This pathway employs the activity of trehalose-6
   phosphate phosphorylase (trePP), converting trehalose-6-phosphate to p-glucose 1
   phosphate and glucose 6-phosphate. They describe insertional inactivation of trePP in
   L. lactis, resulting in loss of capacity to grow on trehalose.
30 For the intracellular accumulation of trehalose, Carvalho et al. (Appl Environ Microbiol
   77:4189; 2011) describe a method that makes use of plasmid driven overexpression of
   L. lactis trePP and p-phosphoglucomutase (pgmB). As indicated by these authors, given
   that the bacteria lack trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase, the respective gene, otsB,
   from food-grade organism P. freudenreichii was used to provide the required activity.
35 The resulting cells showed improved resistance to cold shock, heat shock and acidity.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  3
   However, the authors indicated that at least 67% of the trehalose produced was found in
   the growth medium. Hence the produced trehalose appears not to be efficiently retained
   or accumulated intracellularly.
 5 Although these processes certainly lead to an improvement of the storage, there is a
   further need of methods that can lead to an improved storage of gram positive bacteria,
   such as LAB or Bifidobacteria, not only in those cases where the bacterium is used for
   the delivery of biological active compounds in medical applications, but also when the
   bacterium is used in the food industry, such as the dairy industry.
10
   Lowes et al. 2006 (Oral Microbiol Immunol. 21(1): 21-7) discloses certain mutants of
   Streptococcus mutans bacterium, which he denotes as PTS system 11C component
   (PtcC) mutants. S. mutans as studied by Lowes is a pathogen causing dental caries, and
   Lowes is ultimately concerned with investigating genomic variability of S. mutans in the
15 context of its pathogenicity. Utilisation of beta-glucoside carbohydrate sources may play
   a role in pathogenicity and survival of S. mutans, and PtcC is investigated from this
   perspective. Lowes does not suggest any role of PtcC in internal accumulation of
   trehalose, nor in improving stress resistance of bacteria. Notably, Lowes et al. 2006
   studies metabolism of beta-glucosides, whereas trehalose is an alpha-glucoside. Lowes
20 does not concern PtcC mutants of non-pathogenic bacteria or any utility of such mutants.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   Intracellular trehalose can protect microorganisms such as lactic acid bacteria (LAB), for
25 instance Lactococcus lactis cells, from various detrimental agents or conditions.
   Examples are bile acid lysis, experienced by live LAB during intestinal transit, or freezing
   and/or drying stress during freezing, drying, spray drying, lyophylization, as used for
   preservation of LAB.
30 Only a limited number of approaches are available that allow for the accumulation of
   trehalose inside the cell. These make use of plasmid driven overexpression of
   homologous or heterologous genes. This is however not a desirable configuration for
   use in pharmaceutical or food products.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  4
   Here we report a novel approach that allows for the intracellular accumulation of
   trehalose, based merely on the absence of cellobiose-specific PTS system || C
   component (PtcC) activity in gram positive bacteria, preferably through rendering the
   gene encoding endogenous PtcC partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated
 5 such as being incapable of producing functional ptcC gene product. The inventors have
   unexpectedly observed that over time the accumulated trehalose leaks to some extent
   out of the cells through an up to now unanticipated and unidentified trehalose exit port,
   whereby the trehalose can be detected in the supernatant. Surprisingly, they found that
   inactivation of ptcC prevents release of trehalose. These findings are all the more
10 unexpected, because PtcC up to now has never been associated with trehalose transport,
   and has not been suggested as a trehalose exit port responsible for trehalose leakage
   and release into the surroundings. Also surprisingly, the known and characterized
   trehalose transporters do not seem responsible for this mechanism of trehalose leakage.
15 In an aspect, the invention relates to a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a
   non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacking cellobiose-specific PTS system || C component (PtcC) activity.
   A further aspect provides gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic
20 gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   lacking PtcC activity for use as a medicament. Such medicaments may for example
   encompass pharmaceutical formulations, nutraceuticals, medical foods or functional
   foods, or probiotics.
25 In another aspect, the invention provides for a medicament, a starter culture, a probiotic
   composition, or a food additive, more specifically a non-medicinal probiotic composition
   or food additive, comprising a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity. Without limitation, such food additive may be a
30 starter culture, preferably a starter culture for the preparation of a food product. Hence,
   a related aspect provides a starter culture, preferably a starter culture for the preparation
   of a food product, comprising a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   5
   In another aspect, the invention provides the use of a gram positive bacterium, preferably
   a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as a medicament,
   starter culture, probiotic and/or food additive, more specifically as a non-medicinal starter
   culture, probiotic, or food additive. Without limitation, such food additive may be a starter
 5 culture, preferably a starter culture for the preparation of a food product. Hence, a related
   aspect provides the use of a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as a starter culture, preferably a starter
   culture for the preparation of a food product, more particularly wherein the food product
   is a non-medicinal food product.
10
   Also provided by an aspect of the invention is a method for preparing a food product,
   comprising admixing a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic
   gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   lacking PtcC activity, or said food additive or said starter culture with a substrate material
15 that is capable of being fermented by the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic
   acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In embodiments, such method may further
   comprise the step of fermenting said substrate material. As well provided is thus a food
   product obtainable by any such method. A food product may encompass without
   limitation probiotics.
20
   Another aspect provides a method for preparing a medicament, such as a
   pharmaceutical formulation, nutraceutical, medical food or functional food or probiotic,
   or for preparing a probiotic composition or food additive, more specifically a non
   medicinal probiotic composition or food additive, or for preparing a starter culture,
25 preferably a starter culture for the preparation of a food product, comprising the steps of:
   i) propagating a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram
   positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   lacking PtcC activity in a medium comprising a substrate material capable of being
   fermented by said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
30 Bifidobacterium, and ii) formulating the so propagated gram positive bacterium, such as
   in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, into, respectively, the medicament or probiotic
   composition or food additive or starter culture. Hence, also covered is the use of a gram
   positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and
35 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity for the
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449AU.1

                                                             6
   preparation of a medicament, such as a pharmaceutical formulation or nutraceutical,
   medical food or functional food or probiotic, or for preparation of a probiotic composition
   or food additive, more specifically a non-medicinal probiotic composition or food additive,
   or for preparation of a starter culture, preferably a starter culture for the preparation of a
 5 food product.
   The inventors have found that gram positive bacteria, such as in particular non
   pathogenic gram positive bacteria, such as LAB or Bifidobacteria, as described herein
   not only are capable of intracellular trehalose accumulation, even independent of the
10 carbon source, but also that the gram positive bacteria show greatly enhanced resistance
   to various stress- and storage-associated conditions. For example, the gram positive
   bacteria are more resistant to storage-associated manipulations, such as drying, freezing,
   spray-drying, or freeze-drying (lyophilisation). The gram positive bacteria also display
   enhanced survival, independent of the feeding or fasting status, in the gastro-intestinal
15 system, indicating improved resistance to acidity and bile lysis. The performance of the
   gram positive bacteria as described herein, whether in a medicinal setting or in the food
   industry, is more reproducible than previously known. Hence the gram positive bacteria
   embodying the principles of the invention provide for a more robust environmental as
   well as bio-resistance.
20
   In an aspect, the invention thus also relates to a method for internally accumulating
   trehalose in a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram
   positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   comprising propagating a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
25 pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium,                   lacking PtcC activity, preferably wherein the gene encoding
   endogenous PtcC has been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such
   as being incapable of producing functional ptcC gene product, in a medium comprising
   a substrate material capable of being fermented by said gram positive bacterium.
30
   In a further aspect, the invention relates to a method for improving stress resistance or
   manufacturing, processing and/or storage characteristics of a gram positive bacterium,
   such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic
   acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, comprising modifying the gram positive
35 bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 7
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, such as to lack PtcC activity.
   Preferably, the stress resistance or manufacturing,            processing and/or storage
   characteristics may be one or more selected from the group comprising resistance to
   acid conditions, resistance to bile salts, resistance to heat, resistance to salt, resistance
 5 to drying, freezing, spray-drying or freeze-drying, and osmotic resistance.
   Preferably, in the aforementioned gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity, the gene encoding endogenous PtcC has been
10 partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of
   producing functional ptcC gene product. It shall be appreciated that such deletion,
   disruption or inactivation may target for example the coding sequence of the ptcC gene
   and/or the promoter from which ptcC is expressed.
15 In preferred embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as disclosed or employed herein may lack
   trehalose 6-phosphate phosphorylase (TrePP) activity. Preferably, in such gram positive
   bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and
20 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, also lacking TrePP activity,
   the gene encoding endogenous TrePP has been partially or completely deleted,
   disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of producing functional TrePP gene
   product. It shall be appreciated that such deletion, disruption or inactivation may target
   for example the coding sequence of the trePP gene and/or the promoter from which
25 trePP is expressed. The inventors have surprisingly found that gram positive bacterium,
   such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic
   acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking TrePP activity further accumulate
   trehalose intracellularly. In contrast to the present approach, previous works (WO
   2006/018446) taught to express heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase such
30 as otsB to achieve trehalose accumulation. Carvalho et al. 2011 (supra) even instructed
   to overexpress TrePP to obtain intracellular trehalose accumulation. Moreover, although
   LAB such as Lactococcus lactis may be able to utilize trehalose, up to now no trehalose
   synthesizing Lactococcus lactis strain has been described. No endogenous trehalose-6
   phosphate synthase and trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase genes have been
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                            8
   identified, which were believed to be a prerequisite for trehalose production starting from
   glucose-6-phosphate, a metabolite present in L. lactis.
   In preferred embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
 5 pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as disclosed or employed herein may overexpress
   one or more trehalose transporters, preferably endogenous trehalose transporters, such
   as one or more phosphotransferase system genes comprised in the trehalose operon.
   The inventors have surprisingly found that such overexpression, in contrast to the native
10 trehalose induced expression, further enhances the capacity of the gram positive
   bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, to accumulate and/or retain
   intracellular trehalose.
15 In preferred embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium,                   lacking PtcC activity as employed   herein  contain functional
   heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase. The inventors have realized that
   heterologous expression of trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase further increases
20 trehalose             accumulation.In        preferred  embodiments, the  trehalose   6-phosphate
   phosphatase is otsB, preferably otsB from E.coli.
   To recap, in some embodiments the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
25 Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as disclosed or employed herein may additionally
   display any one, any two or all three of the following characteristics: (a) the gram positive
   bacterium contains functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase; (b) the
   gram positive bacterium lacks TrePP activity; (c) the gram positive bacterium
   overexpresses one or more trehalose transporters. In preferred embodiments, the gram
30 positive bacterium lacking PtcC activity may additionally display characteristic (b), or
   more preferably may additionally display characteristics (a) and (b), or may even more
   preferably additionally display characteristics (b) and (c), or may very preferably
   additionally display characteristics (a) and (b) and (c).
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 9
   In preferred embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as disclosed or employed herein may additionally contain one or more
   heterologous gene product. In some preferred embodiments, particularly wherein the
 5 gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium,
   and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, is intended for a
   medicinal use, such gene product(s) may be prophylactic and/or therapeutic gene
   product(s) or antigen(s).
10 In certain embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non
   pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, or medicament or food additive or starter culture or probiotic
   composition as disclosed or employed herein may be dried, spray-dried, frozen or freeze
   dried (lyophilized). Accordingly, in some embodiments, any of the aforementioned
15 methods for preparing a medicament, or for preparing a food additive, or for preparing a
   starter culture, or for preparing a probiotic compositions, or for internally accumulating
   trehalose in a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram
   positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, or
   for improving stress resistance or manufacturing,              processing and/or storage
20 characteristics of a gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram
   positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, may
   further comprise drying, spray-drying, freezing or freeze-drying (lyophilizing) the gram
   positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, medicament, food additive,
25 probiotic composition, or starter culture.
   In certain embodiments of the aforementioned method for preparing a medicament, or
   for preparing a food additive, or for preparing a starter culture, or in certain embodiments
   of the aforementioned method for internally accumulating trehalose in the gram positive
30 bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, the culture medium may
   comprise maltose or glucose or a combination of maltose and glucose, as a carbon
   source, preferably as main or even sole carbon source. In certain embodiments, the
   culture medium substantially does not contain externally (exogenously) added trehalose.
35 The inventors have surprisingly found that the gram positive bacterium, such as in
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 10
   particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as disclosed herein have acquired the capacity to
   utilize carbon sources such as maltose or glucose to accumulate trehalose inside the
   cells. Accordingly, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a non-pathogenic
 5 gram positive bacterium, and preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   according to the invention can advantageously be grown on for instance maltose as the
   sole carbon source, which is cheaper than trehalose, yet will accumulate intracellular
   trehalose. Nevertheless, it shall be appreciated that in certain embodiments, the culture
   medium may contain externally (exogenously) added trehalose.
10
    In certain preferred embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in particular a
   non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, as intended in the present specification may
   be a lactic acid bacterium (LAB), more preferably a Lactococcus sp. or a Lactobacillus
   sp. bacterium.
15
   In certain other preferred embodiments, the gram positive bacterium, such as in
   particular a non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, as intended in the present
   specification may be a Bifidobacterium sp. bacterium.
   The above and further aspects and preferred embodiments of the invention are
20 described in the following sections and in the appended claims. The subject matter of
   appended claims is hereby specifically incorporated in this specification.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
25 Figure 1: Intracellular trehalose accumulation is possible following trePP inactivation,
   following otsB expression or a combination thereof.
   Figure 2: The accumulation of exogenous trehalose in L. lactis cells provides protection
   towards bile lysis. (A) survival; and (B) trehalose content.
   Figure 3: Accumulation and stability of intracellular trehalose. (A) trehalose release over
30 time; and (B) trehalose increase in supernatant.
   Figure 4: Trehalose accumulation and release in various strains described in Table 2.
   Strains were supplemented with 100 mM (A) or 500 mM (B) trehalose.
   Figure 5: Inactivation of ptcC prevents (in M9 salts, panel A) or delays (in 0,5% oxgal,
   panel B) the release of intracellular trehalose.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 11
   Figure 6: The accumulation of exogenous trehalose in L. lactis cells provides protection
   towards bile lysis. (A) release of intracellular trehalose over time; and (B) survival over
   time in 0.5% oxgal
   Figure 7: trePP KO strains (both ptcC wt as well as ptcC KO) are capable of converting
 5 glucose or maltose to intracellular trehalose
   Figure 8: Enhanced survival during intestinal passage through porcine intestine, both
   when pigs were fasted for 24 hours (A) as well as during ad libitum food availability (B).
   Figure 9: Trehalose accumulation after production of biomass.
   Figure 10: Stimulation of the accumulation of intracellular trehalose by maltose.
10 Figure 11: Conversion of maltose to intracellular trehalose during or after production of
   biomass.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
15 As used herein, the singular forms "a", "an", and "the" include both singular and plural
   referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
   The terms "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised of" as used herein are synonymous
   with "including", "includes" or "containing", "contains", and are inclusive or open-ended
20 and do not exclude additional, non-recited members, elements or method steps. It will
   be appreciated that the terms "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised of" as used
   herein comprise the terms "consisting of", "consists" and "consists of", as well as the
   terms "consisting essentially of", "consists essentially" and "consists essentially of".
25 The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all numbers and fractions
   subsumed within the respective ranges, as well as the recited endpoints.
   The term "about" or "approximately" as used herein when referring to a measurable value
   such as a parameter, an amount, a temporal duration, and the like, is meant to
30 encompass variations of +/-20% or less, preferably +/-10% or less, more preferably +/
   5% or less, and still more preferably +/-1% or less of and from the specified value, insofar
   such variations are appropriate to perform in the disclosed invention. It is to be
   understood that the value to which the modifier "about" or "approximately" refers is itself
   also specifically, and preferably, disclosed.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 12
   Whereas the terms "one or more" or "at least one", such as one or more or at least one
   member(s) of a group of members, is clear per se, by means of further exemplification,
   the term encompasses inter alia a reference to any one of said members, or to any two
   or more of said members, such as, e.g., any 3,          4, 5, 6 or 7 etc. of said members,
 5 and up to all said members.
   All references cited in the present specification are hereby incorporated by reference in
   their entirety. In particular, the teachings of all references herein specifically referred to
   are incorporated by reference.
10
   Unless otherwise defined, all terms used in disclosing the invention, including technical
   and scientific terms, have the meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill
   in the art to which this invention belongs. By means of further guidance, term definitions
   are included to better appreciate the teaching of the present invention.
15
   In the following passages, different aspects of the invention are defined in more detail.
   Each aspect so defined may be combined with any other aspect or aspects unless clearly
   indicated to the contrary. In particular, any feature indicated as being preferred or
   advantageous may be combined with any other feature or features indicated as being
20 preferred or advantageous.
   Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
   that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the
   embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus,
25 appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various
   places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
   embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics
   may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to a person skilled in
   the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments. Furthermore, while some
30 embodiments described herein include some but not other features included in other
   embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be within
   the scope of the invention, and form different embodiments, as would be understood by
   those in the art. For example, in the appended claims, any of the claimed embodiments
   can be used in any combination.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  13
   In the following detailed description of the invention, reference is made to the
   accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which are shown by way of
   illustration only of specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to
   be understood that other embodiments may be utilised and structural or logical changes
 5 may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following
   detailed description, therefore, is not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the
   present invention is defined by the appended claims.
   Standard reference works setting forth the general principles of recombinant DNA
10 technology include Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd ed., vol. 1-3, ed.
   Sambrook et al., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1989;
   Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, ed. Ausubel et al., Greene Publishing and Wiley
   Interscience, New York, 1992 (with periodic updates) ("Ausubel et al. 1992"); Innis et al.,
   PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications, Academic Press: San Diego, 1990.
15 General principles of microbiology are set forth, for example, in Davis, B. D. et al.,
   Microbiology, 3rd edition, Harper& Row, publishers, Philadelphia, Pa. (1980).
   The inventors have found that trehalose to some extent leaks from cells through an up
   to now unidentified or unanticipated trehalose exit port and can be recovered in the
20 supernatant. Surprisingly, the inventors found that the disruption of ptcC circumvents the
   release of trehalose.
   Disclosed herein is a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, lacking cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component (PtcC) activity.
25
   In an aspect, the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, is for use as a medicament, i.e., for use in treatment. A further aspect
   provides a medicament comprising a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity. Disclosed is also the use of a
30 gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   lacking PtcC activity for the manufacture of a medicament. Such medicament may be
   provided, for example, as a pharmaceutical formulation, nutraceutical, probiotic, medical
   or functional food.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 14
   Another aspect provides the use of a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as a probiotic or food additive,
   more specifically as a non-medicinal probiotic or food additive. A related aspect provides
   the use of a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
 5 Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity as a starter culture, preferably a starter culture for
   the preparation of a food product, more particularly wherein the food product is a non
   medicinal food product.
   A further aspect thus provides a probiotic or food additive, more specifically a non
10 medicinal probiotic or food additive, comprising a gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity. A related aspect
   provides a starter culture, preferably a starter culture for the preparation of a food product,
   more particularly wherein the food product is a non-medicinal food product, said starter
   culture comprising a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
15 Bifidobacterium, lacking PtcC activity.
   As used herein, the term "gram-positive bacterium" has its common meaning known in
   the art. By means of further guidance, a gram-positive bacterium can be identified by
   Gram staining as retaining crystal violet stain.
20
   In a preferred embodiment, the gram-positive bacterium according to the invention is
   non-pathogenic in the sense that it does not cause harm or does not lead to deleterious
   effects when administered to an intended subject.
25 As used herein, the term "lactic acid bacterium" of "LAB" relates to a gram-positive
   bacterium which is non-pathogenic in the sense that it does not cause harm or does not
   lead to deleterious effects when administered to an intended subject, and which
   preferably belongs to the bacterial genera of Lactococcus, Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc,
   Pediococcus, Streptococcus, Aerococcus, Carnobacterium, Enterococcus, Oenococcus,
30 Sporolactobacillus, Tetragenococcus, Vagococcus, and Weisella. More preferably, the
   LAB may be a Lactococcus species, such as, but not limited to Lactococcus lactis,
   Lactococcus garvieae, Lactococcus piscium, Lactococcus plantarum and Lactococcus
   raffinolactis, and any subspecies and strains thereof. Most preferably, the Lactococcus
   species may be Lactococcus lactis, and any subspecies and strain thereof, such as
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 15
   without limitation Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris, Lactococcus lactis ssp. hordniae,
   Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis, Lactococcus lactis ssp. bv. diacetylactis. Further
   preferably, the Lactococcus lactis may be Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris or
   Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis, more preferably Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris, and
 5 encompasses any strains thereof, such as, e.g., Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris SK1 1,
   Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris MG1363, or Lactococcus lactis ssp lactis IL1403. Also
   preferably, the LAB may an Enterococcus sp., preferably Enterococcus faecalis,
   Enterococcus faecium and any subspecies and strains thereof, such as, without
   limitation Enterococcus faecium strain LMG15709.
10
   Bifidobacterium is a genus of Gram-positive, non-motile, often branched anaerobic
   bacteria. Bifidobacteria as used herein may include B. adolescentis, B. angulatum, B.
   animalis, B. asteroides, B. bifidum, B. boum, B. breve, B. catenulatum, B. choerinum, B.
   coryneforme, B. cuniculi, B. denticolens, B. dentium, B. gallicum, B. gallinarum, B.
15 indicum, B. infantis, B. inopinatum, B. lactis, B. longum, B. magnum, B. merycicum, B.
   minimum, B. pseudocatenulatum, B. pseudolongum, B. pullorum, B. ruminantium, B.
   saeculare, B. subtile, B. suis, B. thermacidophilum, B. thermophilum. Preferably, the
   Bifidobacterium is B. adolescentis, B. bifidum, B. breve, B. infantis, B. longum. It is to be
   understood that all subspecies and strains of Bifidobacteria are also included.
20
   "Cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component" or "ptcC" or "PtcC" as used herein
   refers to a phosphotransferase system component. The phosphotransferase system is
   involved in catalyzing the transfer of the phosphoryl group from phosphoenolpyruvate to
   incoming sugar substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell membrane.
25 PtcC is the transmembrane component of a cellobiose-specific PTS system. PtcC has
   up till now not been implicated in trehalose transport, let alone being involved in trehalose
   leakage from gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium. By means of example, the nucleic acid and protein sequence of ptcC of
   Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris MG1363 is represented by SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8,
30 respectively (corresponding to Genbank accession numbers NC_009004.1                   (region
   430271-431608) and YP_001031790.1, respectively). In an embodiment, the ptcC as
   used herein relates to a gene or protein having the nucleic acid or amino acid sequence
   of SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8, respectively, or having a nucleic acid encoding SEQ ID NO: 8.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                         16
   In a further embodiment, the ptcC as used herein relates to a gene or protein having the
   nucleic acid or amino acid sequence which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NOs: 7
   and 8, respectively, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more %
   identical. In another embodiment, the PtcC as used herein encodes a protein which is at
 5 least 75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%,
   95% or more % identical. In a further embodiment, the ptcC as used herein relates to a
   gene having the nucleic acid or amino acid sequence which is at least 55% identical to
   SEQ ID NO: 7, such as for instance at least 60%, 65%, 70% or more % identical. In a
   further embodiment, the ptcC as used herein relates to a protein having the amino acid
10 sequence which is at least 45% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8, such as for instance at least
   50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70% or more % identical. In another embodiment, the PtcC as
   used herein encodes a protein which is at least 45% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8, such as
   for instance at least 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70% or more % identical. Preferably, the
   above described sequences relate to or encode a functional PtcC protein. In another
15 embodiment, the ptcC as used herein is a LAB orthologue of SEQ ID NOs: 7 and 8.
   Preferably, but without limitation, sequence identities as individualised in this paragraph
   may particularly apply when the gram positive bacterium is a lactic acid bacterium (LAB),
   more preferably a Lactococcus sp., even more preferably Lactococcus lactis.
20 By means of example, the nucleic acid and protein sequence of ptcC of Bifidobacterium
   bifidum PRL2010 is represented by, respectively, Genbank accession numbers
   NC_014638.1                   (region 2033198..2034538, complement) and YP_003971775.1; of
   Bifidobacterium longum subsp. longum KACC 91563 by, respectively, Genbank
   accession numbers NC_017221.1 (region 2316679..2317218) and YP_005588251.1;
25 and of Bifidobacterium breve UCC2003 by, respectively, Genbank accession numbers
   CP000303.1 (region 2379064..2380443, complement) and ABE96554.1.
   In a further embodiment, the ptcC as used herein relates to a gene or protein having
   nucleic acid or amino acid sequence which is at least 75% identical, such as for instance
30 at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical, to the nucleic acid or protein
   sequence of ptcC of Bifidobacterium bifidum PRL2010, or Bifidobacterium longum subsp.
   longum KACC 91563, or Bifidobacterium breve UCC2003, as defined under the above
   stated Genbank accession numbers, respectively. Preferably, the above described
   sequences relate to or encode a functional PtcC protein. In another embodiment, the
35 ptcC as used herein is a Bifidobacterium orthologue of ptcC of said Bifidobacterium
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                        17
   species. Preferably, but without limitation, sequence identities as individualised in this
   paragraph may particularly apply when the gram positive bacterium is a Bifidobacterium.
   As shall be apparent to a skilled person, sequences of the PTS system IIC component
 5 of many further gram positive bacteria can be readily retrieved from the Genbank
   Nucleotide database, for example, by querying the database with the search string "PTS
   system IIC component" or analogous optionally in combination with the genus (e.g.,
   "Lactococcus", "Lactobacillus", "Leuconostoc", "Enterococcus", "Bifidobacterium", etc.)
   or species (e.g., "Lactococcus lactis", "Lactococcus garvieae", "Lactococcus piscium",
10 "Lactococcus                  plantarum", "Lactococcus  raffinolactis", "Enterococcus faecalis",
   "Enterococcus faecium", "Bifidobacterium adolescentis", "Bifidobacterium bifidum",
   "Bifidobacterium breve", "Bifidobacterium lactis", etc.) name of the desired gram positive
   bacterium, or by querying the annotated complete genome sequences of such bacteria
   with the string "PTS system IIC component" or analogous. Where not (yet) included in
15 public databases, such sequences can be readily identified by routine techniques of
   molecular biology based on sequence homology.
   Methods for comparing sequences and determining sequence identity are well known in
   the art. By means of example, percentage of sequence identity refers to a percentage of
20 identical nucleic acids or amino acids between two sequences after alignment of these
   sequences. Alignments and percentages of identity can be performed and calculated
   with various different programs and algorithms known in the art. Preferred alignment
   algorithms include BLAST (Altschul, 1990; available for instance at the NCBI website)
   and Clustal (reviewed in Chenna, 2003; available for instance at the EBI website).
25 Preferably, BLAST is used to calculate the percentage of identity between two
   sequences, such as the "Blast 2 sequences" algorithm described by Tatusova and
   Madden 1999 (FEMS Microbiol Lett 174: 247-250), for example using the published
   default settings or other suitable settings (such as, e.g., for the BLASTN algorithm: cost
   to open a gap = 5, cost to extend a gap = 2, penalty for a mismatch = -2, reward for a
30 match = 1, gap xdropoff = 50, expectation value = 10.0, word size = 28; or for the
   BLASTP algorithm: matrix = Blosum62, cost to open a gap = 11, cost to extend a gap =
   1, expectation value = 10.0, word size = 3).
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               18
   The activity of PtcC can for instance be indirectly determined by means of gene
   sequencing. In this way, partial or complete deletions, disruptions or inactivating
   mutations can be readily identified.
 5 As used herein, the term "lacking PtcC activity" means that no or substantially no PtcC
   activity is present. By means of further guidance, the PtcC activity is less than 20% of
   the PtcC activity of wild type gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. For instance, the PtcC activity is less than 15%, preferably less
   than 10%, more preferably less than 5%, even more preferably less than 1% of wild type
10 PtcC activity. As indicated before, most preferably the PtcC activity is undetectable or
   substantially or completely absent.
   As used herein, the term "medicament" also encompasses the terms "drug", "therapeutic",
   and other terms which are used in the field of medicine to indicate a preparation with
15 therapeutic or prophylactic effect.
   As used herein, the terms "treat" or "treatment" refer to both therapeutic treatment and
   prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to prevent or slow down
   (lessen) an undesired physiological change or disorder. The terms "treatment", "treating",
20 and the like, as used herein also include amelioration or elimination of a developed
   disease or condition once it has been established or alleviation of the characteristic
   symptoms of such disease or condition. As used herein these terms also encompass,
   depending on the condition of the patient, preventing the onset of a disease or condition
   or of symptoms associated with a disease or condition, including reducing the severity
25 of a disease or condition or symptoms associated therewith prior to affliction with said
   disease or condition. Such prevention or reduction prior to affliction refers to
   administration of the compound or composition of the invention to a patient that is not at
   the time of administration afflicted with the disease or condition. "Preventing" also
   encompasses preventing the recurrence or relapse-prevention of a disease or condition
30 or of symptoms associated therewith, for instance after a period of improvement.
   As used herein, "nutraceuticals" generally encompass foods or food products that
   provide health and medical benefits. Nutraceuticals are edible and may be eaten directly
   by humans, but are preferably provided to humans in the form of additives or nutritional
35 supplements, e.g., in the form of tablets of the kind sold in health food stores, or as
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 19
   ingredients in edible solids, more preferably processed food products such as cereals,
   breads, tofu, cookies, ice cream, cakes, potato chips, pretzels, cheese, etc., and in
   drinkable liquids e.g., beverages such as milk, soda, sports drinks, and fruit juices.
   Especially preferred processes for producing nutraceuticals involve only naturally
 5 derived solvents. Nutraceuticals may preferably contain relatively high levels of health
   enhancing substances Nutraceuticals may be intermixed with one another to increase
   their health-enhancing effects.
   In contrast to nutraceuticals, the so-called "medical foods" are not meant to be used by
10 the general public and are not available in stores or supermarkets. Medical foods are not
   those foods included within a healthy diet to decrease the risk of disease, such as
   reduced-fat foods or low-sodium foods, nor are they weight loss products. A physician
   prescribes a medical food when a patient has special nutrient needs in order to manage
   a disease or health condition, and the patient is under the physician's ongoing care. The
15 label states that the product is intended to be used to manage a specific medical disorder
   or condition. An example of a medical food is nutritionally diverse medical food designed
   to provide targeted nutritional support for patients with chronic inflammatory conditions.
   Active compounds of this product are for instance one or more of the compounds
   described herein. Functional foods may encompass those foods included within a
20 healthy diet to decrease the risk of disease, such as reduced-fat foods or low-sodium
   foods, or weight loss products.
   As used herein, the term "probiotics" refers to bacteria that help maintain the natural
   balance of microorganisms (microflora) in the intestines camera. Also, the normal human
25 digestive tract contains probiotic bacteria that reduce the growth of harmful bacteria and
   promote a healthy digestive system. The largest group of probiotic bacteria in the
   intestine is LAB. As used herein, a "probiotic composition" is a composition, preferably
   an edible composition, comprising a probiotic. The term "probiotic composition" as used
   herein may be used interchangeably with "dietary supplement". The probiotic
30 composition as defined herein can find use as supplement to food and beverages, and
   as pharmaceutical formulations for enteral or parenteral application which may be solid
   formulations such as capsules or tablets, or liquid formulations, such as solutions or
   suspensions. Such formulations may include without limitation drinks (e.g. Actimel *,
   Yakult *, DanActive *...), drink yoghurts, yoghurt, fresh cheese, cream, sour cream, etc.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                          20
   Hence, it shall be appreciated that a probiotic or probiotic composition may be for
   medicinal or non-medicinal applications.
   The term "starter culture" refers to a microbiological culture which actually performs
 5 fermentation. These starters usually consist of a cultivation medium, such as grains,
   seeds, or nutrient liquids that have been well colonized by the microorganisms used for
   the fermentation. As used herein, the term starter culture preferably refers to a high
   density starter culture. Accordingly, a starter culture may refer to a composition
   comprising live microorganisms that are capable of initiating or effecting fermentation of
10 organic material, optionally after being cultivated in a separate starter medium for
   obtaining a high density culture. Alternatively, the starter culture may be dried, spray
   dried, frozen or freeze-dried.
   As indicated before, the present inventors have surprisingly found that the absence of
15 trePP augments intracellular trehalose accumulation in gram positive bacterium,
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In contrast herewith, it has
   been previously thought that the presence of a heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate
   phosphatase and/or a heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate synthase, such as otsB and
   otsA, respectively, is essential for intracellular trehalose accumulation.
20
   Accordingly, in an embodiment, the invention relates to the gram positive bacterium,
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein, lacking
   trehalose 6-phosphate phosphorylase activity.
25 As used herein, the term "trehalose 6-phosphate phosphorylase", "trePP", or "TrePP"
   relates to an enzyme which phosphorylates trehalose 6-phosphate, preferably an
   enzyme which catalyzes the reaction, preferably the reversible reaction, of a,a-trehalose
   6-phosphate with                   phosphate to yield glucose-6-phosphate and  p-D-glucose-1
   phosphate, or vice versa. Synonyms for trePP are for instance trehalose-6
30 phosphate:phosphate                       p-D-glucosyltransferase    and      a,a-trehalose-6
   phosphate:phosphate p-D-glucosyltransferase. By means of example, the nucleic acid
   and protein sequence of trePP of Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris MG1363 is
   represented by SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2, respectively (corresponding to Genbank accession
   numbers NC_009004.1 (region 449195-451504) and YP_001031805.1, respectively). In
35 an embodiment, the trePP as used herein relates to a gene or protein having the nucleic
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                21
   acid or amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2, respectively, or having a nucleic
   acid encoding SEQ ID NO: 2. In a further embodiment, the trePP as used herein relates
   to a gene or protein having the nucleic acid or amino acid sequence which is at least 75%
   identical to SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2, respectively, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%,
 5 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical. In another embodiment, the trePP as used herein
   encodes a protein which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, such as for instance
   at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical. Preferably, the above described
   sequences relate to or encode a functional trePP protein. In another embodiment, the
   trePP as used herein is a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
10 (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, orthologue of SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2.
   The activity of trePP can be measured directly or indirectly. One way to indirectly
   determine the activity is by means of gene sequencing. In this way, partial or complete
   deletions, disruptions or inactivating mutations can be readily identified. A direct way to
15 determine the activity can for instance be based on assays with cell extracts wherein
   substrate consumption or reaction product formation is measured (e.g. the substrate
   trehalose 6-phosphate or the reaction products glucose-6-phosphate and p-D-glucose
   1-phosphate), possibly combined with prior metabolic labelling. Substrate and products
   can also be readily determined by for instance high performance anion exchange
20 chromatography (HPAEC), as for instance described in Andersson et al. 2001 (supra).
   As used herein, the term "lacking TrePP activity" means that no or substantially no TrePP
   activity is present. By means of further guidance, the TrePP activity is less than 20% of
   the TrePP activity of wild type gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. For instance, the TrePP activity is less than 15%, preferably
25 less than 10%, more preferably less than 5%, even more preferably less than 1% of wild
   type TrePP activity. As indicated before, most preferably the TrePP activity is
   undetectable or substantially or completely absent.
   The inventors have found that the presence of heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate
30 synthase and/or heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase may further augment
   intracellular trehalose accumulation. Accordingly, in an embodiment, the invention
   relates to the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as described herein, containing functional heterologous trehalose 6
   phosphate phosphatase. In a further embodiment, the gram positive bacterium,
35 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein contains
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                22
   a functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate synthase. In yet another embodiment,
   the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   as described herein contains a functional heterologous a functional heterologous
   trehalose 6-phosphate synthase and contains a functional heterologous trehalose 6
 5 phosphate phosphatase. In a preferred embodiment, the trehalose 6-phosphate
   synthase is otsA, preferably otsA from E. coli. In another preferred embodiment, the
   trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase is otsB, preferably otsB from E. coli.
   Particularly preferred is a genomic integration of the trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase
10 and/or synthase, wherein the integration is preferably as disclosed in European patent
   applications with application numbers 11168495.7 and 11173588.2. These applications
   relate to dual cistron expression systems and are incorporated herein by reference in
   their entirety. The preferred position of trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase, preferably
   otsB, and/or trehalose 6-phosphate synthase, preferably otsA as it is used here, is as a
15 second cistron behind the endogenous usp45 gene.
   As used herein, the term "contains" preferably relates to gram positive bacterium,
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, which express a particular
   gene product, i.e. a functional or active protein is produced in said gram positive
20 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium.
   As used herein, the term "trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase" relates to an enzyme
   which dephosphorylates trehalose 6-phosphate, preferably an enzyme which catalyzes
   the reaction of trehalose-6-phosphate to yield phosphate and trehalose. Trehalose 6
25 phosphate phosphatase belongs to the family of Phosphoric Monoester Hydrolases.
   Synonyms for trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase are for instance a,a-trehalose-6
   phosphate phosphohydrolase, trehalose-6-phosphate phosphohydrolase, and trehalose
   6-phosphatase. By means of example, the nucleic acid and protein sequence of
   trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase of E. coli (i.e., otsB) is represented by SEQ ID NOs:
30 3 and 4, respectively (corresponding to Genbank accession numbers X69160.1
   (nucleotide positions 675-1475) and P31678.2, respectively). In an embodiment, the
   trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase as used herein relates to a gene or protein having
   the nucleic acid or amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4, respectively, or having
   a nucleic acid encoding SEQ ID NO: 4. In a further embodiment, the trehalose 6
35 phosphate phosphatase as used herein relates to a gene or protein having the nucleic
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                        23
   acid or amino acid sequence which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4,
   respectively, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical.
   In another embodiment, the trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase as used herein
   encodes a protein which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4, such as for instance
 5 at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical. Preferably, the above described
   sequences relate to or encode a functional trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase protein.
   In another embodiment, the trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase as used herein is a
   gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   orthologue of SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4.
10
   As used herein, the term "trehalose 6-phosphate synthase" relates to an enzyme which
   dephosphorylates trehalose 6-phosphate, preferably an enzyme which catalyzes the
   reaction of glucose 6-phosphate with UDP-glucose to yield trehalose 6-phosphate.
   Trehalose 6-phosphate synthase belongs to the family of glycosyltransferases.
15 Synonyms for trehalose 6-phosphate synthase are for instance trehalose phosphate
   uridine          diphosphate       glucosyltransferase, phosphotrehalose-uridine diphosphate
   transglucosylase, uridine diphosphoglucose phosphate glucosyltransferase, and a,a
   trehalose-6-phosphate synthase. By means of example, the nucleic acid and protein
   sequence of trehalose 6-phosphate synthase of E. coli (i.e. otsA) is represented by SEQ
20 ID NOs: 5 and 6, respectively (corresponding to Genbank accession numbers X69160.1
   (nucleotide positions 1450-2874) and P31677.3, respectively). In an embodiment, the
   trehalose 6-phosphate synthase as used herein relates to a gene or protein having the
   nucleic acid or amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6, respectively, or having a
   nucleic acid encoding SEQ ID NO: 6. In a further embodiment, the trehalose 6-phosphate
25 synthase as used herein relates to a gene or protein having the nucleic acid or amino
   acid sequence which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6, respectively, such
   as for instance at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical. In another
   embodiment, the trehalose 6-phosphate synthase as used herein encodes a protein
   which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%,
30 85%, 90%, 95% or more % identical. Preferably, the above described sequences relate
   to or encode a functional trehalose 6-phosphate synthase protein.                 In another
   embodiment, the trehalose 6-phosphate synthase as used herein is a gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, orthologue of
   SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               24
   The gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   lacking PtcC and/or TrePP activity and optionally containing heterologous genes or gene
   products, such as trehalose 6-phosphate synthase or phosphatase or prophylactic
   and/or therapeutic heterologous genes or gene products according to the invention can
 5 be obtained by any means known in the art, be it using molecular biological methodology
   or obtained through high throughput screening of natural variants or variants obtained
   from random chemical or irradiation mutagenesis. (High throughput screening fro trePP
   KO can be performed by a method using the absence of growth on trehalose of the trePP
   defective strain or by high throughput sequencing and bioinformatic analysis of trePP
10 orthologs or other methods). (for background relating to recombinant techniques and
   genetic manipulation of LAB see for instance "Genetics and Biotechnology of Lactic Acid
   Bacteria", eds. Gasson & de Vos, Blackie Academic & Professional, 1994 and "Genetics
   of Lactic Acid Bacteria", eds. Wood & Warner, Springer, 2003) In an embodiment, in the
   gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
15 according to the invention the gene encoding endogenous PtcC and/or TrePP and/or the
   promoters from which trePP and/or ptcC are expressed has been partially or completely
   deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of producing functional ptcC
   and/or trePP gene product. Techniques for gene disruption are generally known in the
   art. By means of example, the endogenous ptcC and/or trePP gene can be inactivated
20 by complete or partial removal of the coding region (knock-out) or alternatively complete
   or partial removal or mutagenesis of the promoter region. Alternatively, the ptcC and/or
   trePP gene may be insertionally inactivated (knock-in), thereby disrupting the
   endogenous coding sequence. For instance, premature stop codons or frame shift
   mutations may be introduced. The ptcC and/or trePP gene may also be mutagenized by
25 introduction of one or more missense or nonsense mutations, as long as no or
   substantially no functional PtcC and/or TrePP protein can be produced anymore, i.e.
   PtcC and/or trePP activity is (substantially) absent. It is to be understood that
   spontaneous mutations are also covered.
30 The inventors have further found that overexpressing one or more trehalose transporters
   further augments intracellular trehalose accumulation and/or retention in gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. Accordingly, in
   an embodiment, the invention relates to gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein, overexpressing, preferably
35 constitutively overexpressing, one or more genes encoding a trehalose transporter. In a
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                     25
   preferred             embodiment,  said trehalose   transporters are endogenous   trehalose
   transporters of a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium. In a further preferred embodiment, the trehalose transporters are
   endogenous trehalose transporters located in the trehalose operon of a gram positive
 5 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In yet another
   embodiment, the trehalose transporters are endogenous trehalose transporters of the
   phosphotransferase system (PTS) located within the trehalose operon of a gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In a preferred
   embodiment, the overexpression of the one or more trehalose transporters as described
10 herein is accomplished by insertion of a promoter 5' to the one or more transporters such
   that the promoter is operably linked to the transporter sequence(s). Operably linked
   refers to a juxtaposition wherein the components so described are in a relationship
   permitting them to function in their intended manner. A promoter sequence "operably
   linked" to a coding sequence is ligated in such a way that expression of the coding
15 sequence is achieved under conditions compatible with the promoter sequence. In an
   embodiment, said promoter is a strong promoter. In a further embodiment, said promoter
   is a constitutive promoter. In yet another embodiment, said promoter is an endogenous
   gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   promoter. Suitable promoters can be found for instance in WO 2008/084115, which
20 incorporated herein in its entirety. In particular, the promoters listed in Table 12 of WO
   2008/084115 are particularly suited to overexpress the transporters as described herein.
   Most preferably, the promoter is PhlIA (i.e. the promoter of the HU-like DNA-binding
   protein). Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment the PhlIA promoter is inserted upstream
   of the coding regions of the endogenous trehalose transporter(s) located in the trehalose
25 operon of a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium. In an embodiment, the PhlIA promoter has the sequence of SEQ ID NO:
   13, corresponding to the PhlIA promoter of Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris MG1363. In
   another embodiment, the PhlIA promoter has a sequence which is at least 75% identical
   to SEQ ID NO: 13, such as at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more identical to SEQ
30 ID NO: 13. In a further embodiment, the PhIIA is a gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, orthologue of SEQ ID NO: 13.
   By means of example, the trehalose transporters referred to herein are represented by
   the Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris MG1363 nucleic acid and amino acid sequence of
35 SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10, respectively (corresponding to Genbank accession numbers
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                       26
   NC_009004.1 (region 446937-447422) and YP_001031803.1, respectively), and/or SEQ
   ID NOs: 11 and 12, respectively (corresponding to Genbank accession numbers
   NC_009004.1                  (region 447563-449128) and YP_001031804.1, respectively). In an
   embodiment, the overexpressed transporter(s) as used herein relate to a gene or protein
 5 having the nucleic acid or amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10, respectively,
   and/or SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12, respectively, or having a nucleic acid encoding SEQ ID
   NO: 10 and/or SEQ ID NO: 12. In a further embodiment, the overexpressed transporter(s)
   as used herein relates to a gene or protein having the nucleic acid or amino acid
   sequence which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10, respectively, and/or
10 SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12, respectively, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%, 85%,
   90%, 95% or more % identical. In another embodiment, the overexpressed transporter(s)
   as used herein encodes a protein which is at least 75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 10 and/or
   SEQ ID NO: 12, such as for instance at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more %
   identical. Preferably, the above described sequences relate to or encode (a) functional
15 overexpressed, preferably constitutively overexpressing, transporter(s) protein(s). In
   another embodiment, the (constitutively) overexpressed transporter(s) as used herein
   is(are) a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, orthologue(s) of SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 10 and/or SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12.
20 The gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   as described herein show an increased tolerance towards various environmental and
   storage associated insults or stress, such as an increased drying, spray-drying, freezing
   or freeze-drying resistance, as well as an increased resistance towards the harsh
   conditions in the gastrointestinal tract (e.g. acids and bile salts). The gram positive
25 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according to the
   invention are therefore particularly well suited to be administered to a subject while
   showing an increased survival rate in the gastrointestinal tract. These gram positive
   bacteria, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, can therefore also
   be applied to deliver proteins to a subject. Accordingly, in an embodiment, the invention
30 relates to gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as described herein, containing one or more heterologous gene product,
   preferably one or more prophylactic and/or therapeutic gene product and/or antigen.
   Delivery of biological active polypeptides has for instance been described in WO
   97/14806, WO 00/23471, WO 01/02570, WO 02/090551, WO 2005/111194, WO
35 2007/025977,                  WO    2007/063075, WO    2007/128757, WO   2008/071751,    WO
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   27
   2008/090223, WO 2004/046346, and WO 2010/034844. Preferably, the heterologous
   genes as described herein are integrated into the bacterial genome. A particularly
   preferred integration strategy is disclosed in European patent applications with
   application numbers 11168495.7 and 11173588.2, which are incorporated herein in their
 5 entirety by reference. In particular, the heterologous genes may be inserted
   polycistronically (e.g., bi-, tri- or multi-cistronically) as a second (or further) gene in a
   native (endogenous) locus, preferably an operon. In this way, the heterologous gene is
   expressed under control of a native (endogenous) promoter.
10 As used herein, the term "antigen" generally refers to a substance that evokes an
   immune response, including humoral immunity and/or cellular immunity response, and
   that is capable of binding with a product, e.g., an antibody or a T cell, of the immune
   response. An antigen as intended herein may in an alternative be such as to induce
   immuno-tolerance, e.g., may be an auto-antigen (including auto- and allo-antigens) or
15 may be allergen. Hence, in a preferred example, an antigen requires a functioning
   immune system of a subject to which it is administered to elicit a physiological response
   from such a subject. The "antigen" as intended herein also encompasses "self-antigens"
   which do not provoke an immune response in a healthy individual but would do so in a
   person suffering from auto-immune disease, i.e. the failure of an organism to recognize
20 its own constituent parts (down to the sub-molecular levels) as "self", which results in an
   immune response against its own cells and tissues. Any disease that results from such
   an aberrant immune response is termed an autoimmune disease. Accordingly, the
   "antigen" as intended herein also encompasses a (physiologically active) protein which
   would not provoke an immune response in a healthy individual but would do so in a
25 person genetically deficient in said protein. In addition, the "antigen" as intended herein
   also encompasses an allergen which would not provoke an immune response in a
   healthy individual but would do so in a person suffering from an allergic disease.
   An antigen as intended herein may be derived from any polypeptide to which an immune
30 response in a human or animal subject would be therapeutically useful, e.g., from a
   pathogen, e.g., from a viral, prokaryotic (e.g., bacterial) or eukaryotic pathogen, from a
   non-physiological protein (e.g., a protein derived from cancer tissue), from allergen (e.g.,
   for eliciting immune tolerance), etc. An antigen could also be a metabolite of a protein.
   As an example, the antigen could be a polysaccharide, a lipid or other. Strong promoters
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  28
   as described here could drive the expression of the necessary enzymes to synthesize or
   assemble said polysaccharide, lipid or other.
   The term "a prophylactically and/or therapeutically gene product", polypeptide or protein
 5 refers generally to a peptide, polypeptide or protein that, in a human or animal subject to
   which it is administered, does not elicit an immune response against itself (i.e., is non
   vaccinogenic) and is able to achieve a prophylactic and/or therapeutic effect. Hence, the
   prophylactic and/or therapeutic effect of such a peptide, polypeptide or protein would be
   expected to be directly linked to its own natural biological function whereby it can achieve
10 particular effects in a body of a subject; rather than producing a prophylactic and/or
   therapeutic effect by acting as an immunogenic and/or immunoprotective antigen in the
   subject. Hence, the non-vaccinogenic prophylactically and/or therapeutically active
   peptide, polypeptide or protein should be biologically active in its expressed form or, at
   least, must be converted into the biologically active form once released from the
15 expressing host cell. Preferably, such biologically active form of the said peptide,
   polypeptide or protein may display a secondary and preferably also tertiary conformation
   which is the same or closely analogous to its native configuration.
   Preferably, the prophylactic and/or therapeutic gene product, polypeptide or protein is
20 also non-toxic and non-pathogenic. In a preferred embodiment, the prophylactically
   and/or therapeutically gene product, polypeptide or protein may be derived from human
   or animal, and may preferably correspond to the same taxon as the human or animal
   subject to which it is to be administered.
25 Non-limiting examples of suitable prophylactically and/or therapeutically gene products,
   polypeptides or proteins include ones which are capable of functioning locally or
   systemically, e.g., is/are capable of exerting endocrine activities affecting local or whole
   body metabolism and/or is/are capable of the regulation of the activities of cells belonging
   to the immunohaemopoeitic system and/or is/are capable of affecting the viability, growth
30 and differentiation of a variety of normal or neoplastic cells in the body or affecting the
   immune regulation or induction of acute phase inflammatory responses to injury and
   infection and/or is/are capable of enhancing or inducing resistance to infection of cells
   and tissues mediated by chemokines acting on their target cell receptors, or the
   proliferation of epithelial cells or the promotion of wound healing and/or is/are capable of
35 modulating the expression or production of substances by cells in the body. Specific
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                           29
   examples of such peptides, polypeptides and proteins include, without limitation, insulin,
   growth hormone, prolactin, calcitonin, luteinising hormone, parathyroid hormone,
   somatostatin, thyroid stimulating hormone, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cytokines
   such as IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-13, any of IL-14 to IL
 5 32, in particular IL-27, GM-CSF, M-CSF, SCF, IFNs, EPO,G-CSF, LIF, OSM, CNTF, GH,
   PRL, the TNF family of cytokines, e.g., TNFa, TNFa, CD40, CD27 or FAS ligands, the
   IL-1 family of cytokines, the fibroblast growth factor family, the platelet derived growth
   factors, transforming growth factors and nerve growth factors, the epidermal growth
   factor family of cytokines, the insulin related cytokines, etc. Alternatively, the
10 prophylactically and/or therapeutically active polypeptide can be a receptor or antagonist
   for the prophylactically and/or therapeutically active polypeptides as defined above.
   Alternatively, the prophylactically and/or therapeutically active polypeptide can be an
   antibody, such as a neutralizing antibody, or the likes thereof. Further specific examples
   of such suitable polypeptides are listed, e.g., in WO 96/11277, page 14, lines 1-30,
15 incorporated herein by reference; in WO 97/14806, page 12, line 1 through page 13, line
   27, incorporated herein by reference; or US 5,559,007, col. 8, line 31 through col. 9, line
   9,     incorporated                by reference herein.  In an example,   said  non-vaccinogenic
   prophylactically and/or therapeutically active peptide, polypeptide or protein may be IL
   10, more preferably hIL-10, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), more preferably hGLP-1,
20 glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2), more preferably hGLP-2, trefoil factors (TFF, e.g., TFF1,
   2 and/or 3), or PYY, more preferably hPYY.
   As mentioned,                   in embodiments the prophylactically and/or therapeutically active
   polypeptide can be an antibody, such as a neutralizing antibody, or the likes thereof. The
25 antibody as described herein can be a full size antibody or a functional fragment thereof
   such as Fab, a fusion protein or a multimeric protein. In a preferred embodiment, the one
   or more heterologous genes encodes an antibody or a functional antibody fragment. As
   used herein, the term "functional" refers to an antibody fragment, which can still exert its
   intended function, i.e. antigen binding. The term antibody, as used here, includes, but is
30 not limited to conventional antibodies, chimeric antibodies, dAb, bispecific antibody,
   trispecific antibody, multispecific antibody, bivalent antibody, trivalent antibody,
   multivalent antibody, VHH, nanobody, Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 scFv, Fv, dAb, Fd, diabody,
   triabody, single chain antibody, single domain antibody, single antibody variable domain.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  30
   In the present context, the term "antibody" is used to describe an immunoglobulin
   whether natural or partly or wholly engineered. As antibodies can be modified in a
   number of ways, the term "antibody" should be construed as covering any specific
   binding molecule or substance having a binding domain with the required binding
 5 specificity for the other member of the pair of molecules, i.e. the target molecule, as
   defined supra. Thus, this term covers antibody fragments, derivatives, functional
   equivalents and homologues of antibodies, as well as single chain antibodies,
   bifunctional antibodies, bivalent antibodies, VHH, nanobodies, Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, scFv,
   Fv, dAb, Fd, diabodies, triabodies and camelid antibodies, including any polypeptide
10 comprising an immunoglobulin binding domain, whether natural or wholly or partially
   engineered. Chimeric molecules comprising an immunoglobulin binding domain, or
   equivalent, fused to another polypeptide are therefore included. The term also covers
   any polypeptide or protein having a binding domain which is, or is homologous to, an
   antibody binding domain, e.g. antibody mimics. Examples of antibodies are the
15 immunoglobulin isotypes and their isotypic subclasses, including IgG (IgG1, IgG2a,
   IgG2b, IgG3, IgG4), IgA, IgD, IgM and IgE. The person in the art will thus appreciate that
   the present invention also relates to antibody fragments, comprising an antigen binding
   domain such as VHH, nanobodies Fab, scFv, Fv, dAb, Fd, diabodies and triabodies. In
   an embodiment, the invention relates to a gram-positive bacterium or a recombinant
20 nucleic acid as described herein, wherein one exogenous gene encodes the light chain
   (VL) of an antibody or of a functional fragment thereof, and another exogenous gene
   encodes the heavy chain (VH) of the antibody or of a functional fragment thereof, more
   preferably wherein the functional fragment is Fab. In an embodiment, the exogenous
   gene encoding VL or functional fragment thereof is transcriptionally coupled to the 3' end
25 of the exogenous gene encoding VH or functional fragment thereof.
   In an embodiment, the (neutralizing) antibody as described herein at least partially or
   fully blocks, inhibits, or neutralises a biological activity of a target molecule, such as a
   cytokine or chemokine or a toxin. As used herein, the expression "neutralises" or
30 "neutralisation" means the inhibition of or reduction in a biological activity of a cytokine
   or toxin as measured in vivo or in vitro, by methods known in the art, such as, for instance,
   as detailed in the examples. In particular, the inhibition or reduction may be measured
   by determining the colitic score or by determining the target molecule in a tissue or blood
   sample. As used herein, the expression "neutralises" or "neutralisation" means the
35 inhibition of or reduction in a biological activity of a cytokine or toxin as measured in vivo
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   31
   or in vitro, by at least 10% or more, preferably by at least 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%,
   70%, 80%, 90% and even more preferably by 100%.
   Preferably, said antibody or functional fragment thereof inhibit the biological effect of
 5 cytokines chosen from the list of IL-1 P, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-12 (or its
   subunits IL-12p35 and IL12p40), IL-13, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17, IL-18, IL-21, IL-23 (or its
   subunit IL-23p19), IL-27, IL-32 (and its splice variants), IFN (a., P, y) and TNFa.
   Alternatively, these cytokines may be inhibited by binding molecules which are not
   antibodies. Preferably, said binding molecules are soluble cytokine receptors such as
10 gp130, or are binding to the receptors of said cytokines, for example IL-2R (CD25,
   CD122, CD132), IL-12R (betal, beta2), IL15R, IL-17R, IL-23R or IL-6R, without
   triggering an inflammatory signal. Preferably, said binding molecules are neutralizing
   chemokines chosen from the list of MIF, MIP-1a, MCP-1, RANTES and Eotaxin.
   Preferably, said binding molecules are solving the blockade of immune activation via
15 binding to costimulatory molecules from the list of CD3/CD28, HVEM, B7.1/B7.2,
   CD40/CD40L(CD154),                 ICOS/ICOSL,       OX40/X40L,          CD27/CD27L(CD70),
   CD30/CD30L(CD153) and 41BB/41BBL. Preferably, said binding molecules are solving
   the blockade of inflammation via binding to adhesion molecules from the list I-CAM1, a4
   integrin and a4p7 integrin. Preferably, said binding molecules have a costimulatory and
20 agonistic effect on CD3, CTLA4 and/or PD1. Preferably, said binding molecules are
   neutralizing T-cells or B-cell activity by targeting CD25, CD20, CD52, CD95, BAFF,
   APRIL and/or IgE. Preferably, said binding molecules are solving the blockade of
   inflammation via binding to enzymes from the MMP family. Preferably, said binding
   molecules assert an anti-angiogenic effect, such as neutralizing avp3/a5p1 and IL-8
25 activity. In a further preferred embodiment said binding molecule or antibody (or
   functional fragment) is capable of neutralizing the biological effect of TNFa, ]IL-12, IFNy,
   IL-23 or IL-17.
   Non-limiting examples of antibodies or binding molecules which can be used as
30 heterologous genes in the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein include:
   -            an anti-TNFa antibody, anti-TNFa antibody fragment, anti-TNFa :single
   antibody variable domain, soluble TNF receptor or dominant negative variant of TNFa;
   -            anti-IL-12 antibody, anti-IL-12 antibody fragment, anti-IL-12 :single antibody
35 variable domain, soluble IL-12 receptor, dominant negative variant of IL-12 or IL-12 dAb;
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                         32
   -            anti-IL-12p35 antibody, anti-IL-12p35 antibody fragment, anti-IL-12p35] single
   antibody variable domain, soluble IL-12p35 receptor, dominant negative variant of IL
   12p35 or IL-12p35 dAb;
   -            anti-IL-12p40 antibody, anti-IL-12p40 antibody fragment, anti-IL-12p40] single
 5 antibody variable domain, soluble IL-12p40 receptor, dominant negative variant of IL
   12p40 or IL-12p40 dAb;
   -            anti-IL-23 antibody, anti-IL-23 antibody fragment, anti-IL-23] single antibody
   variable domain, soluble IL-23 receptor, dominant negative variant of IL-23 or IL-23 dAb;
   -            anti-IL-23p19 antibody, anti-IL-23p19 antibody fragment, anti-IL-23p19 :single
10 antibody variable domain, soluble IL-23p19 receptor, dominant negative variant of IL
   23pi9 or IL-23p19 dAb;
   -            an anti-IFNy antibody, anti-IFNy antibody fragment, anti-IFNy] single antibody
   variable domain, soluble IFNy receptor or dominant negative variant of IFNy; I
   -            anti-IL-17 antibody, anti-IL-17 antibody fragment, anti-IL-17]single antibody
15 variable domain, soluble IL-17 receptor, dominant negative variant of IL-17 or IL-17 dAb;
   and
   -            anti-MCP-1            antibody, anti-MCP-1  antibody fragment, anti-MCP-1 single
   antibody variable domain, soluble IL-17 receptor, dominant negative variant of MCP-1 or
   MCP-1 dAb.
20
   In a preferred embodiment, said antibody is a Fab fragment (fragment antigen-binding).
   Fab fragments are well known in the art. By means of further guidance, a Fab fragment
   is a region on an antibody that binds to antigens. It is composed of one constant and one
   variable domain of each of the heavy and the light chain.
25
   In an embodiment, the Fab is cA2 anti-TNF Fab (of which the polynucleotide and
   polypeptide sequences of the variable domain of the heavy chain and the light chain are
   disclosed in US 6,790,444 as SEQ ID NO: 4 and 5 (heavy chain) and SEQ ID NO: 2 and
   3 (light chain), respectively) or CDP870 anti-TNF Fab (of which the polynucleotide and
30 polypeptide sequences of the heavy chain and the light chain are disclosed in WO
   01/94585 as SEQ ID NO: 114 and 115 (heavy chain) and SEQ ID NO: 112 and 113 (light
   chain), respectively).
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                33
   The skilled person will appreciate that antibodies, as are functional antibody fragments,
   and in particular Fab fragments, are composed of different individual polypeptides which
   may be covalently linked by disulphide bridges. In particular, the heavy chain and the
   light chain are encoded by separate individual coding sequences.
 5
   Accordingly, in an embodiment the heterologous gene disclosed herein encodes an
   antigen and/or a (neutralizing) antibody or functional fragment or variant thereof and/or
   a prophylactically and/or therapeutically active peptide, polypeptide or protein, wherein
   the said antigen is capable of eliciting an immune response, preferably protective
10 immune response or immune tolerance response, in a human or animal subject, and/or
   the said prophylactically and/or therapeutically gene product, polypeptide or protein is
   capable of producing a prophylactic and/or therapeutic effect in a human or animal
   subject.
15 In an embodiment, the invention relates to gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic
   acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein or the gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, for use as
   described herein which are formulated for storage. In particular, in an embodiment, the
   invention relates to gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
20 Bifidobacterium, as described herein which are frozen, dried, freeze-dried, spray-dried
   or stored in medium.
   As explained heretofore, the invention also relates to a composition comprising the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as
25 described herein or comprising the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, for use as described herein. Such composition may
   be a pharmaceutical composition. In a further embodiment, the invention relates to a
   composition or a pharmaceutical composition for use in treatment or for use as a
   medicament, a nutraceutical, a medical food, a functional food, a probiotic composition,
30 a food additive or a starter culture. In yet another embodiment, the invention relates to
   the use of such composition or pharmaceutical composition as a medicament,
   nutraceutical, medical food, functional food, probiotic, food additive, starter culture, or for
   the preparation of a medicament nutraceutical, medical food, functional food, probiotic
   composition, food additive, starter culture.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   34
   As used herein, the medicinal compositions as described herein, such as pharmaceutical
   formulation, nutraceutical, medical or functional food or probiotic, preferably comprises
   a therapeutically effective amount of the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable
 5 carrier, i.e., one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier substances and/or
   additives, e.g., buffers, carriers, excipients, stabilisers, etc. The term "pharmaceutically
   acceptable" as used herein is consistent with the art and means compatible with the
   other ingredients of a pharmaceutical composition and not deleterious to the recipient
   thereof.
10
   In an embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a therapeutically effective
   amount of the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as described herein. The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers
   to an amount of a therapeutic substance or composition effective to treat a disease or
15 disorder in a subject, e.g., human or animal, i.e., to obtain a desired local or systemic
   effect and performance. By means of example, a therapeutically effective amount of
   bacteria may comprise at least 1 bacterium, or at least 10 bacteria, or at least 102 bacteria,
   or at least 103 bacteria, or at least 104 bacteria, or at least 101 bacteria, or at least 106
   bacteria, or at least 101 bacteria, or at least 108 bacteria, or at least 101, or at least 1010,
20 or at least 1011, or at least 1012, or at least 1013, or at least 1014, or at least 1015, or more
   host cells, e.g., bacteria, e.g., in a single or repeated dose. The gram positive bacterium,
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, of the present invention may
   be administered alone or in combination with one or more active compounds. The latter
   can be administered before, after or simultaneously with the administration of the gram
25 positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according
   to the invention.
   Preferably the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as described herein or composition comprising these gram positive
30 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, is provided in a
   unit dosage form, for example a tablet, capsule, enema or metered aerosol dose, so that
   a single dose is administered to the subject, e.g. a human or animal patient.
   The active ingredients may be administered from 1 to 6 times a day, sufficient to exhibit
35 the desired activity. These daily doses can be given as a single dose once daily, or can
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                           35
   be given as two or more smaller doses at the same or different times of the day which in
   total give the specified daily dose. Preferably, the active ingredient is administered once
   or twice a day. For instance, one dose could be taken in the morning and one later in the
   day.
 5
   In all aspects of the invention, the daily maintenance dose can be given for a period
   clinically desirable in the patient, for example from 1 day up to several years (e.g. for the
   mammal's entire remaining life); for example from about (2 or 3 or 5 days, 1 or 2 weeks,
   or 1 month) upwards and/or for example up to about (5 years, 1 year, 6 months, 1 month,
10 1 week, or 3 or 5 days). Administration of the daily maintenance dose for about 3 to about
   5 days or for about 1 week to about 1 year is typical. Other constituents of the liquid
   formulations may include preservatives, inorganic salts, acids, bases, buffers, nutrients,
   vitamins, or other pharmaceuticals.
15 The human or animal subjects as taught herein may refer to human or animal in need of
   therapy or treatment, comprising administering to the said human or animal a
   therapeutically effective amount of gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as taught herein. The animal may preferably be a
   warm-blooded animal, more preferably a vertebrate, even more preferably a mammal,
20 such as, e.g., domestic animals, farm animals, zoo animals, sport animals, pet and
   experimental animals such as dogs, cats, guinea pigs, rabbits, rats, mice, horses, cattle,
   cows; primates such as apes, monkeys, orang-utans, and chimpanzees; canids such as
   dogs and wolves; felids such as cats, lions, and tigers; equids such as horses, donkeys,
   and zebras; food animals such as cows, pigs, and sheep; ungulates such as deer and
25 giraffes; rodents such as mice, rats, hamsters and guinea pigs; and so on. Generally,
   the term "subject" or "patient" may be used interchangeably and particularly refer to
   animals, preferably warm-blooded animals, more preferably vertebrates, even more
   preferably mammals, still more preferably primates, and specifically includes human
   patients and non-human animals, mammals and primates. Preferred patients may be
30 human subjects.
   Further non-limiting examples of the types of diseases treatable in humans or animals
   by delivery of gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium,                   as described herein, optionally expressing prophylactic and/or
35 therapeutic peptides, polypeptides or proteins, include, but are not limited to, e.g.,
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                    36
   inflammatory bowel diseases including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (treatable
   with, e.g., IL-Ira or IL-10 or IL-27 or trefoil peptides); autoimmune diseases, including but
   not limited to type-1 diabetes, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus erythematosus
   (treatable with, e.g., IL-Ira or IL-10 or IL-27 or the relevant auto-antigen); allergic
 5 diseases including but not limited to asthma, food allergies, (treatable with the relevant
   allergen); celiac disease (treatable with gluten allergens and/or IL-27); neurological
   disorders including, but not limited to Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and
   amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (treatable with, e.g., brain devated neurotropic factor and
   ciliary neurotropic factor); cancer (treatable with, e.g., IL-1, colony stimulating factors or
10 interferon-W); osteoporosis (treatable with, e.g., transforming growth factor f3); diabetes
   (treatable with, e.g., insulin); cardiovascular disease (treatable with, e.g., tissue
   plasminogen activator); atherosclerosis (treatable with, e.g., cytokines and cytokine
   antagonists); hemophilia (treatable with, e.g., clotting factors); degenerative liver disease
   (treatable with, e.g., hepatocyte growth factor or interferon a); pulmonary diseases such
15 as cystic fibrosis (treatable with, e.g., alpha antitrypsin); obesity; pathogen infections,
   e.g., viral or bacterial infections (treatable with any number of the above-mentioned
   compositions or antigens); etc.
   The gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
20 according to the invention can also be used to treat infectious diseases. In an
   embodiment, passive immunization against Clostridium associated disease, preferably
   Clostridium dificile associated disease (CDAD), with toxin-neutralizing antibodies locally
   produced and secreted via the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention can be obtained. CDAD
25 is mediated by two exotoxins, toxin A (enterotoxin; see for instance Genbank
   NC_009089.1, region: 795843..803975 for DNA sequence or YP_001087137.1 for
   protein sequence) and toxin B (cytotoxin; see for instance Genbank NC_009089.1,
   region: 787393..794493 for DNA sequence or YP_001087135.1 for protein sequence).
   Both are high-molecular-mass proteins that bind to the surface of intestinal epithelial
30 cells, where they are internalized and catalyze the glucosylation of cytoplasmic rho
   proteins, leading to cell death, inflammation and diarrhea. They have also been
   implicated in promoting C. difficile virulence, colonization, and neutrophil chemotaxis and
   activation. The bacteria itself is not invasive and does not cause tissue damage. By
   neutralizing the C. difficile toxins with antibodies, the pathogenic mechanism of the
35 pathogen is blocked, its ability to thrive in the gut may be diminished, and the impact on
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  37
   the microbial ecology could be minimized, allowing recovery of the normal microflora.
   The medical advantage of this approach could include more rapid recovery, fewer
   relapses, and relief from selective pressure for antibiotic resistance in normal gut flora.
   Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment, the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic
 5 acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein further contain, express,
   produce, and/or secrete neutralizing           antibodies against  Clostridium,   preferably
   Clostridium dificile, toxin A and/or toxin B, wherein each of these toxins preferably has
   the sequence as indicated above. The skilled reader will understand that besides full
   length antibodies, various functional fragments or modified or variant antibodies may be
10 used, as described herein elsewhere.
   The skilled reader shall appreciate that the herein specifically recited diseases are only
   exemplary and their recitation is in no way intended to confine the use of the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as taught
15 herein, to these particular diseases. Instead, a skilled reader understands that the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, disclosed
   herein can be used to express in principle any expression products, preferably
   polypeptides, of interest, which may be of therapeutic relevance in not only the recited
   ones but also in various further diseases or conditions of humans and animals.
20 Consequently, once a suitable expression product, preferably a polypeptide, e.g., an
   antigen and/or a prophylactically and/or therapeutically gene product, polypeptide or
   protein, has been chosen or determined for a given ailment, a skilled person would be
   able to achieve its expression, isolation and/or delivery using the present reagents.
25 The gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   of the invention can be suspended in a pharmaceutical formulation for administration to
   the human or animal having the disease to be treated. Such pharmaceutical formulations
   include but are not limited to live host cells and a medium suitable for administration. The
   recombinant host cells may be lyophilized in the presence of common excipients such
30 as lactose, other sugars, alkaline and/or alkali earth stearate, carbonate and/or sulphate
   (for example, magnesium stearate, sodium carbonate and sodium sulphate), kaolin,
   silica, flavorants and aromas.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                38
   The gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   according to the invention so-lyophilized may be prepared in the form of capsules, tablets,
   granulates and powders, each of which may be administered by the oral route.
 5 Alternatively, some gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, may be prepared as aqueous suspensions in suitable media, or
   lyophilized bacteria may be suspended in a suitable medium just prior to use, such
   medium including the excipients referred to herein and other excipients such as glucose,
   glycine and sodium saccharinate.
10
   For oral administration, gastroresistant oral dosage forms may be formulated, which
   dosage forms may also include compounds providing controlled release of the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, and
   thereby provide controlled release of the desired protein encoded therein. For example,
15 the oral dosage form (including tablets, pellets, granulates, powders) may be coated with
   a thin layer of excipient (usually polymers, cellulosic derivatives and/or lipophilic
   materials) that resists dissolution or disruption in the stomach, but not in the intestine,
   thereby allowing transit through the stomach in favour of disintegration, dissolution and
   absorption in the intestine.
20
   The oral dosage form may be designed to allow slow release of the gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, (and optionally of
   the therapeutic and/or phrophylactice gene product thereof), for instance as controlled
   release, sustained release, prolonged release, sustained action tablets or capsules.
25 These dosage forms usually contain conventional and well known excipients, such as
   lipophilic, polymeric, cellulosic, insoluble, swellable excipients. Controlled release
   formulations may also be used for any other delivery sites including intestinal, colon,
   bioadhesion or sublingual delivery (i.e., dental mucosal delivery) and bronchial delivery.
   When the compositions of the invention are to be administered rectally or vaginally,
30 pharmaceutical formulations may include suppositories and creams. In this instance, the
   host cells are suspended in a mixture of common excipients also including lipids. Each
   of the aforementioned formulations are well known in the art and are described, for
   example, in the following references: Hansel et al. (1990, Pharmaceutical dosage forms
   and drug delivery systems, 5th edition, William and Wilkins); Chien 1992, Novel drug
35 delivery system, 2nd edition, M. Dekker); Prescott et al. (1989, Novel drug delivery, J.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  39
   Wiley & Sons); Cazzaniga et al., (1994, Oral delayed release system for colonic specific
   delivery, Int. J. Pharm.i08:7').
   Preferably, an enema formulation may be used for rectal administration. The term
 5 "enema" is used to cover liquid preparations intended for rectal use. The enema may be
   usually supplied in single-dose containers and contains one or more active substances
   dissolved or dispersed in water, glycerol or macrogols or other suitable solvents.
   A preferred embodiment of invention provides an enteric coated capsule comprising
10 stabilized freeze-dried, dried, or spray-dried viable gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein characterized in that
   the viable gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, are stabilized using a non-hygroscopic agent. As used herein a non
   hygroscopic agent is meant to include any excipient typically used in the formulation of
15 a pharmaceutical composition and wherein said agent exhibits an equilibrium moisture
   uptake at ambient 40% RH of not more than about 8 wt%, preferably not more than about
   wt 7%, and more preferably not more than about 6 wt%, for example about 1 wt% to
   about 5 wt%, more in particular less or equal to 2 wt%. The non-hygroscopic agent can
   be a polyol such as for example mannitol, maltitol, isomalt (polyol sugar) or a phosphate
20 salt such as for example anhydrous dicalcium phosphate dibasic calcium phosphate,
   calcium hydrogen phosphate, or for example a sugar such as sucrose.
   The capsule used in the aforementioned formulation is typically selected from the group
   consisting of a gelatin capsule, a starch capsule, a hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC)
25 capsule and the like; in particular a HPMC capsule. For the intestinal delivery of viable
   bacteria, the enteric-coated capsules of the present invention should be stable at low pH
   (up to pH 5.5) and have an accelerated dissolution profile at higher pH (above pH 5.5).
   The optimal release is realized when the capsules desintegrate at a pH of about 6.8
   within 1 hour. Thus, in a further embodiment of the present invention the capsules are
30 coated with an enteric polymer to provide an enteric coated capsule that is stable at a
   pH up to 5.5 and that is soluble at a pH above 5.5; in particular at a pH above 6.0; more
   in particular with a fast dissolution profile at a pH of about 6.8.
   The enteric polymer used for the enteric coating typically consists of a film-formable
35 polymeric substance, which is soluble at a pH above 5.5, in particular at a pH above 6.0.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   40
   Film-formable polymers useful in the different embodiments of the present invention are
   usually selected from the group consisting of a cellulose derivative, an acrylic copolymer,
   a maleic copolymer, a polyvinyl derivative, shellac and the like; in particular an acrylic
   copolymer selected from the group consisting of styrene-acrylic acid copolymer, methyl
 5 acrylate-acrylic acid copolymer, methyl acrylate-methacrylic acid copolymer, butyl
   acrylate-styrene-acrylic           acid copolymer, methacrylic   acid-methyl   methacrylate
   copolymer such as Eudragit L100, Eudragit S or Eudragit S100 (each being trade name,
   commercially available from Rbhm Pharma, Germany), methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate
   copolymer such as Eudragit L100-55 (trade name, commercially available from Rbhm
10 Pharma, Germany), methyl acrylate-methacrylic acid-octyl acrylate copolymer, and the
   like; more in particular the film-formable polymer consists of methacrylic acid-methyl
   methacrylate copolymer.
   Also a combination of different stabilizing compounds (cryoprotectants) is added to the
15 bacterial biomass before drying, spray-drying, or freeze-drying. This combination of
   stabilizing compounds, comprising a starch hydrolysate and a glutamic acid salt and/or
   a polyol, results in improved survival and stability of dried, spray-dried, or freeze-dried
   gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium.
20 The formulations and capsules as described herein can be used as a medicament,
   nutraceutical, food additive, functional food, medical food, starter culture and/or probiotic
   composition.
   Thus, according the invention, in a preferred embodiment, gram positive bacterium,
25 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein, or the
   (pharmaceutical) compositions comprising these gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, may be administered to the animal or
   human via mucosal, e.g., an oral, nasal, rectal, vaginal or bronchial route by any one of
   the state-of-the art formulations applicable to the specific route. Dosages of gram positive
30 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, for administration
   will vary depending upon any number of factors including the type of bacteria and the
   gene encoded thereby, the type and severity of the disease to be treated and the route
   of administration to be used. Thus, precise dosages cannot be defined for each and
   every embodiment of the invention, but will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art
35 once armed with the present invention. The dosage could be anyhow determined on a
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                            41
   case by case way by measuring the serum level concentrations of the therapeutic and/or
   prophylactic protein after administration of predetermined numbers of cells, using well
   known methods, such as those known as ELISA or Biacore (See examples). The
   analysis of the kinetic profile and half life of the delivered recombinant protein provides
 5 sufficient information to allow the determination of an effective dosage range for the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium.
   In an embodiment, when the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, express an antigen, the invention may thus also provide a
10 vaccine. Preferably, the antigen may be capable of eliciting an immune response in and
   used as a vaccine in a human or animal. The term "vaccine" identifies a pharmaceutically
   acceptable composition that, when administered in an effective amount to an animal or
   human subject is capable of inducing antibodies to an immunogen comprised in the
   vaccine and/or elicits protective immunity in the subject. The vaccine of the invention
15 would comprise the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as taught herein, optionally transformed with the nucleic acids or vectors
   encoding the antigen and further optionally an excipient. Such vaccines may also
   comprise an adjuvant, i.e., a compound or composition that enhances the immune
   response to an antigen. Adjuvants include, but are not limited to, complete Freund's
20 adjuvant, incomplete Freund's adjuvant, saponin, mineral gels such as aluminum
   hydroxide, surface active substances such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions,
   peptides, oil or hydrocarbon emulsions, and potentially useful pharmaceutically
   acceptable               human        adjuvants   such   as   BCG  (bacille  Calmetle-Guerin) and
   Corynebacterium parvum.
25
   In an aspect, the invention relates to a method for treatment or to a therapy, comprising
   administering the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium,                   or compositions,  preferably a therapeutic  and/or prophylactic
   pharmaceutical composition to an individual in need thereof.
30
   As described above, the composition comprising the gram positive bacterium, preferably
   a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention may be a
   starter culture, a probiotic composition, or a food additive. Accordingly, the invention in
   an aspect relates to a starter culture, a probiotic composition, or a food additive
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                          42
   comprising the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, as described herein.
   A starter culture may be, e.g., a liquid culture, liquid pressed culture, frozen or dried form,
 5 including, e.g., dried, freeze-dried form and spray/fluid bed dried form, or frozen or
   freeze-dried concentrated. Accordingly, in and embodiment, the invention relates to a
   starter culture as described herein, which is dried, spray-dried, frozen or freeze dried.
   The culture may be packed in vacuum, or under an atmosphere of, e.g., N2 , C02 and the
   like. For example, a starter culture may be produced and distributed in sealed enclosures,
10 preferably non-pyrogenic, which can be made of a rigid, non-flexible or flexible suitable
   plastic or other material, to the fermentation place and may be either added to organic
   material to be fermented, or optionally first cultivated in a separate starter medium to
   obtain a high density culture.
15 A starter culture may also contain, in addition to the gram positive bacterium, preferably
   a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention, buffering
   agents and growth stimulating nutrients (e.g., an assimilable carbohydrate or a nitrogen
   source), or preservatives (e.g., cryoprotective compounds) or other carriers, if desired,
   such as milk powder or sugars.
20
   A starter culture may be a pure culture, i.e., may contain a biomass of one single isolate
   of gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   according to the invention, i.e. a clone originating in principle from one cell. In another
   embodiment, a starter culture may be a co-culture, i.e., may comprise more than one
25 strain of gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, of the invention, optionally further comprising additional microorganisms
   such as bacteria or yeasts.
   It may be preferred that a starter culture or a high density culture contains at least 102
30 colony forming units (CFU) of one or more gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic
   acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, of the invention, such as at least 103 CFU/g, at
   least 104 CFU/g, e.g., at least 101 CFU/g, at least 106 CFU/g, e.g., at least 101 CFU/g, at
   least 108 CFU/g, e.g., at least 10 CFU/g, at least 1010 CFU/g, e.g., at least 1011 CFU/g,
   at least      1012      CFU/g, or at least 1013 CFU/g.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                            43
   Typically, a starter culture or a high density culture may be added to a starter medium or
   to organic material or substrate to be fermented in a concentration of viable cells of one
   or more bacterial strains (and optionally of one or more yeast strains) which is at least
   102 (CFU) of one or more bacterial strains (and optionally of one or more yeast strains)
 5 of the invention, such as at least 103 CFU/g, at least 104 CFU/g, e.g., at least 101 CFU/g,
   at least 106 CFU/g, e.g., at least 101 CFU/g, at least 108 CFU/g, e.g., at least 101 CFU/g,
   at least 1010 CFU/g, e.g., at least 1011 CFU/g, at least 1012 CFU/g, or at least 1013 CFU/g
   of the organic material, medium or substrate.
10 In an embodiment, the invention relates to a starter culture as defined herein for the
   preparation of a food product or relates to a food additive or or a probiotic composition,
   or a medicament, comprising a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB)                    or Bifidobacterium, lacking cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC
   component (PtcC) activity. In a preferred embodiment the gene encoding endogenous
15 PtcC has been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being
   incapable of producing functional ptcC gene product, as described herein elsewhere. In
   a further embodiment, the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, in the starter culture or the food additive or the probiotic
   composition or the medicament contains functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate
20 phosphatase (e.g. otsB) and/or a functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate
   synthase (e.g. otsA), as described herein elsewhere.
   In another embodiment, the invention relates to a starter culture or food additive or a
   probiotic composition or a medicament as defined herein, wherein the gram positive
25 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, lacks trehalose
   6-phosphate pohosphorylase (TrePP) activity. In a preferred embodiment the gene
   encoding endogenous the gene encoding endogenous TrePP has been partially or
   completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of producing
   functional TrePP gene product, as described herein elsewhere.
30
   In a further embodiment, the invention relates to a starter culture or food additive,
   probiotic composition, or medicament as described herein, wherein the gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, overexpresses,
   preferably constitutively overexpresses, one or more genes encoding a trehalose
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  44
   transporter, preferably an endogenous trehalose transporter, as described herein
   elsewhere.
   In yet another embodiment, the invention relates to a starter culture, probiotic
 5 composition, or food additive or medicament as described herein, wherein the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   expresses one or more heterologous gene product, preferably one or more prophylactic
   and/or therapeutic gene product, as described herein elsewhere.
10 In an embodiment, the starter culture, probiotic composition, or food additive as
   described herein is dried, frozen or spray-dried, dried, or freeze-dried.
   As indicated above, in an aspect, the invention relates to the use of the gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described
15 herein for the preparation of a probiotic composition, starter culture, preferably for use
   as a food additive or for use in the preparation of a food product or for the preparation of
   a medicament. In a further aspect, the invention relates to the use of a starter culture or
   a probiotic composition as a food additive or for the preparation of a food product.
20 As used herein, the term "food additive" refers to gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, preferably formulated in a composition,
   which can be added to a human or animal food or feed, suitable for consumption without
   further modification or alternatively after further modification, such as complete or partial
   fermentation of the food or feed or the complete or partial fermentation of one or more
25 components of the food or feed. By means of example, and without limitation, the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according
   to the invention, or the compositions according to the invention, such as the starter
   cultures described herein, may be used in the dairy industry, in particular for the
   preparation of fermented milk products, also known as cultured dairy foods, cultured
30 dairy products, or cultured milk products. The fermentation process increases the shelf
   life of the product, as well as adds to the taste and improves the digestibility of milk.
   Examples of food products referred to herein, include, but are not limited to cheese,
   yoghurt, sour cream, buttermilk, acidophilus milk,
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                    45
   In an aspect, the invention also relates to a method for preparing a medicament, a food
   additive, a probiotic composition or a starter culture as defined herein, wherein said
   starter culture is preferably a starter culture for the preparation of a food product,
   comprising the steps of:
 5 i)           propagating gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
                Bifidobacterium, as defined herein in a medium comprising a substrate material
                capable of being fermented by said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic
                acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, and
   ii)          formulating the so propagated gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
10              bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as a medicament, food additive, a probiotic
                composition or starter culture, respectively.
   Methods for propagating gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, as well as media and substrates capable of being fermented by gram
15 positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, are well
   known in the art. In an embodiment, the formulation as a medicament, food additive, a
   probiotic composition or starter culture comprises formulating as a liquid culture, liquid
   pressed culture, frozen or dried form, including, e.g., dried, freeze-dried form and
   spray/fluid bed dried form, or frozen or freeze-dried concentrated. Preferably, the
20 formulation comprises drying, spray-drying, freezing or freeze-drying.
   In a further aspect, the invention also relates to a method for preparing a food product,
   comprising the step of admixing the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as defined herein, the food additive as defined
25 herein, the probiotic composition as defined herein, or the starter culture as defined
   herein with a substrate material capable of being fermented by said gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. The substrate
   material is typically a carbon source, preferably a carbohydrate or sugar. Carbohydrates
   capable of being fermented by gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
30 bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, include, but are not limited to monosaccharides or
   disaccharides such as glucose, fructose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, maltose, trehalose,
   cellobiose, ... In an embodiment, the method for preparing a food product comprises the
   steps of :
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                     46
   i)           providing the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
                Bifidobacterium, food additive, probiotic composition, or the starter culture as
                described herein;
   ii)          providing a substrate material or a composition, preferably a non-toxic or an
 5              edible composition, comprising a substrate material which is capable of being
                fermented by said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
                (LAB) or Bifidobacterium;
   iii)         admixing the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
                Bifidobacterium, as defined herein, food additive as defined herein, the probiotic
10              composition as defined herein, or the starter culture as defined herein with the
                substrate material or composition
   iv)          optionally propagating said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
                bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, and/or fermenting said substrate material or
                composition with said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
15              (LAB) or Bifidobacterium.
   In an aspect, the invention also relates to a food product directly or indirectly obtained or
   obtainable by the herein described methods.
20 As described before, the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention advantageously accumulate trehalose
   intracellularly. Accordingly, in an aspect, the invention also relates to a method for
   internally accumulating trehalose in a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, such as trehalose being present in the growth
25 medium, or externally or exogenously added trehalose, comprising the step of
   propagating gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, according to the invention in a medium comprising a substrate material
   capable of being fermented by said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
   bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In an embodiment, the method for internally
30 accumulating trehalose in a gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, comprises the steps of:
   i)           providing the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
                Bifidobacterium, or the starter culture as described herein;
   ii)          providing a substrate material or a composition, preferably a non-toxic or an
35              edible composition, comprising a substrate material which is capable of being
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                           47
                fermented by said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
                (LAB) or Bifidobacterium;
   iii)         admixing the LAB as defined herein, or the starter culture as defined herein with
                the substrate material or composition
 5 iv)          optionally propagating said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
                bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, and/or fermenting said substrate material or
                composition with said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
                (LAB) or Bifidobacterium.
10 The gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   according to the invention advantageously show an improved resistance to stress as well
   as improved manufacturing, processing and/or storage characteristics. Accordingly, in
   an aspect, the invention relates to a method for improving stress resistance or
   manufacturing, processing and/or storage characteristics of a gram positive bacterium,
15 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, comprising modifying the
   gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   such as to lack PtcC activity. In an embodiment, the gene encoding endogenous ptcC
   has been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being
   incapable of producing functional ptcC gene product. Preferably the stress resistance or
20 manufacturing, processing and/or storage characteristics is one or more stress
   resistance or manufacturing, processing and/or storage characteristics selected from the
   group comprising resistance to acid conditions, resistance to bile salts, resistance to heat,
   resistance to salt, resistance to drying, spray-drying, freezing or freeze-drying, and
   osmotic resistance.
25
   In an embodiment, the invention relates to any of the methods as described herein,
   wherein the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium,                   does contains functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate
   phosphatase (e.g. otsB) and/or a functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate
30 synthase (e.g. otsA), as described herein elsewhere.
   In another embodiment, the invention relates any of the methods as described herein,
   wherein the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, lacks trehalose 6-phosphate phosphorylase (TrePP) activity. In a
35 preferred embodiment the gene encoding endogenous TrePP has been partially or
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               48
   completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of producing
   functional TrePP gene product, as described herein elsewhere.
   In a further embodiment, the invention relates to any of the methods as described herein,
 5 wherein the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, overexpresses, preferably constitutively overexpresses, one or more
   genes encoding a trehalose transporter, preferably an endogenous trehalose transporter,
   as described herein elsewhere.
10 In yet another embodiment, the invention relates to any of the methods as described
   herein, wherein the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   Bifidobacterium, expresses one or more heterologous gene product, preferably one or
   more prophylactic and/or therapeutic gene product, as described herein elsewhere.
15 In an embodiment, the invention relates to any of the methods as described herein,
   further comprising the step of drying, freezing, spray-drying, or freeze-drying the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   medicament, food additive, probiotic composition, or starter culture.
20 The inventors have surprisingly found that the gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention are capable of
   intracellularly accumulating trehalose without the addition of externally added trehalose.
   Advantageously, the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention can be propagated in medium optionally
25 even without externally added trehalose but still accumulate trehalose internally.
   Accordingly, in an embodiment, the invention relates to the methods as described herein,
   comprising the step of maintaining or propagating the gram positive bacterium,
   preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein in a
   medium lacking or substantially lacking trehalose, or a medium lacking or substantially
30 lacking externally or exogenously added trehalose. Advantageously, such medium can
   comprise another fermentable carbon source, such as, but without limitation maltose
   and/or glucose.
   Accordingly, in an embodiment, the invention relates to any of the methods as described
35 herein, wherein the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               49
   Bifidobacterium, according to the invention are maintained or propagated in a medium
   comprising a substrate material capable of being fermented by said gram positive
   bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, wherein said
   substrate material comprises less (such as suboptimal), does not comprise or
 5 substantially does not comprise trehalose. Alternatively, the invention relates to any of
   the methods as described herein, wherein the gram positive bacterium, preferably a
   lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention are maintained
   or propagated in a medium comprising a substrate material capable of being fermented
   by said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or
10 Bifidobacterium, wherein said substrate material comprises maltose. In a preferred
   embodiment, the invention relates to any of the methods as described herein, wherein
   the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium,
   according to the invention are maintained or propagated in a medium comprising a
   substrate material capable of being fermented by said gram positive bacterium,
15 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, wherein said substrate
   material comprises maltose and wherein said substrate material comprises less (such
   as suboptimal), does not comprise or substantially does not comprise trehalose.
   As used herein, a medium comprising no or substantially no trehalose or no externally
20 added or exogenous trehalose refers to a medium which does not contain trehalose or
   which        only contains small quantities of trehalose. Preferably, the amount or
   concentration of trehalose in such medium is too low to allow for the bacteria to be able
   to use as a sole carbon source. In an embodiment, the medium contains less than 100
   mM, preferably less than 50 mM, more preferably less than 25mM, such as less than 15
25 mM, less than 10 mM, less than 5 mM, less than 2 mM, or less than 1 mM. In a further
   embodiment, the medium contains less than 2 w/w% or less than 2 v/w% trehalose,
   preferably less than 1 w/w% or less than 1 v/w% trehalose, more preferably less than
   0.5 w/w% or less than 0.5 v/w% trehalose, such as less than 0.3, less than 0.2, less than
   0.1, less than 0.05, or less than 0.01 w/w% or v/w% trehalose. In another embodiment,
30 the medium contains less than 20% trehalose of the total amount of carbon source or
   fermentable carbohydrate, preferably less than 10%, more preferably less than 5%, such
   as less than 3%, less than 2%, or less than 1%.
   In a further aspect, the invention relates to the use of the gram positive bacterium,
35 preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein to
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                50
   accumulate intracellular trehalose in said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic
   acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In a preferred embodiment, the invention
   relates to the use of the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, as described herein to accumulate intracellular trehalose in said gram
 5 positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, in the
   absence or substantial absence of trehalose. In another embodiment, the invention
   relates to the use of the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, as described herein to accumulate intracellular trehalose in said gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, when
10 maintained or propagated on maltose, preferably as the sole or substantially sole carbon
   source.
   As described above, the gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB)
   or Bifidobacterium, according to the invention show an improved resistance to a variety
15 of environmental stresses as well as improved manufacturing, processing and/or storage
   characteristics. Accordingly, in an aspect, the invention relates to the use of the gram
   positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as
   described herein to improve stress resistance or to improve manufacturing, processing
   and/or storage characteristics in said gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid
20 bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium. In a further aspect, the invention relates to a method
   for improving stress resistance or for improving manufacturing, processing and/or
   storage characteristics in gram positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium
   (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, comprising generating the gram positive bacterium, preferably
   a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, as described herein.
25
   In an embodiment, the stress resistance is selected from the group comprising resistance
   to acid conditions, resistance to bile salts, heat resistance, resistance to salt, cold
   resistance, osmotic resistance, preferably selected from resistance to acid conditions or
   bile salts, more preferably resistance to bile salts. In another embodiment, the
30 manufacturing, processing and/or storage characteristics are selected from the group
   comprising drying, freezing, freeze-drying, spray-drying or storage in medium, preferably
   freezing or freeze-drying, more preferably freeze-drying.
   The aspects and embodiments of the invention are further supported by the following
35 non-limiting examples.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                            51
   EXAMPLES
   Table 1 provides an overview of genetic modifications in strains described herein, except
 5 for strains used in Figure 4 which are given in Table 2.
   Table 1
                              a) trehalose operon
           strain              trehalose           b) ptcC       c) otsB     d) thyA       e) Cargo
                                 PTS 1/11   TrePP
                                    wt                                      KO (gene    PhIIA>>hlL-10
       sAGX0037             (Ptre>>PTS)       wt      wt             -    replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt                                      KO (gene    PhIIA>>hTFF1
       sAGX0085             (Ptre>>PTS)       wt      wt             -    replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt                          usp45>>     KO (gene    PhIIA>>hlL-10
       sAGX0137             (Ptre>>PTS)       wt      wt      mutant otsB replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt                                      KO (gene    PhIIA>>hlL-10
       sAGX0139             (Ptre>>PTS)       wt      wt      usp45>>otsB replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt                          usp45>>     KO (gene    PhIIA>>hlL-10
       sAGX0147             (Ptre>>PTS)       KO      wt      mutant otsB replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt                                      KO (gene    PhIIA>>hlL-10
       sAGX0148             (Ptre>>PTS)       KO      wt      usp45>>otsB replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                                                            KO (gene    PhIIA>>hlL-10
       sAGX0167              PhIIA>>PTS       KO      wt      usp45>>otsB replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt                                      KO (gene    PhllA>>hTFF-1
       sAGX0169             (Ptre>>PTS)       KO      wt             -    replacement)   (thyA locus)
                                    wt            KO (stop
       sAGX0248             (Ptre>>PTS)       KO   codon)            -         wt
                                    wt
       sAGX0272             (Ptre>>PTS)       KO      wt             -         wt
                                                                            KO (gene   usp45>>CDP870
       sAGX0309              PhIIA>>PTS       KO      wt             -      deletion)      anti-TNF
                                                                            KO (gene   usp45>>CDP870
       sAGX0319                    KO         KO      wt             -      deletion)      anti-TNF
                                                  KO (stop                  KO (gene
       sAGX0346              PhIIA>>PTS       KO   codon)     usp45>>otsB   deletion)
                                                  KO (gene                  KO (gene
       sAGX0347              PhIIA>>PTS       KO  deletion)   usp45>>otsB   deletion)
                                                  KO (stop                  KO (gene   gapB>>CDP870
       sAGX0354              PhIIA>>PTS       KO   codon)     usp45>>otsB   deletion)      anti-TNF
   Overview of genetic modifications in strains described herein. Indicated is a) the structure
10 of the trehalose operon: whether the native trehalose operon promoter (Ptre) precedes
   the trehalose PTS transporters (Ptre>>PTS) and whether trePP was deleted (KO) or not
   (wild type; wt); b) structure of the ptcC gene: wild type (wt), inactivated (KO) by insertion
   of a stop codon or gene deletion; c) absence (-) or presence of functionally inactive
   (mutant) otsB or wild type otsB, either inserted at the thyA locus following the thyA
15 promoter (PthyA>>otsB) or inserted as a second cistron following the usp45 gene
   (usp45>>otsB); d) structure of the thyA gene: wild type (wt) or inactivated (KO) by gene
   deletion or insertion of a cargo gene (gene replacement); e) absence (-) or nature and
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                            52
   structure of uidA, hIL-10 or anti-TNF CDP870 cargo genes, inserted at the thyA locus
   under control of the hllA promoter (PhIIA>>) or inserted downstream of the usp45 or
   gapB genes (usp45>>; gapB>>). All strains are derived from L. lactis MG 1363.
 5 Table 2
           Strain              Inactivated  Inactivated                Inactivated protein product
                                   Gene      Gene ID
        sAGX0241                   pmrB      4799106    multidrug resistance efflux pump
       sAGX0242                     celB     4796591    cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component
       sAGX0245                     araJ     4796972    putative arabinose efflux permease
       sAGX0246                     ptcB     4797109    cellobiose-specific PTS system IIB component
       sAGX0247                     ptcA     4798642    cellobiose-specific PTS system IIA component
       sAGX0248                     ptcC     4796893    cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component
       sAGX0249                   msmK       4797024    multiple sugar-binding transport ATP-binding protein
       sAGX0250                11mg_0453     4797778    sucrose-specific PTS enzyme IIABC (tre operon)
       sAGX0251                Ilmg_0454     4797093    beta-glucoside-specific PTS system IIABC
                                          5  component               (tre operon)
       sAGX0252                11mg_0489     4796717    sugar transport system permease protein
       sAGX0253                11mg_0490     4796719    sugar transport system permease protein
       sAGX0255                    maIG      4798664    maltose ABC transporter permease protein maIG
       sAGX0256                    malF      4798442    maltose transport system permease protein malF
       sAGX0257                    malE      4798313    maltose ABC transporter substrate binding protein
       sAGX0258                      IplB    4798767    sugar ABC transporter substrate binding protein
       sAGX0259                      IplC    4796680    sugar ABC transporter permease
       sAGX0260                      IplA    4797636    sugar ABC transporter substrate-binding protein
       sAGX0261                     bg|P     4797495    PTS system, beta-glucosides specific enzyme IIABC
       sAGX0262                11mg_1104     4798113    drug-export protein
       sAGX0265                    tagG      4798685    teichoic acid ABC transporter permease protein
   Overview of strains constructed to identify the trehalose exit port. Strains were
   constructed that are deficient in trePP to allow trehalose accumulation and in which a
   selection of genes, taken from L. lactis COGs functional categories "Carbohydrate
10 transport and metabolism"
   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sutils/cogtik.cgi?gi=20494&cog=G (from which gene and
   protein nomenclature was taken) are inactivated. The Gene ID of inactivated genes is
   indicated as well as the inactivated protein product.
15 Gene         inactivation was            performed    by oligonucleotide       directed    recombineering,
   introducing in-frame stopcodons in the respective target genes. All strains are derived
   from L. lactis MG1363
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               53
   EXAMPLE 1: Intracellular trehalose accumulation following trePP inactivation
   Experimental
 5 Strains were grown overnight (A) or for 24 hours (B) in 50 ml GM1 7T+500mM trehalose
   at 300C, cells were collected by centrifugation and trehalose content was determined:
   equivalents of 10 ml overnight culture were washed 3 times with 0.25 M carbonate buffer
   where after weight of the cell pellet (wet weight) was determined. Cells were lysed in 1
   ml 0.25 M carbonate buffer using the lysing matrix B and the MP Fasprep-24 device at
10 6 m/s for 40 seconds (MP Biomedicals). Supernatant of the lysed cells was separated
   by centrifugation and heated for 30 minutes at 990C. Cell debris was removed by
   centrifugation and the supernatant was assayed for trehalose concentration using a
   trehalose assay kit (K-TREH 010/10, Megazyme, Ireland). Briefly, trehalose in the
   samples is hydrolysed to D-glucose by trehalase, and the D-glucose released is
15 phosphorylated by the enzyme hexokinase and adenosine-5'triphoshate (ATP) to
   glucose-6-phosphate with the simultaneous formation of adenosine-5'diphosphate
   (ADP). In the presence of the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glucose-6
   phosphate is oxidized by nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP+) to
   gluconate-6-phosphate with the formation of reduced nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide
20 phosphate (NADPH). The amount of NADPH formed in this reaction is stoichiometric
   with the amount of D-glucose and thus with the amount of trehalose. It is the NADPH
   which is measured by the increase in absorbance at 340 nm (in comparison to the OD340
   before the addition of threhalose). Trehalose values were calculated by use of a serial
   dilution of a trehalose standard and expressed as mg/g wet cell pellet weight (ww)
25
   Results
   Intracellular trehalose accumulation is possible following trePP inactivation, following
   otsB expression or a combination thereof, as indicated in Figure 1. Figure 1 (A) depicts
30 TrePP wild type strains (sAGX0037 and sAGX0137) do not accumulate trehalose.
   Inactivation of trePP in sAGX0137 (containing a non-functional mutant otsB), leading to
   sAGX0147, allows for the accumulation of trehalose. Insertion of wild type otsB
   sAGX0037, leading to sAGX01 39, allows for the accumulation of trehalose. Combination
   of otsB and trePP KO leads to a moderate increase in trehalose accumulation
35 (sAGX0148) which is greatly potentiated by the insertion of the strong constitutive PhIIA
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                54
   promoter (which is disclosed in WO 2008/084115) in front of both phosphotransferase
   system (PTS) genes of the L. lactis trehalose operon (sAGXO167).
   Figure 1 (B) shows that TrePP wild type strain sAGX0085 cannot accumulate trehalose.
   Inactivation of trePP KO (sAGX01 69) only allows for the accumulation of trehalose.
 5
   From Figure 1 it is clear that TrePP wild type strains do not accumulate trehalose. Gene
   disruption (gene deletion but also point mutation) of trePP allows intracellular
   accumulation of exogenous trehalose. In strain sAGX0147 a non-functional otsB mutant
   gene is present, while strains sAGXO169, sAGX0309 and sAGX0319 cary no otsB genes.
10 Strain sAGX0169 carries, except for the hTFF1 cargo gene present in the thyA locus, no
   other genetic alteration than the disruption of trePP. Trehalose accumulation in a trePP
   KO strain is unexpected as one would deem, according to the prior art, this to be critically
   dependent on a trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase (otsB or analogue). Such function
   has not been described in L. lactis and would not be expected to be present as it would
15 counteract the metabolism of trehalose by L. lactis by converting trehalose-6-phosphate
   to the inert intracellular trehalose. We here observe that, unexpectedly, this function is
   present in L. lactis. TrePP KO can be performed by gene deletion, as was done here or
   by the establishment of a stop codon or frame shift mutation or a promoter mutation or
   the identification of a spontaneous non-functional trePP mutant. Trehalose accumulation
20 is possible when otsB is present as such (sAGX0139) or combined with trePP KO
   (sAGX0148) or even further combined with an insertion of the strong constitutive
   promoter PhIIA positioned in front of both phosphotransferase system (PTS) genes
   (PhIIA>>trePTC) of the L. lactis trehalose operon (sAGX0167). The preferred position of
   otsB, as it is used here, is as a second cistron behind the indigenous usp45 gene in a
25 configuration as described European patent applications with application numbers
   11168495.7 and 11173588.2 (usp45>>rpmD>>otsB, wherein rpmD is the intergenic
   region preceding rpmD).
   EXAMPLE 2: The accumulation of exogenous trehalose provides protection towards bile
30 lysis
   Experimental
   Strains were grown overnight in 50 ml GM17T or GM17T+500mM trehalose at 300C,
35 cells were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 25 ml 0.9% NaCl. Samples
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 55
   were taken and CFU were determined by plating appropriate dilutions (initial) At TO, 25
   ml 1% oxgal in 0.9% NaCl was added and cell suspensions were incubated for 8h at
   370C. Samples were taken at TO, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8h. CFU were determined by plating
   appropriate dilutions (Figure 2 A), trehalose content was determined (Figure 2 B)
 5 essentially as described in Example 1
   Results
   Intracellular trehalose protects against bile lysis and the loss of intracellular trehalose
10 coincides with decreased resistance to bile lysis. Therefore, leakage of trehalose is
   problematic for long term stability in bile.
   Indicated in Figure 2 is that the accumulation of exogenous trehalose in L. lactis cells
   provides protection towards bile lysis. Release of intracellular trehalose limits the
15 protective effect of trehalose in time. L. lactis cells that have accumulated trehalose
   (sAGX0167 + trehalose, sAGX0309 + trehalose and sAGX0319+ trehalose) i.e. grown
   in 500 mM trehalose as described in (Figure 2 B) show a substantial protection in time
   against bile lysis, proportional to the concentration of intracellular trehalose when
   compared to L. lactis cells without intracellular trehalose (sAGX0167, precultured without
20 trehalose). Decreasing survival in 0.5% oxgal (Figure 2 A) coincides with release of
   intracellular trehalose (Figure 2 B).
   EXAMPLE 3: The accumulation of exogenous trehalose in provides protection towards
   bile lysis
25
   Experimental
   Cells were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 1xM9 salts solution. Samples
   were taken and trehalose concentrations were determined at TO, 1, 2 and 4 hours,
30 essentially as described in Example 1. Data are exemplary for all ptcC wt strains.
   Results
   Following accumulation, Trehalose to some extent leaks from cells through an up to now
35 unidentified or unanticipated trehalose exit port and can be recovered in the supernatant.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                56
   Figure 3 A indicates that trehalose can be accumulated intracellular by de-novo synthesis
   as well as following uptake from the growth medium (sAGX0167 grown in 500mM
   trehalose, as described in Figure 1). Both de-novo synthesized as well as exogenously
 5 accumulated trehalose are released from the cells. Figure 3 B indicates that loss of
   intracellular trehalose results in increase of trehalose present in the culture supernatant
   (here expressed as mg trehalose/1 0 ml culture to allow comparison between intracellular
   and extracellular trehalose concentration).
10 EXAMPLE 4: Trehalose accumulation and release in various strains described in Table
   2
   Experimental
15 Strains described in Table 2 were grown in GM17 supplemented with 100 mM (Figure 4
   A) or 500 mM (Figure 4 B) trehalose. Cells were collected and resuspended in M9 buffer
   (Difco). Intracellular trehalose content was determined at TO, 2, 4 and 8h, essentially as
   described in Example 1. Except for sAGX0248 (ptcC KO) all strain show a similar release
   of trehalose as described in Figure 3.
20
   Results
   20 L. lactis MG1363 oligosacharide transporters were selected from COG database
   (section Carbohydrate transport and metabolism) and their genes were disrupted by
25 oligonucleotide directed recombineering in a trePP KO background (sAGX0272; required
   for trehalose accumulation) (Table 2; Figure 4). Only the disruption of ptcC circumvents
   the release of trehalose.
   One cannot predict which of the genes listed in Table 2 is involved in trehalose release.
30 Disruption of either one of the PTS transporter genes present in the trehalose operon
   (Ilmg_0453; Ilmg_0454) has no effect on trehalose uptake or release. Disruption of the
   ptcC gene (encoding cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component) resolves leakage
   of accumulated trehalose, therefore the PtcC is the trehalose exit port and this protein
   causes leakage of trehalose. Disruption of celB (cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                 57
   component) has no effect on trehalose uptake or release. Disruption of ptcC in trePP KO
   background prevents all release of trehalose.
   EXAMPLE 5: Trehalose accumulation and release in various strains described in Table
 5 2
   Experimental
   Strains were grown overnight in GM17T + 500 mM trehalose at 300C, cells were collected
10 by centrifugation and resuspended in an equal volume 1 x M9 (Figure 5 A) or 0.5% Oxgal
   in 0.9% NaCl (Figure 5 B) and incubated for 24h at 370C. Samples were taken at TO, 1,
   2, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 24h. Intracellular trehalose content was determined as described in
   Example 1.
15 Results
   Combined ptcC KO (stop codon insertion as well as gene deletion) and PhIIA>>trePTC
   (constitutive high expression of trehalose transporter) allows for high trehalose import
   and full intracellular retention.
20
   Figure 5 indicates that inactivation of ptcC prevents (in M9 salts, panel A) or delays (in
   0,5% oxgal, panel B) the release of intracellular trehalose. Presence of the strong
   constitutive PhIlA promoter (as disclosed in WO 2008/084115, which incorporated herin
   in its entirety by reference) in front of both PTS genes of the L. lactis trehalose operon
25 restores the capacity to accumulate exogenous trehalose to that of a reference strain
   (see also Figure 4).
   EXAMPLE 6: The accumulation of exogenous trehalose provides protection towards bile
   lysis.
30
   Experimental
   Strains were grown overnight in GM17T + 500 mM trehalose at 30'C, cells were collected
   by centrifugation and resuspended in half a volume 0.9% NaCl. Samples were taken and
35 CFU were determined by plating appropriate dilutions (initial). At TO, half a volume 1%
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                58
   oxgal in 0.9% NaCl was added and incubated for 8h at 370C. Samples were taken at TO,
   1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 24 hours. Trehalose content was determined (Figure 6 A, essentially
   as in Example 1) and CFU were determined by plating (0-8 hours only) appropriate
   dilutions and plotted as % of initial TO values (Figure 6 B).
 5
   Results
   The enhanced capacity to retain intracellular trehalose leads to improved bile resistance.
10 Figure 6 indicates that the accumulation of exogenous trehalose in L. lactis cells provides
   protection towards bile lysis. Release of intracellular trehalose (A) coincides with
   decreasing survival in 0.5% oxgal (B). Inactivation of ptcC extends the presence in time
   of intracellular trehalose and consequently also improves resistance in time towards
   oxgal.
15
   EXAMPLE 7: TrePP KO strains are capable of converting glucose or maltose to
   intracellular trehalose. Maltose stimulates trehalose uptake by trePP KO strains.
   Experimental
20
   Strains were grown overnight in the indicated media. Trehalose was determined
   essentially as described in Example 1.
   Results
25
   TrePP KO strains have acquired the capacity to utilize carbon sources such as glucose
   or maltose to accumulate trehalose. This is not described in the prior art as trehalose
   can accumulate inside the cells in MM17T i.e. with maltose as the single carbon source.
30 Figure 7 indicates that TrePP KO strains (both ptcC wt as well as ptcC KO) are capable
   of converting glucose or maltose to intracellular trehalose (columns 1 and 2, columns 5
   - 8). Maltose enhances the uptake and accumulation of extracellular trehalose from the
   growth medium in trePP KO strains (columns 9 and 10).
35 TrePP KO strains accumulate trehalose when grown:
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                  59
   1.           With glucose as a carbon source (GM17T; columns 1 and 2)
   2.           With glucose as a carbon source and extracellular trehalose (GM17T + 500 mM
                trehalose; columns 3 and 4)
   3.           With maltose as a carbon source (MM17T; columns 5 and 6)
 5 4.           With glucose and maltose as a carbon source (GM M17T; columns 7 and 8)
   5.           With maltose as a carbon source and extracellular trehalose (MM17T + 500 mM
                trehalose; columns 9 and 10)
   EXAMPLE 8: Survival after lyophylization
10
   Experimental
   Table 3 A: Growth optimized 200L culture (animal protein free fermentation medium) was
   10 fold concentrated through ultrafiltration and diafiltration and re-suspension in
15 concentrated cryoprotectant mix (as described in WO 2010/124855). CFU count per ml
   was determined for the bacterial suspension. The suspension was filled out in bulk and
   analytical trays, trays were weighed and lyophilized. For viability assessment, lyophilized
   appropriate weight portions were reconstituted with appropriate volumes of purified water
   and CFU count per ml was determined. Viability % was determined from the ratio of CFU
20 before and after lyophilization.
   Table 3 B: Overnight 20L culture (GM17T + 500mM trehalose) was 100 fold concentrated
   by centrifugation and re-suspension in concentrated cryoprotectant mix (as described in
   WO 2010/124855). CFU count per ml was determined for the bacterial suspension. The
25 suspension was lyophilized in bulk and in vials (2.5 ml fill volume). For viability
   assessment, lyophilized 2.5 ml vials were reconstituted with 2.5 ml purified water and
   CFU count per ml was determined. Viability % was determined from the ratio of CFU
   before and after lyophilization. 2 independent production batches (sAGX0167 and
   sAGX0309) yield >100% survival after lyophilization.
30
   Both (A) and (B) lyophilized powders were further formulated with suitable excipients to
   standardize CFU/g. sAGX0037, sAGX0167 and sAGX0309 were filled in HPMC
   capsules to a minimum of 1.2 x 1O11CFU/capsule. Capsules were banded with a cellulose
   film and coated with methacrylic acid - ethylacrylate co-polymers as an enteric coating
35 film, for targeted delivery to the small intestine and colon.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                       60
   Trehalose was determined essentially as described in Example 1.
   Results
 5
   As indicated in Table 3, strains that can accumulate trehalose show greatly enhanced
   resistance to drying stress as experienced during freeze-drying.
   Table 3
       Strain                           CFU/ml      CFU/ml       Trehalose content survival
                                        formulated  freeze-dried
                                        biomass     cake
       sAGX0037            exp.     1   1,60 x 1011 1,26 x 1011  n/a                         79%
       sAGX0037            exp.    2    1,50 x 1011 1,47 x 1011  n/a                         98%
       sAGX0037            exp.    3  A 1'40 x 1011 1,02 x 1011  n/a                         73%
       sAGX0037            exp.    4    1,50 x 1011 1,26 x 1011  n/a                         84%
       sAGX0085            exp.     1   2,00 x 1011 1,40 x 1011  n/a                         70%
       sAGX0085            exp.    2    1,60 x 1011 1,42 x 1011  n/a                         89%
       sAGXO167 exp. 1                  1'14 x 1011 1,21 x 1011  16,29 mg/g ww              106%
       sAGX0309 exp. 1                  1,21 x 1011 1,45 x 1011  16,72 mg/g ww              120%
10
   EXAMPLE 9: Survival during intestinal passage through porcine intestine
   Experimental
15
   Sows (>150kg) were surgically equipped with cannulae at the proximal duodenum and
   proximal colon. In the duodenal cannula, encapsulated, freeze-dried sAGX0037 and
   sAGX0167 were inserted. Colonic content was sampled from the colon cannula at 0, 2,
   4, 6, 8 and 10 hours post administration. Viability %was determined as the ratio between
20 live (CFU count) and total (live and dead; Q-PCR analysis) L.lactis in the samples.
   Numbers are given in Table 4.
   Results
25 Strains that can accumulate trehalose show greatly enhanced survival, independent of
   the feeding or fasting status, in a large intestinal system (pig).
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                      61
   Table 4 and Figure 8 indicate that when compared to freeze dried and encapsulated
   sAGX0037 (Table 4 A), freeze dried and encapsulated sAGX0167 (pregrown for
   intracellular trehalose accumulation; Table 4 B) show enhance survival during intestinal
   passage through porcine intestine, both when pigs were fasted for 24 hours (Figure 8 A)
 5 as well as during ad libitum food availability (Figure 8 B).
   Table 4
                                      Time-point sAGX0037   sAGXO167          p-value
       Fasted                         TO         -
                                      T2         8,5%       45,1%             0,033
                                      T4         3,0%       30,9%             0,001
                                      T6         4,5%       24,8%             0,044
                                      T8         1,9%       10,7%             0,176
                                      T10        0,0%       13,2%
       Fed                            TO         -
                                      T2
                                      T4         0,0%       89%               0,001
                                      T6         0,0%       66%               0,173
                                      T8         0,0%       25%               0,203
10 EXAMPLE 10: Trehalose can be accumulated after production of biomass.
   Experimental
   Indicated strains were grown overnight in GM17T (16 hrs at 300C) and were collected by
15 centrifugation (15 min at 4000 rpm). Bacterial pellets were resuspended in fresh GM17T
   + 500 mM trehalose and incubated. Intracellular trehalose content was determined at
   T=0, 1, 2 and 4 hours as described in Example 1.
   Results
20
   As indicated in Figure 9, trehalose can be accumulated after biomass production, when
   the bacteria are incubated over time. As indicated in figure 9B, this can be achieved only
   in trePP KO strains (sAGX0090 vs other) and does not require further gene insertion or
   deletion (sAGX0169). The additional presence of otsB (sAGX0167, sAGX0346,
25 sAGX0354, sAGX0360) stimulates trehalose accumulation.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                          62
   EXAMPLE 11: Maltose can stimulate the accumulation of intracellular trehalose
   Experimental
 5 Indicated strains were grown overnight (ON; 16 hrs at 300C) in GM17T, +/- 500mM
   trehalose, GM17T + 0,5% maltose (GMM17T) + 500mM trehalose or M17T + 0,5%
   maltose (MM17T) + 500mM trehalose and were collected by centrifugation (15 min at
   4000 rpm). Intracellular trehalose content was determined as described in Example 1.
10 Results
   As indicated in Figure 10, maltose stimulates the accumulation of intracellular trehalose
   in over night grown cultures.
15 EXAMPLE 12: Maltose can be converted to intracellular trehalose during or after
   production of biomass
   Experimental
20 Indicated strains were grown overnight (ON, 16 hrs at 300C) in GM17T, cells were
   collected by centrifugation (15 min at 4000 rpm), resuspended in M17T + 0,5% maltose
   (MM17T and incubated for 8hours (> 8h MM17T). Alternatively, indicated strains were
   grown ON in MM17T. Intracellular trehalose content was determined as described in
   Example 1.
25
   Results
   As indicated in Figure 11, maltose can be converted to intracellular trehalose during or
   after production of biomass.
30
   ABBREVIATIONS
       ADP                   adenosine-5'diphosphate
       anti-TNF              Antibody recognizing tumor necrosis factor
       ATP                   adenosine-5'triphoshate
       celB                  cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                       63
    CFU                   Colony forming unit
    COGs                  Clusters of Orthologous Groups of proteins
    eno                   enolase (phosphopyruvate hydratase) gene (Gene ID: 4797432)
    gapB                  glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (Gene ID: 4797877)
    Gene ID               Gene identifier
    GM17                  Oxoid M17 + glucose at 0,5 %
    GM17T                 Oxoid M17 + glucose at 0,5 % + thymidine at 0,2 mM
    GMM17T                Oxoid M17 + glucose at 0,5 % + maltose at 0,5 % + thymidine at 0,2 mM
    hIL-10                Human interleukin-10
    HPMC                  Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose
    hTFF-1                Human trefoil factor-1
    KO                    Knock-out; gene deletion, gene replacement, gene disruption
    M                     maltose at 0,5 %
    M17                   Oxoid M17
    M9                    M9 salts (Difco)
    MM17                  Oxoid M17 + maltose at 0,5 %
    MM17T                 Oxoid M17 + maltose at 0,5 % + thymidine at 0,2 mM
    n/a                   not applicable
    NADP*                 nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate
    NADPH                 reduced nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate
    ODx                   Optical density at x nm wavelength
    otsA                  Escherichia coli osmoregulatory trehalose synthesis A; trehalose-6
                          phosphate synthase
    otsB                  Escherichia coli osmoregulatory trehalose synthesis B; trehalose-6
                          phosphate phosphatase
    otsBA                 Coupled expression unit for otsB and otsA
    pgmB                  p-phosphoglucomutase (Gene ID: 4797271)
    PhIlA                 Promoter of the HU-like DNA-binding protein gene (Gene ID: 4797353)
    ptcC                  cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component
    Ptre                  trehalose operon promoter
    PTS                   phosphotransferase system
    rpmD                  Intergenic region preceding the 50 S ribosomal protein L30 gene
    T                     thymidine at 0,2 mM
    thyA                  Thymidylate synthase gene (Gene ID: 4798358)
    TNF                   Tumor necrosis factor
    trePP                 trehalose-6-phosphate phosphorylase (Gene ID: 4797140)
    trePTC                Putative phosphotransferase genes in the L. lactis trehalose operon
                          (Ilmg_0453 and Ilmg_0454; Gene ID: 4797778 and Gene ID: 4797093
                          respectively)
    TX                    Time point X hours
    uidA                  Escherichia coli beta-D-glucuron idase gene
    usp45                 unidentified secreted 45-kDa protein gene (Gene ID: 4797218)
    wt                    wild type
    ww                    wet cell pellet weight
9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               64
   CLAIMS
   1. A non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium lacking cellobiose-specific PTS system 11C
   component (PtcC) activity, preferably wherein the gene encoding endogenous PtcC has
 5 been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of
   producing functional ptcC gene product.
   2. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to claim 1, wherein the PtcC
   gene or protein has nucleic acid or amino acid sequence which is at least 75% identical
10 to SEQ ID NO: 7 or 8, respectively.
   3. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to claim 1 or 2, lacking
   trehalose 6-phosphate phosphorylase (TrePP) activity, preferably wherein the gene
   encoding endogenous TrePP has been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or
15 inactivated such as being incapable of producing functional TrePP gene product.
   4. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 3,
   overexpressing one or more genes encoding a trehalose transporter, preferably an
   endogenous trehalose transporter.
20
   5. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 4,
   containing functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase.
   6. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to claim 5, wherein said
25 trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase is otsB, preferably otsB from E. coli.
   7. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 6,
   containing one or more heterologous gene product, preferably one or more prophylactic
   and/or therapeutic gene product.
30
   8. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein
   the gram positive bacterium is dried, spray-dried, frozen or freeze-dried.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                                   65
   9. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein
   said bacterium is a lactic acid bacterium (LAB), preferably a Lactococcus sp. or a
   Lactobacillus sp.
 5 10. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 8,
   wherein said bacterium is a Bifidobacterium sp.
   11. The non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of claims 1 to 10, for
   use as a medicament.
10
   12. A medicament, a food additive, a probiotic composition, or a starter culture
   comprising the non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any one of claims
   1 to 10.
15 13. The starter culture according to claim 12, preferably wherein the starter culture is a
   starter culture for the preparation of a food product.
   14. A method for preparing a medicament or for preparing a food additive or for preparing
   a starter culture or for preparing a probiotic composition, comprising the steps of:
20              i) propagating the non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium according to any of
                claims 1 to 10 in a medium comprising a substrate material capable of being
                fermented by said gram positive bacterium, and
                ii) formulating the so propagated non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium into,
                respectively, the medicament or food additive or starter culture or a probiotic
25              composition.
   15. A method for internally accumulating trehalose in a gram positive bacterium lacking
   cellobiose-specific PTS system IIC component (PtcC) activity, preferably wherein the
   gene encoding endogenous PtcC has been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or
30 inactivated such as being incapable of producing functional ptcC gene product,
   comprising propagating the gram positive bacterium in a medium comprising a substrate
   material capable of being fermented by said gram positive bacterium.
   16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the bacterium is a non-pathogenic gram
35 positive bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium.
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                               66
   17. The method according to claim 14 to 16, wherein the culture medium comprises
   maltose or glucose or a combination of maltose and glucose, as a carbon source,
   preferably as main or sole carbon source.
 5
   18. The method according to any of claims 14 to 17, wherein the culture medium
   substantially does not contain externally added trehalose.
   19. A method for improving stress resistance or storage characteristics of a gram positive
10 bacterium, preferably a lactic acid bacterium (LAB) or Bifidobacterium, preferably one or
   more stress resistance or storage characteristics selected from the group comprising
   resistance to acid conditions, resistance to bile salts, resistance to drying, freezing or
   freeze-drying, and osmotic resistance, comprising modifying the gram positive bacterium
   such as to lack PtcC activity, preferably wherein the gene encoding endogenous PtcC
15 has been partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being
   incapable of producing functional ptcC gene product.
   20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the bacterium is a non-pathogenic gram
   positive bacterium.
20
   21. The method according to claim 19 or 20, wherein the gram positive bacterium lacks
   TrePP activity, preferably wherein the gene encoding endogenous TrePP has been
   partially or completely deleted, disrupted or inactivated such as being incapable of
   producing functional TrePP gene product.
25
   22. The method according to claim 19 to 21, wherein the gram positive bacterium
   overexpresses one or more genes encoding a trehalose transporter, preferably an
   endogenous trehalose transporter.
30 23. The method according to any of claims 19 to 22, wherein the gram positive bacterium
   contains functional heterologous trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase.
   24. The method according to claim 23, wherein said trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase
   is otsB, preferably otsB from E. coli.
35
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

                                              67
   25. The method according to any of claims 19 to 24, wherein the gram positive bacterium
   expresses one or more heterologous gene product, preferably one or more prophylactic
   and/or therapeutic gene product or antigen.
 5 26. The method according to any of claims 14 to 25, further comprising freezing or freeze
   drying the gram positive bacterium, medicament, food additive, or starter culture.
   27. A method for preparing a food product, comprising admixing the food additive or
   starter culture according to claim 12 or 13 with a substrate material that is capable of
10 being fermented by the non-pathogenic gram positive bacterium, optionally further
   comprising the step of fermenting said substrate material.
   28. A food product obtainable by the method according to claim 27.
15
   9736227_1 (GHMatters) P100449.AU.1

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
!
    !

<removed-date>    "
               "                                                                       $#   &
               "
                                                                                       $#   &)   *       ( %+
                                                                                       $#   &)   *       ( %+
<removed-apn>
               "
                                                                                       $#   &)   *       ( %+
              ! "
               "
               "
               "
               "
                        #$ $ %   &' (   &' (   &' (   &' (       &' (       &'!(
                                                                        !    "
                                                                                                     )    ( %+
                                                                                                     )    ( %+
                                                                                                     )    ( %+
                    (                    (                   (                     (

                                                #
<removed-date>
                                    !   " $
                                                                             , -#+.+ /# ( $
<removed-apn>
                                                                             01 2
              (   (            (    (       (       !(       (   (
                      !       " $                                        %&'        ()
                      !
              !
                                                                                         3 %%
                                                                                         401 #   #
                               !
                                                                     !
                          (             (                (               (

                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  !
                             (
         (    !
                                  !
                                  !
                             (
         (    !                                              *
                                  !
*
                  * & ( %+
                                  !
& ( %+
                             (
         (    !
                                  !
                                  !
                             !(
         !(   !
                                  !

<removed-date>
                                               &+ ) ,    +
                                   !   "         +- #)./
<removed-apn>
              56   (   (       (           (      (     !(      (   (
                                               &+ ) ,      +
                           !       "                     #)./
              56   (   (       (           (      (     !(      (   (

                                                           (
<removed-date>
                                                               &+ ) ,      +
                                            !       "                    #)./
<removed-apn>
                    56          (     (         (          (       (    !(      (          (
                                           $ %&'         ()0 %&' #*(0 %&' #*)        %&' # *
                                     $               1                $
               "
              ! "
               "
               "
               "
               "
              ! "
               "
               "
               "
               "
                         &' (       &' (            &' (        &' (     &' (       &'!(

                                     )
<removed-date>
                  2                           $ %&'   ()   %&' #*(
                          $    1         $$
                                                                            !
<removed-apn>
              !
                                                       !
                      &       &)              &            &         &)
                          *   ( %+                             *     ( %+

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3
!

                               -
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              (       (              (                  (
                  !
                          56       & 7 !(      &)   *
                                        ( %+

<removed-date>
              44
<removed-apn>
                   !
                       56   &   56      &)    56       &)    56      &)
                                 *   & ( %+     *   & ( %+    *   & ( %+

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
56
&
56
& 7 !(
&
56
&

                                                                 eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                                                      SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>     Ac t ogeni x N. V.
              <120>     Modi f i ed gr am pos i t i v e bac t er i a and us es t her eof
              <130>     AGX- 032- PCT
              <150>     11182643. 4
              <151>     2011- 09- 23
              <160>     13
<removed-apn>
              <170>     Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 3
              <210>     1
              <211>     2310
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lac t oc oc c us l ac t i s
              <400> 1
              at gac t gat a aagat t ggat gat c c aat at gac aaac aag aagt agggaa gc gt t c t t at                60
              gggc aagaat c t t t aat gt c at t gggaaat ggt t at t t ag ggc t t c gt gg ggc gc c t t t g         120
              t gggc aac t t gt t c ggat aa t c at t at c c g ggac t c t at g t c gc aggggt c t t t aat c ac     180
              ac aagt ac ag aagt t gc agg t c at gat gt t at c aac gaag at at ggt c aa t t ggc c aaat            240
              c c ac aat t ga t t aaggt t t a t at t gat aat gaat t ggt t g ac t t c gaggc agc aat t gag         300
              aaaaat t c t t c gat t gat t t c aaaaat gga t t gc aaat t g agagc t at aa t gt c agt t t a         360
              gc c aagggag gt t t gac t t t agt gac c ac a aaat t t gt t g at c c c at c c a t t t t c ac gat    420
              t t t gggt t c g t t ggagaaat c at c gc t gat t t t t c t ggaa aat t gc gaat agaaac t t t t        480
              at t gat ggt t c ggt at t gaa t c aaaat gt t gaac gc t at c gggc t t t t ga c agc aaagaa           540
              t t t gaagt ga c t c aaat t gc t gat ggac t t t t ggt ggc aa aaac t agaac gac ggac at a            600
              gaat t agc ag t t gc gac t aa aac t t at t t a aat ggt c agc c at t gaaaaa agt agaat c t           660
              ggaaat t c t g aaat t t t t aa agaat c c at t gaagt t gat t t ac t aaaaaa c c aagaagt t            720
              c agt t t gaaa aat c gat t gt t at t gc t agt t c t t at gaaa c c aaaaac c c t gt t gaat t t       780
              gt gc t gac ag aac t ggc agc aac t t c t gt c agt aaaat t c aggaaaat aa t gc aaat t at             840
              t gggagaaag t at ggc agga t ggc gat at t gt c at c gaat c t gat c at gc ggat t t gc aa             900
              agaat ggt gc gaat gaat at t t t c c at at t c gc c aagc gg c ac aac ac gg t gc t aat c ag          960
              t t t t t agat g c gt c c gt agg t t c gc gt gga t t gac t ggt g aaggt t at c g aggac at at t     1020
              t t c t gggat g aaat t t t t gt t c t ac c t t at t at gc ggc ga at gaac c aga aac agc gc gt      1080
              gat t t gc t t t t gt ac c gaat c aat c gat t g ac t gc t gc ac aggaaaat gc aaaggt t gat          1140
              ggagaaat ag gggc aat gt t t c c t t ggc aa t c c ggc t t aa t t ggggat ga ac aggc ac aa           1200
              t t t gt t c at t t gaat ac agt aaat aat gaa t gggaac c ag at aat agt c g c c gt c aaaga          1260
              c at gt c agc t t agc t at t gt t t ac aat c t g t ggat t t ac t t ac agc t gac agat gat gaa      1320
              agt at t t t ga c t gac ggt gg ac t ggat t t g c t c gt t gaaa c c ac gaagt t t t ggt t aaac      1380
              aaagc agaat t gggaagt ga t agc c gc t at c at at c gc t g gt gt c at ggg t c c t gat gaa          1440
                                                             Page 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
