   ABSTRACT:
   A transportation assembly for use in transporting modules of compressible product has an
   elongate rectangular deck on which to place modules, front and rear end barriers at
 5 respective ends of the deck, and a roof section that is supported by the end barriers and
   is movable between an elevated position, and a lowered position. Primary actuators are
   configured to move the roof section relative to the deck between the elevated and lowered
   positions. When the roof section is in the elevated position, two layers of modules can be
   loaded on the deck. The primary actuators are operable to move the roof section towards
10 the lowered position so as to compress the modules.
   P1nl1A All 9                                                                    ilAI91A

                                                - 1
       A transportation assembly for use in transporting of a compressible product
   Field of the invention
           The present invention relates to a transportation assembly for use in transporting
 5 a compressible product.
   Cross-reference to Related Applications
           This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
10 No. 2015200589, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
   Background
            Cotton is often picked and collated into modules for transportation to a cotton gin.
15 Combine harvesters for cotton picking are capable of harvesting (or picking) cotton, and
   then accumulating the picked cotton into modules (also known as "bales"), which when
   cylindrical are referred to as round modules, or round bales. The finished module is
   wrapped with a polyethylene plastic film to protect the cotton from the elements.
   Typically, round cotton modules are built to a diameter of approximately 2.3 m.
20
            Once harvested and built, the modules are transported to a cotton gin for further
   processing. It is common to load round modules onto a flat-bed semi-trailer for transport
   to the gin. Australian vehicle standards regulations place restrictions on the dimensions of
   semi-trailers and their loads. Due to the height and length restrictions, it is not possible to
25 carry more than a single layer of round bales, and that layer can have up to six bales.
   By further adding either a dog-trailer, or a dolly and second flat-bed semi-trailer, it is
   possible to haul 12 bales by a single prime mover (tractor).
           Australian road regulations restrict Class 1 vehicles to a maximum height of 4.3 m.
30 With permits and on designated routes, Class 2 vehicles can be up to 4.6 m in height.
   P10014.AU.2                                                                        30104/2018

                                                    -2
            It is evident that the height restrictions impose significant constraints on the number
   of cotton modules that can be transported on a flat-bed semi-trailer in a single haul, and
   thus there are high costs associated with transportation from the farm to the gin.
 5          There is a need to address the above, and/or at least provide a useful alternative.
   Summary of the invention
            The present invention provides a transportation assembly for use in transporting
10 modules of compressible product, the assembly comprising:
            an elongate rectangular deck on which to place modules;
            front and rear end barriers at respective ends of the deck;
            a roof section that is supported by the end barriers, and is movable between an
   elevated position, and a lowered position; and
15          primary actuators that are configured to move the roof section relative to the deck
   between the elevated and lowered positions,
            whereby, when the roof section is in the elevated position, two layers of modules
   can be loaded on the deck; and the primary actuators are operable to move the roof
   section towards the lowered position so as to compress the modules.
20
            Alternatively or additionally, the present invention provides a transportation
   comprising:
            an elongate rectangular deck on which to place compressible modules of a
   compressible product, the modules having a predetermined size in an uncompressed
25 state;
            front and rear end barriers at respective ends of the deck;
            a roof section that is supported by the end barriers, and is movable between an
   elevated position, and a lowered position; and
            primary actuators that each extend between the roof section and a respective one
30 of the front and rear end barriers, the primary actuators being configured to move the roof
   section relative to the deck between the elevated and lowered positions,
   P10014.AU.2                                                                          30104/2018

                                                -3
           whereby, when the roof section is in the elevated position, a set consisting of two
   layers of modules can be loaded on the deck; and the primary actuators are operable to
   move the roof section towards the lowered position thereby compressing and reducing the
   height of the set of modules.
 5
           In certain embodiments, the assembly further comprises at least one load transfer
   assembly that is disposed between the end barriers, the load transfer assembly having
   one or more ties that are securable to extend between the roof section and the deck, and
   one or more secondary actuators that are operable to apply a tensile load to the ties.
10
           Preferably, wherein the secondary actuators are disposed within the roof section,
   and the ties have a lower end that is releasably securable to the deck, and an upper end
   that is secured or is securable to the secondary actuators. In certain embodiments, the
   ties are securable to the deck when the roof section is in the lowered position.
15
           More preferably, the load transfer assembly has two ties that, in use, each extend
   between the deck and the roof section on a respective side of the transportation assembly.
   Even more preferably, the load transfer assembly has a secondary actuator for each tie.
20         The secondary actuators can be linear actuators that each act in a direction that is
   oblique to a vertical direction. Preferably, the load transfer assembly has rollers that are
   each supported on a lateral edge of the roof section, and each respective tie extends from
   the respective secondary actuator over one of the rollers such that the lower end is
   beneath the roller for securing to the deck.
25
           Each primary actuator can extend between the roof section, and one of the front
   and rear end barriers.
           In certain embodiments, the roof section has two parallel side beams; front and
30 rear end beams that extend between side beams; and one or more panels that each
   extend between the side beams, whereby the panels are arranged bear on the modules
   in an upper of the two layers when the roof section is in the lowered position.
   P10014.AU.2                                                                     30104/2018

                                                 -4
            Preferably, the roof section has a plurality of panels that are arranged to each
   bears on one of the modules in the upper layer.
 5          In certain embodiments, the panels are attached to an upper edge of the side
   beams, such that when the roof section is in the lowered position a lower edge of each
   side beam is positioned to the side of the modules in the upper layer.
            The roof section can further include cross beams that extend between the side
10 beams intermediate the front and rear end beams.
            In at least some embodiments, the side beams, end beams, and cross beams each
   have a truss configuration. Preferably, each of the side beams, end beams, and cross
   beams are a planar truss. More preferably, each planar truss includes a top chord, a
15 bottom chord, and a plurality of web members that extend between the top and bottom
   chords. Preferably, the panels of the roof section are attached to the top chords of the side
   beams.
            Preferably, the roof section further includes downwardly depending legs, and each
20 end barrier has guides, wherein each guide receives a respective one of the legs and
   constrains the leg to move longitudinally. In certain embodiments, each guide is in the
   form of an upright tube member within which one of the legs is received.
            In certain embodiments, the primary and secondary actuators are hydraulic
   cylinders, and the transportation assembly further comprises a tank for storing hydraulic
25 fluid, a pump, and one or more fluid circuits that connects the tank, pump and primary and
   secondary actuators. In certain embodiments, the assembly also comprises a box within
   which the tank and pump are housed.
            In certain embodiments, the transportation assembly is in the form of a towable
30 vehicle. In one form, the vehicle is a semi-trailer, and the transportation assembly further
   comprises one or more bogey axles, and a kingpin for attaching to a fifth wheel coupling
   of a prime mover. Preferably, the semi-trailer is a drop bed trailer.
   P10014.AU.2                                                                     30104/2018

                                                -5
           In one alternative embodiment, the transportation assembly is releasably
   securable to a vehicle.
 5         The present invention also provides a method of transporting modules of
   compressible product, the method involving:
           providing a transportation assembly that has an elongate rectangular deck, front
   and rear end barriers at respective ends of the deck, a roof section that is supported by
   the end barriers, and is movable between an elevated position, and a lowered position,
10 and primary actuators that are configured to move the roof section relative to the deck
   between the elevated and lowered positions;
           with the roof section in the elevated position, loading two layers of modules onto
   the deck; and
           operating the primary actuators to move the roof section towards the lowered
15 position to compress the modules.
           Alternatively or additionally, the present invention also provides a method of
   transporting compressible modules of compressible product, the modules having a
   predetermined size in an uncompressed state, the method involving:
20         providing a transportation assembly that has an elongate rectangular deck, front
   and rear end barriers at respective ends of the deck, a roof section that is supported by
   the end barriers, and is movable between an elevated position, and a lowered position,
   and primary actuators that each extend between the roof section and a respective one of
   the front and rear end barriers and are configured to move the roof section relative to the
25 deck between the elevated and lowered positions;
           with the roof section in the elevated position, loading and arranging a set consisting
   of two layers of modules onto the deck;
           operating the primary actuators to move the roof section towards the lowered
   position thereby compressing and reducing the height of the set of modules.
30
   P10014.AU.2                                                                       30104/2018

                                                 -6
   Brief description of the drawings
            In order that the invention may be more easily understood, an embodiment will
   now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings,
   in which:
 5
            Figure 1:     is a perspective view of a cotton transport trailer according to a first
                          embodiment of the present invention, showing the roof section in a
                          lowered position;
            Figure 2:     is an enlarged view of the front portion of the cotton transport trailer
10                        of Figure 1;
            Figure 3:   is a perspective view of the cotton transport trailer of Figure 1, loaded
                        with nine cotton modules;
            Figure 4:   is a side elevation of the cotton transport trailer of Figure 3, showing
                        the roof section in an elevated position;
15          Figure 5:   is a side elevation of the cotton transport trailer of Figure 3, showing
                        the roof section in the lowered position;
            Figure 6:   is a rear view of the cotton transport trailer of Figure 1;
            Figure 7:   is a top view of the cotton transport trailer of Figure 1;
            Figure 8:   is an enlarged view of region B in Figure 5;
20          Figure 9:   is an enlarged view of region A in Figure 1;
            Figure 10: is a perspective view of a cotton transport trailer according to a second
                        embodiment of the present invention, showing the roof section in a
                        lowered position; and
            Figure 11: is a perspective view of the cotton transport trailer of Figure 10, loaded
25                      with ten cotton modules.
   Detailed description
            Figures 1 to 9 show a transportation assembly in accordance with a first
30 embodiment of the present invention. In this particular embodiment, the transportation
   assembly is in the form of a semi-trailer 10, which is towable by a prime mover. The semi
   trailer 10 is to be used in transporting modules of compressible product, such as round
   modules M (also known as "bales") of cotton.
   P10014.AU.2                                                                        30104/2018

                                                 -7
           The semi-trailer 10 has an elongate rectangular deck 12 on which the modules M
   are to be placed for transport, as illustrated in Figures 2 and 4. The semi-trailer 10 further
   has front end barrier 14, and a rear end barrier 16 that are each at respective ends of the
 5 deck 12. A roof section 18 is supported by the end barriers 14, 16.
           In this embodiment, four primary actuators 20 are provided. Two of the primary
   actuators 20 extend between the roof section 18 and the front end barrier 14, and the
   other two primary actuators 20 extend between the roof section 18 and the rear end barrier
10 16. The primary actuators are configured to move the roof section 18 between an elevated
   position, and a lowered position. Figure 4 shows the roof section 18 in the elevated
   position, and Figures 1 to 3, 5 and 6 show the roof section 18 in the lowered position.
           When the roof section 18 is in the elevated position, modules M can be loaded on
15 the deck 12. In particular, a first layer of modules M can be loaded directly onto the deck
   surface, and a second layer of modules M can then be loaded onto the first layer. In this
   embodiment, up to five modules M can form the first layer of modules, and then up to four
   modules M can form the second layer of modules. Thus, the maximum capacity of the
   semi-trailer 10 is nine modules.
20
           The primary actuators 20 are operable to move the roof section 18 towards the
   lowered position, which bears down on and compresses the modules M. This enables the
   overall height of the semi-trailer 10 to be brought within the height restrictions of Class 2
   vehicles, as defined in Australian road regulations.
25
           The semi-trailer 10 further has a load transfer assembly 22 that is disposed mid
   way between the end barriers 14, 16. The load transfer assembly 22 has two ties 24 that
   are securable to extend between the roof section 18 and the deck 12. Each ties 24 extends
   to a respective side of the deck 12 and roof section 18.
30
           Two secondary actuators 26 are operable to apply a tensile load to the ties 24,
   which transfers loads from the roof section 18 to the deck 12. This has the advantage of
   P10014.AU.2                                                                       30104/2018

                                               -8
   minimizing bowing of the roof section 18 between the end barriers 14, 16. Each secondary
   actuator 26 is secured to an upper end of one of the tie 24. In this particular embodiment,
   the lower end of each tie 24 is releasably securable to the deck 12 when the roof section
   18 is in the lower position. As will be appreciated, the ties 24 can be released from the
 5 deck 12 prior to raising the roof section 18. When the roof section 18 is in the elevated
   position, the ties 24 can be moved so as to not inhibit loading/unloading of the
   modules M.
            In this particular embodiment, the secondary actuators 26 are disposed in the roof
10 section 18. In this embodiment, the secondary actuators 26 are linear actuators. As will
   be evident from Figures 1 and 9, each secondary actuator 26 acts in a direction that is
   oblique to a vertical direction (with respect to the deck 12). As shown most clearly in
   Figure 9, the load transfer assembly 22 has two rollers 28 that are mounted on opposing
   lateral edges of the roof section 18. Each tie 24 extends from its secondary actuator 26
15 over the roller 28. Thus, each tie 24 can hang beneath the roller 28 for securing to the
   deck 12.
           When the roof section 18 is in the lowered position and the lower end of the ties
   24 are secured to the deck 12, the secondary actuators 26 can be retracted to generate
20 tensile loads in the ties 24, which transfers loads from the roof section 18 to the deck 12,
   as previously described. Conversely, the secondary actuators 26 can be extended to
   release tensile loads in the ties 24.
           The roof section 18 has two parallel side beams 30, and front and rear end beams
25 32 that extend between side beams. Further, in this particular embodiment, the roof
   section 18 has panels 34 that each extend between the side beams 30. The panels 34 are
   arranged so as to bear on the modules M in an upper of the two layers when the roof
   section 18 is brought into the lowered position. In this embodiment, the roof section 18
   has four panels 34 to bear on each of the four modules M in the upper layer.
30
           As will be evident from Figures 1 to 3, and 5, the panels 34 are attached to an
   upper edge of the side beams 30. Thus, when the roof section 18 is in the lowered
   P10014.AU.2                                                                      30104/2018

                                                -9
   position, at least part of the side beams 30 are positioned to the sides of the modules M
   in the upper layer. This has the advantage of providing lateral support to the modules M
   in the upper layer, and this restrains the modules M in the upper layer during transport.
   Further, due to the compressive loads, the modules M in the lower layer are also restrained
 5 during transport. This minimizes the need to provide separate restraints to hold the
   modules M on the semi-trailer 10 during transport.
           The roof section 18 includes cross beams 36 that extend between the side beams
   30, and provide rigidity to the roof section 18. In this particular embodiment, the roof
10 section 18 has three cross beams 36. Further, one of the cross beams 36 is provided
   between the two secondary actuators 26.
           The side beams 30, end beams 32, and cross beams 36 are all of a planar truss
   configuration. Each beam 30, 32, 36 has top and bottom chords, and web members that
15 extend between the top and bottom chords to form a triangular bracing arrangement. The
   panels 34 are attached to the top chords of the side beams 30.
           The roof section also has eight legs 38 that depend downwardly from the roof
   section 18. Four of the legs 38 are mounted to the front end barrier 14, the remaining four
20 legs 38 are mounted to the rear end barrier 16. Each end barrier 14, 16 has guides that
   each receives a respective one of the legs 38 and constrains that leg 38 to move
   longitudinally. In this embodiment, each guide is in the form of an upright tube member
   within which one of the legs 38 is received. Thus, the upright tube members 40 and legs
   38 co-operate in a telescopic like manner.
25
           The primary actuators 20 are linear actuators with a cylinder body that is mounted
   to the respective end barrier 14, 16, such that the piston extends upwardly and is secured
   to the roof section 18. As will be evident from Figure 1, the pistons are secured to the end
   beams 32 of the roof section 18.
30
           The primary and secondary actuators 20, 26 are hydraulic cylinders, and the semi
   trailer 10 may have a tank for storing hydraulic fluid, a pump, and fluid circuits that
   P10014.AU.2                                                                     30104/2018

                                               -10
   connects the tank, pump and primary and secondary actuators 20, 26. The semi-trailer 10
   has a box 44 within which the tank and pump can be housed. For clarity, the tank, pump,
   and fluid circuits are omitted from Figures 1 to 9.
 5          The rollers 28 are each secured to the bottom chord of the respective side beam
   30. Further, the cylinder of the corresponding secondary actuator 26, with which the
   corresponding tie 24 is connected, is secured to the top chord of the side beam 30.
            In the drawings, the tank, pump and fluid circuits are omitted for clarity. As will be
10 appreciated, it will be desirable to be able to operate the primary actuators 20
   independently of the secondary actuators 26. Thus, tensile loads can be applied/released
   to the ties 24, and the roof section 18 can be raised/lowered independently of one another;
   although it will be appreciated that attempting to raise the roof section from the lowered
   position whilst the ties 24 are secured to deck 12 may result in damage.
15
            In this particular embodiment, the semi-trailer 10 is drop bed trailer, and thus the
   deck 12 has a lower portion and an upper portion. The semi-trailer 10 has three bogey
   axles 42 beneath the lower portion of the deck 12, and a kingpin (not shown) beneath the
   upper portion for attaching to a fifth wheel coupling of a prime mover.
20
            Typical drop bed semi-trailers have a lower portion of the deck at a height of
   approximately 880 mm above the road surface. With this configuration and with the
   modules M being slightly spaced apart (as illustrated in Figures 3 to 5), a maximum
   separation in excess of 4 metres can be provided between the lower portion of the deck
25 12 and the bottom of the side beams 30 when the roof section 18 is in the elevated
   position. This provides adequate space to load/unload two layers of modules M that have
   a diameter of 2.3 metres. In this embodiment, the travel of the primary actuators 20 is
   sufficient to provide this maximum separation, and in the elevated position the height of
   the semi-trailer 10 is in excess of 5.5 metres. Further, when the roof section 18 is in the
30 lowered position the height of the semi-trailer 10 is 4.6 metres or less. In certain
   embodiments, when the roof section 18 is in the lowered position the height of the semi
   trailer 10 is 4.3 metres.
   P10014.AU.2                                                                       30104/2018

                                                - 11
            It will be appreciated that some alternative embodiments may be provided in which
   the transportation assembly is a dog-trailer.
 5          Figures 10 and 11 show a transportation assembly according to a second
   embodiment of the present invention. In this particular embodiment, the transportation
   assembly is in the form of a semi-trailer 110, which is towable by a prime mover. The semi
   trailer 110 is to be used in transporting modules of compressible product, such as round
   modules M (also known as "bales") of cotton.
10
            The semi-trailer 110 is substantially similar to the semi-trailer 10 of Figure 1. In
   Figures 10 and 11, the features of the semi-trailer 110 that are substantially similar to
   those of the semi-trailer 10 have the same reference numeral with the prefix "1".
15          The primary difference between the first and second embodiments is that the semi
   trailer 110 is configured to carry up to ten cotton modules M in two layers. To this end, up
   to five modules M can form the first layer of modules, and then up to five modules M can
   form the second layer of modules. Thus, the maximum capacity of the semi-trailer 110 is
   ten modules.
20
            The semi-trailer 110 has a support frame 146 that spaces the forward-most module
   on the first (lower) layer from the front end barrier 114. In addition, the forward most
   module on the second (upper) layer is supported on the support frame 146, as illustrated
   in Figure 11. Furthermore, to accommodate the additional module in the second layer, the
25 roof section 118 has five panels 134 to bear on each of the five modules M in the upper
   layer.
            In this particular embodiment, the hydraulic storage tank and hydraulic pump are
   to be located on the deck 112 of the semi-trailer 110, and between the support frame 146
30 and the front end barrier 114. For clarity, the tank, pump, and fluid circuits are also omitted
   from Figures 10 and 11.
   P10014.AU.2                                                                        30104/2018

                                              -12
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
   of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers
 5 or steps.
           The invention has been described by way of non-limiting example only and many
   modifications and variations may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and
   scope of the invention.
10
   P10014.AU.2                                                                      30104/2018

                                               -13
   CLAIMS:
   1.       A transportation assembly comprising:
            an elongate rectangular deck on which to place compressible modules of a
 5 compressible product, the modules having a predetermined size in an uncompressed
   state;
            front and rear end barriers at respective ends of the deck;
            a roof section that is supported by the end barriers, and is movable between an
   elevated position, and a lowered position; and
10          primary actuators that each extend between the roof section and a respective one
   of the front and rear end barriers, the primary actuators being configured to move the roof
   section relative to the deck between the elevated and lowered positions,
            whereby, when the roof section is in the elevated position, a set consisting of two
   layers of modules can be loaded on the deck; and the primary actuators are operable to
15 move the roof section towards the lowered position thereby compressing and reducing the
   height of the set of modules.
   2.       A transportation assembly according to claim 1, further comprising at least one
   load transfer assembly that is disposed between the end barriers, the load transfer
20 assembly having one or more ties that are securable to extend between the roof section
   and the deck, and one or more secondary actuators that are operable to apply a tensile
   load to the ties.
   3.       A transportation assembly according to claim 2, wherein the ties are non-rigid.
25
   4.       A transportation assembly according to either claim 2 or 3, wherein the ties are
   each movable so as to not inhibit loading/unloading of the modules.
   5.       A transportation assembly, according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the
30 secondary actuators are disposed within the roof section, and the ties have a lower end
   that is releasably securable to the deck, and an upper end that is secured or is securable
   to the secondary actuators.
   P1flf1A All 9                                                                    ionAI9n1R

                                              -14
   6.       A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the ties
   are securable to the deck when the roof section is in the lowered position.
 5 7.       A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the load
   transfer assembly has two ties that, in use, each extend between the deck and the roof
   section on a respective side of the transportation assembly.
   8.       A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 7, wherein the load
10 transfer assembly has a secondary actuator for each tie.
   9.       A transportation assembly according to claim 8, wherein the secondary actuators
   can be linear actuators that each act in a direction that is oblique to a vertical direction.
15 10.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 9, wherein the load
   transfer assembly has rollers that are each supported on a lateral edge of the roof section,
   and each respective tie extends from the respective secondary actuator over one of the
   rollers such that the lower end of the respective tie is beneath the roller for securing to the
   deck.
20
   11.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the roof
   section has two parallel side beams; front and rear end beams that extend between side
   beams; and one or more panels that each extend between the side beams, whereby the
   panels are arranged bear on the modules in an upper of the two layers when the roof
25 section is in the lowered position.
   12.      A transportation assembly according to claim 11, wherein the roof section has a
   plurality of panels that are arranged to each bears on one of the modules in the upper
   layer.
30
   13.      A transportation assembly according to claim 12, wherein the panels are attached
   to an upper edge of the side beams, such that when the roof section is in-the lowered
   P1flf1A All 9                                                                       ionAI9n1R

                                             -15
   position a lower edge of each side beam is positioned to the side of the modules in the
   upper layer.
   14.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the
 5 roof section includes cross beams that extend between the side beams intermediate the
   front and rear end beams.
   15.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the
   side beams, end beams, and cross beams each have a truss configuration.
10
   16.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein the
   roof section further includes downwardly depending legs, and each end barrier has guides,
   wherein each guide receives a respective one of the legs and constrains the leg to move
   longitudinally.
15
   17.      A transportation assembly according to claim 16, wherein each guide is in the form
   of an upright tube member within which one of the legs is received.
   18.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 10, wherein the
20 primary and secondary actuators are hydraulic cylinders, and the transportation assembly
   further comprises a tank for storing hydraulic fluid, a pump, and one or more fluid circuits
   that connects the tank, pump and primary and secondary actuators.
   19.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the
25 maximum separation of the deck and the roof section is in excess of 4 metres.
   20.      A transportation assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the
   transportation assembly is in the form of a towable vehicle.
30 21.      A transportation assembly according to claim 20, wherein the vehicle is a semi
   trailer, and the transportation assembly further comprises one or more bogey axles, and
   P1flf1A All 9                                                                   ionAI9n1R

                                                 -16
   a kingpin for attaching to a fifth wheel coupling of a prime mover, and wherein the deck is
   supported above the axles and kingpin.
   22.      A method of transporting compressible modules of compressible product, the
 5 modules having a predetermined size in an uncompressed state, the method involving:
            providing a transportation assembly that has an elongate rectangular deck, front
   and rear end barriers at respective ends of the deck, a roof section that is supported by
   the end barriers, and is movable between an elevated position, and a lowered position,
   and primary actuators that each extend between the roof section and a respective one of
10 the front and rear end barriers and are configured to move the roof section relative to the
   deck between the elevated and lowered positions;
            with the roof section in the elevated position, loading and arranging a set consisting
   of two layers of modules onto the deck;
            operating the primary actuators to move the roof section towards the lowered
15 position thereby compressing and reducing the height of the set of modules.
   P1flf1A All 9                                                                       ionAI9n1R

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
