                                              ABSTRACT
5 A knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may comprising a tubular strut having a first
  support foot and a bracket attached thereto, the tubular strut forming a first aperture; a height
  adjustment bar translatably and rotatably disposed in the tubular strut, the height-adjustment bar
  forming a plurality of second apertures extending through the cross-section of the height
  adjustment bar; a support bar fixed substantially perpendicularly to the height-adjustment bar,
0 the padded support bar being configured to receive a knee joint posterior; a support strut
  pivotably connected to the bracket, the support strut having a second support foot attached
  thereto, the support strut pivotable away from parallel the tubular strut to form an acute angle
  thereto; and a pin removably disposed in one of the plurality of second apertures to fix the
  height-adjustment bar against translation in one direction.
5

            1/4
                      3D
         4
           16       10
    9
 18 21
    5
16     -        --- 10
                   15
                         12
                            13
                     14
           FIG. 1

      METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR KNEE JOINT FLEXIBILITY REHABILITATION
                           CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
             [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61/950,276
    entitled "Method and Apparatus for Knee Joint Flexibility Rehabilitation" and filed March 10,
 5  2014.
                                                    FIELD
             [0002] The disclosed method and apparatus generally relate to physical therapy for knee
    joints.
                                              BACKGROUND
 0           [0003] The anatomy of a knee joint consists of three bones. These three specific bones
    are the femur (thighbone), the tibia (shinbone) and the patella (kneecap). The patella is located in
    front of the knee joint, and provides partial protection for the anterior portion of the knee.
    Typically, bones are connected to other bones through ligaments. Specifically, the knee joint has
    four ligaments functioning as resilient elastic cables linking the femur and tibia together for the
 5  purpose of maintaining knee joint stability.
             [0004] Collateral ligaments are located vertically on opposed parallel sides of the knee
    joint. The medial collateral ligament is located on the outer inside of the knee joint, and links the
    femur and tibia. The lateral collateral ligament is located on the outer outside of the knee joint,
    and also links the femur and tibia. The purpose of the collateral ligaments is towards controlling
 '0 knee joint sideways motion, thus fortifying the knee joint against unusual movement.
             [0005] Cruciate ligaments are located inside of the knee joint, and cross each other in the
    general form of an "X". the anterior cruciate ligament is located in front, behind the patella, and
    the posterior cruciate ligament is located in the back, linking the femur and tibia and having a
    purpose towards controlling anterior and posterior movement of the knee joint.
25           [0006] Upon completion of knee joint surgery or other type of knee joint treatment, such
    as knee joint replacement or replacement or repair of any torn or damaged previously described
    ligaments, bone fracture and bone fracture surgery, or internal fixation surgery, or for treatment
    of arthritic conditions, or meniscus repair, or for knee injury recovery, regaining normal knee
    joint flexibility, range of motion and strength typically requires a physical therapy rehabilitation
                                                       1

   program.
            [0007] Following knee surgery, or arthritic treatment, or injury treatment, or other
   procedure or course of treatment for the knee joint, physical therapy may be beneficially applied
   to restoring full and painless motion of the knee joint, along with re-establishing associated
 5 ligament and muscle suppleness. Restoration may be followed by a knee joint strengthening
   program focused on regaining normal function of the knee joint. A physical therapy program
   progressively stretches muscle(s) and tendon(s) to their former flexibility. A final rehabilitation
   phase encourages complete return of normal knee joint functionality.
            [0008] There remains a need for an apparatus and method for knee joint gravity-assist
 0 passive flexion.
                                                 SUMMARY
            [0009] A knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may comprise a tubular strut
   having a first support foot and a bracket attached thereto, the tubular strut forming a first
   aperture; a height-adjustment bar translatably and rotatably disposed in the tubular strut, the
 5 height-adjustment bar forming a plurality of second apertures extending through the cross
   section of the height-adjustment bar; a support bar fixed substantially perpendicularly to the
   height-adjustment bar, the padded support bar being configured to receive a knee joint posterior;
   a support strut pivotably connected to the bracket, the support strut having a second support foot
   attached thereto, the support strut pivotable away from parallel the tubular strut to form an acute
 O angle thereto; and a pin removably disposed in one of the plurality of second apertures to fix the
   height-adjustment bar against translation in one direction. The pin may be further removably
   disposed in the first aperture to fix the height-adjustment bar against rotation and translation.
   The first foot may be substantially perpendicular to the tubular strut, and the second foot may be
   substantially perpendicular to the support strut. The support bar may be padded. The bracket may
25 be configured to prevent travel of the support strut away from the tubular strut beyond a
   predetermined angle.
            [0010] A method of using the foregoing apparatus may comprise the steps of orienting a
   patient to a supine position upon a substantially level surface; raising the patient's leg; disposing
   the apparatus under the patient's leg so that the first support foot is adjacent the patient's
30 buttocks, and the tubular member is substantially parallel the thigh of the patient's leg; and
   translating the height-adjustment bar so that the support bar contacts the posterior knee joint of
                                                       2

    the patient's leg or approximately thereto; and allowing the lower portion of the patient's leg to
    extend past the support bar in cantilever fashion so as to permit a gravitational force on the lower
    portion to promote rehabilitation of the knee joint. The method may further comprise the step of
    inserting the pin into one of the plurality of second apertures so as to prevent translation of the
 5  height-adjustment bar toward the table. The method may further comprise the step of inserting
    the pin into the first aperture and into one of the plurality of second apertures so as to prevent
    translation and rotation of the height-adjustment bar.
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             [0011] Fig. 1 provides a perspective view of one embodiment of an apparatus for knee
 0  joint flexibility rehabilitation.
             [0012] Fig. 2 provides a side elevation view of the embodiment of Fig. 1, revealing a
    triangular support frame structure, padded horizontal knee posterior support bar, and adjustable
    linear travel capability.
             [0013] Fig. 3 illustrates a method of using the embodiment of Fig. 2.
 5           [0014] Fig. 4 provides an exploded view of the apparatus of Fig. 1.
                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             [0015] Disclosed is a passive manipulative knee joint flexibility therapy apparatus and
    method, specifically adapted for knee joint flexibility rehabilitation following knee joint surgery
    or other type of knee joint treatment, such as knee joint replacement or replacement or repair of
 '0 any torn or damaged previously described ligaments, bone fracture and bone fracture surgery, or
    internal fixation surgery, or for treatment of arthritic conditions, or meniscus repair, or for knee
    injury recovery, regaining normal knee joint flexibility, range of motion and strength. The
    apparatus capable of reducing muscle spasm, pain and swelling; having such arrangement to
    provide appropriate content stable support of the posterior intersection concerning the femur and
25  tibia of a non-operative, arthritic, injured, fractured, or post-operative recovering knee joint;
    prompting deliberate gravity assisted passive flexion towards gradual knee joint muscle and
    tendon stretching, and mechanical decompression of the knee joint to alleviate pain, pressure,
    swelling, and general discomfort.
             [0016] The disclosed apparatus arrangement may comprise a padded knee posterior
30  support bar disposed atop an adjustable linearly sliding rod; whereby said rod may travel a
                                                        3

    controlled distance while contained inside a slightly larger collaborating support strut tube. A
    locking mechanism may be used, thereby establishing and maintaining a desired height position
    of the posterior knee support bar. Further, the disclosed apparatus may utilize opposed parallel
    horizontal members as stabilizing structure; being estranged, such members may form a stable
 5  apparatus foundation; having each support base tube incorporate a perpendicular strut affixed
    mid span; uniting the opposing strut ends uniquely via a pivot fulcrum point; forming a triangle.
    Further, the apparatus is collapsible to a somewhat flat arrangement for ease of storage or
    shipment.
             [0017] The above brief description sets forth rather broadly certain features of the
 0  disclosed apparatus in order that the description thereof that follows may be better understood,
    and in order that the present contributions to the art may be better appreciated. There are, of
    course, additional features of the disclosed apparatus that will be described hereinafter and which
    will, in whole or in part, form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.
             [0018] Thus, it is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter is not limited in its
 5  application to the details of the construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth
    in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The disclosed subject matter is capable
    of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways, including being
    fabricated with fixed dimensions, non-folding components, or other structural locking
    mechanisms. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein
 '0 are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
             [0019] As such, the concept, upon which this disclosure is based, may readily be utilized
    as a basis for designing other structures, methods, and systems for carrying out several purposes
    of the present invention. It is important, therefore, that the claims be regarded as including such
    equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the subject
25  matter described herein.
             [0020] Various objectives may be therefore apprehended, one or more of which the
    disclosed subject matter may provide:
             [0021] One objective may be to provide a new and unique economically realized passive
    knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus wherein the various elements of the apparatus may
30  be examined.
             [0022] Another objective may be knee joint flexibility rehabilitation.
                                                       4

             [0023] Another objective may be knee joint strengthening rehabilitation.
             [0024] Another objective may be reduction of spasm(s) of the knee joint musculature.
             [0025] Another objective may be knee joint pain reduction.
             [0026] Another objective may be knee joint swelling reduction.
 5           [0027] Another objective may be to provide such an arrangement for which to
    appropriately and contentedly support the posterior intersection relationship of the femur and
    tibia allowing for knee joint decompression.
             [0028] Another objective may be to promote gravity assisted passive flexion specific
    towards gradual knee joint muscle and tendon stretching.
 0           [0029] Another objective may be to provide a padded horizontal posterior knee support
    bar; where a pad could be realized from such material as neoprene, polysulfide, silicone,
    urethane, gel, but not limited thereto; where the horizontal knee posterior support bar may have a
    predetermined length and have rounded ends.
             [0030] Another objective may be to mechanically affix a padded horizontal knee
 5  posterior support bar, and provide proper longitudinal position relative to individual recovering
    patient knee anatomy during gravity assisted passive flexion.
             [0031] Another objective may be to provide the opposed end of said adjustable sliding
    rod strut tube to be perpendicularly introduced in to a somewhat larger diameter horizontal tube;
    considered as a base foot; being realized from such material as ferrous or nonferrous metal,
 '0 plastic, wood, carbon fiber, composite, fiberglass, but not limited thereto; with said tube
    incorporating a purposefully predetermined receiving hole or harbor mid span; being somewhat
    dimensionally reduced of that of the strut tube outer wall dimension; wherein the strut tube end
    being firmly pressed in to the accommodating receiving harbor; having this press fit
    amalgamation permanently affixed by means of mechanical, fusion or chemical bonding, but not
25  limited thereto.
             [0032] Another objective may be to provide said adjustable sliding rod strut tube as being
    perpendicularly introduced in to said horizontal tube base foot; to include a dual purpose
    mounting bracket located an established distance below said adjustable sliding rod entry; being
    located 90 degrees in reference to said horizontal tube base foot; whereas said mounting bracket
30  appendage may be angled at a somewhat 4 o'clock position; being permanently affixed
    mechanically, chemically, or fusion bonded, but not limited to; with said mounting bracket
                                                      5

    realized from such material as ferrous or nonferrous metal, plastic, wood, carbon fiber,
    composite, fiberglass, but not limited thereto; having said mounting bracket realized by means of
    casting, forming, molding, fabricating, stamping, machining, but not limited thereto.
             [0033] Another objective may be to provide said permanently affixed mounting bracket
 5  as being a predetermined length; having a profile with an inside dimension equaling that of a
    cooperating second strut tube outside dimension, in which such profile may comprise a square
    channel profile; with the channel opening positioned facing downward towards said horizontal
    tube base foot; incorporating laterally opposed apertures located at identical predetermined
    points aside said square channel.
 0           [0034] Another objective may be to provide a second said strut tube being a
    predetermined length perpendicularly introduced in to a second somewhat larger diameter
    horizontal tube; considered as a base foot, realized from such material as ferrous or nonferrous
    metal, plastic, wood, carbon fiber, composite, fiberglass, but not limited thereto; having said
    horizontal tube base foot incorporate a purposefully predetermined receiving hole or harbor mid
 5  span; being somewhat dimensionally reduced to that of the said second strut tube outer wall
    dimension; wherein the strut tube end being firmly pressed in to the accommodating receiving
    harbor; having this press fit amalgamation permanently affixed by means of mechanical, fusion
    or chemical bonding, but not limited thereto.
             [0035] Another objective may be to provide the second said strut tube being
 '0 perpendicularly introduced and permanently affixed to the somewhat larger diameter tube;
    considered as a base foot; having the opposing strut tube end include laterally opposed apertures
    equal to the diameter of the apertures referenced in said dual purpose mounting bracket; having
    said apertures located parallel considering said base foot horizontal relationship.
             [0036] Another objective may be to provide the second said strut tube; having the
25  opposing end include laterally opposed apertures; incorporate an arc end; whereas the arc chord
    equaling said strut tube outside diameter; whereby arc height and outside tube radius being
    equivalent; having said arc chord midpoint being the same as of said opposed aperture centers.
             [0037] Another objective may be to provide the adjustable sliding strut tube and second
    strut tube compilation, having an arc end, as united by inserting the arc end of said second strut
30  tube into the accommodating dual purpose channel shaped said mounting bracket; wherein once
    inserted alignment of the cooperating said laterally opposed cooperating of each component, may
                                                      6

    align, thus affording the insertion of a bolt, screw, or pin, but not limited thereto; being realized
    as a pivot fulcrum.
             [0038] Another objective may be to provide the adjustable sliding strut and the second
    strut compilation as utilizing said pivot fulcrum the second strut compilation to swing into a
 5  somewhat flat collapsed configuration, whereas the strut feet are in close horizontal parallel
    proximity.
             [0039] Another objective may be to capitalize upon pivot fulcrum utilization, whereby
    spreading the strut support feet a predetermined distance; having that distance governed by rigid
    contact interface between the pivoting strut tube outer surface engaging the internal top surface
 0  of the affixed said dual purpose mounting bracket channel; whereby realizing a stable acute
    triangle support frame structure.
             [0040] Another objective may be to provide a new knee joint gravity assisted passive
    flexion apparatus, which may be easily and efficiently manufactured and marketed.
             [0041] Another objective may be to provide knee joint gravity assisted passive flexion
 5  apparatus, which is of durable and reliable construction.
             [0042] Another objective may be to provide a new knee joint gravity assisted passive
    flexion apparatus, which may be susceptible of a low cost of manufacture with regard to both
    materials and labor, and which accordingly may then be susceptible of low prices of sale to the
    consuming public, thereby making such knee joint gravity assisted passive flexion assembly
 '0 available to the buying public.
             [0043] With reference now to the drawings, a novel and unique apparatus for knee joint
    flexibility and rehabilitation will be more fully disclosed. Such an apparatus, and method of
    using such apparatus, may meet one or more of the foregoing objectives. Fig. 1 provides a
    perspective view of an embodiment of such an apparatus. The apparatus may have a supple pad 1
25  encompassing nearly the full length of a knee posterior support bar 2, but not necessarily in full
    circumference; having said pad 1 feasibly detained, by some form of bonding agent (e.g., glue,
    double-sided tape, stitching, Velcro, or some other commercially available attachment means) or
    simply by friction or mechanical pressure. The knee posterior support bar may be substantially
    horizontally oriented. The bar 2 and a linearly travelling adjustable rod 3 may be mechanically
30  joined. Said linearly travelling rod 3 may contain one or more holes 4 which may be used to lock
    the rod 3 in vertical position with a pin 5 or any other suitable locking mechanism.
                                                       7

             [0044] A sliding bar strut tube 6 may serve as a structural support component affixed to
    horizontal strut support tube foot 7, for example, at mid span juncture 8, or at an end of the
    support tube foot 7. Said strut tube 6 may also serve as the housing in which said sliding rod or
    bar 3 may translate a determined linear distance, upon having said sliding rod 3 inserted into said
 5  tube housing 6 at induction point 9. Finally, the sliding bar strut tube housing 6 may have affixed
    thereto a multi-task bracket 10. The bracket 10 may be located below said induction point 9,
    such as at reference point 11, and may be disposed at angle to strut support tube foot 7.
             [0045] Said rod 3 may freely rotate in said strut tube 6. In some embodiments, the rod 3
    may be fixed against rotation by inserting the pin 5 through a hole 18 in the strut tube 6 and
 0  further inserted into one of the holes 4 aligned therewith. Such fixation may further prevent
    translation of the rod 3.
             [0046] The pivotal support strut tube 12 may serve as a structural support member
    affixed to horizontal strut support tube foot 13, such as at mid-span juncture 14. The opposite
    end of said strut tube 12 may be introduced into the accommodating landing 15 of said bracket
 5  10. Such introduction may be fixed or pivotable. A pivotable introduction may be
    accommodated by a pivot point, such as provision of a pivot pin inserted, indicated by reference
    16. Thereby having the two collaborate opposing horizontal strut support tube feet 7 & 12 spread
    apart, utilizing the indicated pivot point 16, to where the pivotal support strut tube12 engages the
    multi-task bracket 10 at intended engagement landing point 15, may provide a stable, rigid,
 ,0 gravity assisted passive flexion knee joint flexibility rehabilitation posterior support apparatus.
             [0047] Fig. 2 illustrates two exemplary vertical positions of the support bar 2. An
    exemplary method of using the apparatus of Fig. 1 is described in connection with discussion of
    Figs. 2 and 3. A recovering patient 30 may be placed in a supine position atop a physical therapy
    treatment table 32, or other such firm stable surface, whereby the patient may optionally bend the
25  non-rehabilitating leg at an upward directed 45 degree angle with their foot flatly placed or may
    optionally have the non- rehabilitating leg resting at full horizontal extension. Thereupon,
    introducing the apparatus for knee joint flexibility rehabilitation, being approximately centered
    beneath the recovering knee 34 posterior 36; whereby the strut support tube foot 7 may impinge
    upon or be disposed on the table adjacent the patient's buttock(s) 38; whereby the compilation of
30  the sliding bar strut tube housing 6 and the linearly traveling adjustable sliding rod 3 may slightly
    engage the back of the patient's lower thigh 40; whereby encouraging the lower leg thigh to
                                                       8

   mimic the compilation's acute angle. The patient's recovering knee joint 34 posterior 36 may then
   rest upon the horizontal knee posterior support bar 2, having the desired height of said support
   bar 2 established. Accommodating a desired height of said support bar 2 may be accomplished
   by removing locking pin 5, thus affording said sliding rod 3 free linear movement 17 in either an
 5 ascending or descending direction. Reengagement of the locking pin 5 may be accomplished by
   aligning rod 3 hole 4 with support 6 hole 18 and inserting said locking pin 5. Of course, if both
   of a patient's knee joints require rehabilitation, two such apparatuses may be advantageously
   used at the same time. In other embodiments, the support bar 2 may be of a length sufficient to
   support both of a patient's knee joints, and more than one rod 3 and more than one strut tube 6
 0 may be used to support a single support bar, or more than one support bars 2 in an apparatus.
           [0048] Should free rotating motion of the sliding rod 3 be desired, the locking pin 5 may
   be inserted in the appropriate hole 4 of rod 3 above support ring 19, whereby the vertical load of
   the patient's leg may be transmitted through the locking pin 5 to the top of the support ring 19.
   The linearly traveling adjustable sliding rod 3 being so disposed, the knee posterior support bar 2
 5 may be temporarily in parallel with opposing horizontal strut support tube feet 7 & 13,
   respectively. The patient's lower leg 42 may now be extended out over the horizontal knee
   posterior support bar 2, whereby said support bar 2 may serve as a fulcrum. The compilation
   engagement of the pivot support strut tube 12, and sliding bar strut tube housing 6 multi-task
   bracket 10; utilizing a pivot pin, referenced as 16, may have said strut tube 12 in cantilever;
 O thereby establishing an acute angle support structure. Further, considering a phantom centerline
   20 commencing from the center of the knee posterior support bar 2 end 21; traveling vertically
   downward ceasing imaginarily between the opposing horizontal strut support tube feet 7 & 13,
   simulating opposing right angles having said centerline 20 as the adjacent; revealing said tube
   foot 13 opposite angle line 22 extends further forward than does opposite angle line 23 of said
25 tube 7. Having this acute triangle configuration may beneficially negate any forward catapulting
   or pitching effect that could be realized during gravity assisted passive flexion of a knee joint.
   Now, again, referencing Fig. 1 contemplating the length of the horizontal knee posterior support
   bar 2 to that of the horizontal strut support tube feet 7 & 13 being equivalent or longer, may
   conclusively diminish any involuntary lateral or rolling movement of the horizontal knee
30 posterior support bar 2.
           [0049] Continuing on with Fig. 4 being an exploded illustration of the embodiment of
                                                       9

    Fig. 1, an end cap 24 may be inserted into each end of supports 7 and 13 respectively. The strut
    and support tubes, rods and/or bars may comprise any suitable cross-sectional configuration,
    such as round, square, polygonal, channel, angular or the like. The feet may comprise tubular,
    angular, channel or plate structural members.
 5           [0050] The foregoing thus describes a new knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus.
    The knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may be specifically intended for gravity
    assisted passive flexion of the knee joint. The knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may
    be used to provide knee rehabilitation treatment specific for knee joint stiffness, flexibility and
    strengthening. The knee joint flexibility rehabilitation may be used to provide knee
 0  rehabilitation treatment specific for swelling reduction, pain reduction, spasm reduction, and
    compression reduction. The knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may be used to
    provide knee rehabilitation treatment specific for injury recovery, arthritic relief therapy, bone
    fracture recovery and surgery recovery. The knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may
    provide an arrangement that is appropriate for and contently supports the posterior intersection
 5  relationship of the femur and tibia of a post-operative recovering knee joint. The knee joint
    flexibility rehabilitation apparatus may promote deliberate gravity assist passive flexion specific
    towards gradual knee joint decompression and muscular and tendon stretching.
             [0051] Although the disclosed subject matter and its advantages have been described in
    detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made
 '0 herein without departing from the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover, the
    scope of the claimed subject matter is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of
    the process, machine, manufacture, composition, or matter, means, methods and steps described
    in the specification. As one will readily appreciate from the disclosure, processes, machines,
    manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be
25  developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result
    as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized. Accordingly, the appended
    claims are intended to include within their scope such processes, machines, manufacture,
    compositions of matter, means, methods or steps.
30
                                                      10

                                                      CLAIMS
    I claim:
    1.       A knee joint flexibility rehabilitation apparatus comprising:
 5                a tubular strut having a first support foot and a bracket attached thereto, the tubular
                      strut forming a first aperture;
                  a height-adjustment bar translatably and rotatably disposed in the tubular strut, the
                      height-adjustment bar forming a plurality of second apertures extending through
                      the diameter of the height-adjustment bar;
 0                a support bar fixed substantially perpendicularly to the height-adjustment bar, the
                      padded support bar being configured to receive a knee joint posterior;
                  a support strut pivotably connected to the bracket, the support strut having a second
                      support foot attached thereto, the support strut pivotable away from parallel the
                      tubular strut to form an acute angle thereto; and
 5                a pin removably disposed in one of the plurality of second apertures to fix the height
                      adjustment bar against translation in one direction.
    2.       The apparatus of claim 1, the pin being further removably disposed in the first aperture to
             fix the height-adjustment bar against rotation and translation.
    3.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first foot is substantially perpendicular to the
 10          tubular strut, and the second foot is substantially perpendicular to the support strut.
    4.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support bar is padded.
    5.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the bracket is configured to prevent travel of the
             support strut away from the tubular strut beyond a predetermined angle.
    6.       A method of using the apparatus of claim 2, the method comprising the steps of:
25                orienting a patient to a supine position upon a substantially level surface;
                  raising the patient's leg;
                  disposing the apparatus under the patient's leg so that the first support foot is adjacent
                      the patient's buttocks, and the tubular member is substantially parallel the thigh of
                      the patient's leg; and
30                translating the height-adjustment bar so that the support bar contacts the posterior
                      knee joint of the patient's leg or approximately thereto; and
                                                         11

         allowing the lower portion of the patient's leg to extend past the support bar in
             cantilever fashion so as to permit a gravitational force on the lower portion to
             promote rehabilitation of the knee joint.
  7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of inserting the pin into one of the
5    plurality of second apertures so as to prevent translation of the height-adjustment bar
     toward the table.
  8. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of inserting the pin into the first
     aperture and into one of the plurality of second apertures so as to prevent translation and
     rotation of the height-adjustment bar
0
                                               12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   T
                   e
                   x
                   t

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+270F><U+261B>
                   <U+2720><U+2712>
                                                     <U+261B><U+261E>
                                     <U+270F> <U+270C>
              <U+270F><U+2711>        <U+261B><U+2711>
                                           <U+270D><U+261E>
                                     <U+271F><U+2721>         <U+270C><U+2720>
                   <U+2720><U+270E>        <U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720>    <U+271F><U+271F>              <U+2720><U+271F>
                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
