                                             ABSTRACT
           Systems and methods are disclosed for determining a pitch of a roof of a structure by
   analyzing one or more images showing the roof, at least one of the one or more image
 5 showing the roof obtained with a camera of a user device and an image not obtained by the
   user device. The system uses the one or more images including an image obtained by the
   user device to generate a report for determination of an amount of materials needed for a
   construction project, the report including at least one image showing the structure and an
   estimated area of the construction project.
10

                                                    1
                                     IMAGE ANALYSIS SYSTEM
           This application    is   a divisional   application of Australian   patent  application
   <removed-apn>, the entire contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by
 5 reference.
   BACKGROUND
   Technical Field
           The present disclosure relates to systems and methods used to track and manage
10 multiple properties and the various attributes and characteristics of each property and
   buildings on the property on a smartphone or mobile device.
   Description of the Related Art
           Property management systems that track conditions, features, and other attributes of
15 one or more properties have typically used paper-based systems that have involved manual
   updates when property data is changed or new properties to manage are added. In some
   instances, features and attributes of different properties have been stored as individual
   records in a database, for example a government database containing property records for
   parcel numbers, address, year built, square footage estimate, and the like.
20
           Pitch determination systems that are used, for example, to determine a pitch of a roof
   have traditionally involved a person visiting the property and measuring the roof using a tape
   measure and level. Recently, systems have been introduced by EagleView Technologies,
   Inc. that allow multiple aerial images to be used to render a three-dimensional model of the
25 roof and to produce a roof report from which the pitch of a roof may be determined.
   Brief Summary
           In one embodiment, there is provided one or more non-transitory computer readable
   medium storing a set of computer executable instructions for running on one or more
30 computer systems that when executed cause the one or more computer systems to: identify a
   geographic location of a structure; determine a pitch of a roof of the structure by analyzing
   one or more image showing the roof, at least one of the one or more image showing the roof
   obtained with a user device; and generate a report for determination of an amount of
   materials needed for a construction project, wherein the report includes at least one image
35 showing the structure and an estimated roofing area of the roof.

                                                  2
            In another embodiment, there is provided one or more non-transitory computer
   readable medium storing a set of computer executable instructions for running on one or
   more computer systems that when executed cause the one or more computer systems to:
   identify a geographic location of a structure; generate a three-dimensional model of the
 5 structure by analyzing one or more image showing the structure, at least one of the one or
   more image showing the structure obtained with a user device; and generate a report for
   determination of an amount of materials needed for a construction project, wherein the report
   includes at least one image showing the structure and an estimated area for the construction
   project.
10
   Brief Description of the Several Views of the Drawings
            Figure 1 describes an overview of an architecture to implement a property
   management system on a smartphone, as well as a property management system that runs
   on a smartphone and is coordinated with the database on the server.
15
            Figures 2A-2AD are example screenshots of one embodiment for acquiring and
   tracking data for one or more buildings on one or more properties.
            Figures 3A-3X are example screenshots of one embodiment for acquiring and tracking
20 data for one or more buildings on one or more properties.
            Figures 4A-4E are example screenshots from one or more embodiments for
   acquiring and updating three-dimensional models for one or more buildings on one or more
   properties.
25
            Figures 5A-5L are example screenshots from one embodiment for capturing,
   modifying, and annotating image data for one or more buildings on one or more properties.
            Figure 6 is an example screenshot of a three-dimensional model used to capture,
30 modify, and annotate building characteristics on a tablet device.
            Figure 7 is a diagram showing a part of a process for positioning the camera to
   determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
35          Figure 8 is a diagram showing a part of a process for orienting the camera to
   determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.

                                                    3
            Figure 9A is a diagram showing a part of a process for orienting the camera in a near
   field to determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
 5          Figure 9B is a picture showing a part of a process for orienting the camera in a near
   field to determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
            Figure 1OA is a diagram showing a part of a process for orienting the camera in a far
   field to determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
10
            Figure 1OB is a picture showing a part of a process for orienting the camera in a far
   field to determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
            Figure 11 is a diagram showing a part of a process involving an operation of a scissor
15 marker which can be overlaid on image to determine the slope of an object at a distance
   using a smartphone.
            Figure 12 is a diagram showing examples of manipulating a marker overlaid on image
   to determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
20
            Figure 13 is a diagram showing examples of selecting a marker overlaid on image to
   determine the slope of an object at a distance using a smartphone.
   Detailed Description of embodiments of the invention
25          Figure 1 shows one embodiment of a block diagram of a computer hardware system
   to obtain and described herein provide enhanced computer- and network-based methods,
   techniques, and systems for building structure estimation employing perspective imagery
   from independent sources.
30          Figure 1 is therefore one example block diagram of a computing system 100 for
   practicing embodiments of the statistical point pattern matching method described herein, and
   for practicing embodiments of a building structure estimation system based on the point
   pattern matching, according to one embodiment.
35          One or more general purpose or special purpose computing systems may be used to
   implement the computer- and network-based methods, techniques, and systems for point

                                                   4
   pattern matching computation described herein and for practicing embodiments of a building
   structure estimation system based on the point pattern matching. More specifically, the
   computing system 100 may comprise one or more distinct computing systems present at
   distributed locations.
 5
            In addition, each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate
   to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. Moreover, in one example
   embodiment, the various components of a Building structure estimation system 114 may
   physically reside on one or more machines, which use standard inter-process communication
10 mechanisms (e.g., TCP/IP) to communicate with each other. Further, the Building structure
   estimation system 114 may be implemented in software, hardware, firmware, or in some
   combination to achieve the capabilities described herein.
            Examples of computing systems and methods to obtain a roof report are shown and
15 described in detail in U.S. Patent Nos. 8,078,436 and 8,170,840 and these can be used as
   one component of the present embodiment, as well as other roof report generation systems.
   For completeness, one potential system for creating such a report will be described herein as
   follows.
20          In the embodiment shown, the computing system 100 comprises a computer memory
   ("memory") 102, a display 104, one or more Central Processing Units ("CPU") 106,
   Input/Output devices 108 (e.g., keyboard, mouse, joystick, track pad, CRT or LCD display,
   and the like), other computer-readable media 110, and network connections 112. A building
   structure estimation system 114 is shown residing in the memory 102. In other embodiments,
25 some portion of the contents or some or all of the components of the building structure
   estimation system 114 may be stored on and/or transmitted over the other computer
   readable media 110. The components of the building structure estimation system 114
   preferably execute on one or more CPUs 106 and generate roof estimate reports, as
   described herein. Other code or programs 116 (e.g., a Web server, a database management
30 system, and the like) and potentially other data repositories, such as data repository 118, also
   reside in the memory 102, and preferably execute on one or more CPUs 106.           Not   all  of
   the components in Figure 1 are required for each implementation. For example, some
   embodiments embedded in other software do not provide means for user input, for display,
   for a customer computing system, or other components.            Currently, some inputs to the
35 building structure estimation system 114 are automatically generated, but other inputs may be
   entered manually to supplement data acquired through automated means.                    Further

                                                    5
   automation of the building structure estimation system, including automation of roof materials
   overage estimation is a goal addressed by the method described herein, along with other
   methods.
 5         In a typical embodiment, the building structure estimation system 114 includes an
   image acquisition engine 120; a roof modeling engine 122; a point pattern matching
   computation engine 124, and a roof materials overage computation engine 125 within, or as
   part of, the roof modeling engine 122; a report generation engine 126, an interface engine
   128, and a data repository 130. Other and/or different modules may be implemented.            In
10 addition, the building structure estimation system 114 interacts via a network 132 with an
   image source computing system 134, an operator computing system 136, and/or a customer
   computing system 138.      Communication system 132 may utilize one or more protocols to
   communicate via one or more physical networks, including local area networks, wireless
   networks, dedicated lines, intranets, the Internet, and the like.
15
           The image acquisition engine 120 performs at least some of the functions described
   herein, with respect to the processes described herein. In particular, the image acquisition
   engine 120 interacts with the image source computing system 134 to obtain one or more
   images of a building, and stores those images in the building structure estimation system data
20 repository 130 for processing by other components of the building structure estimation system
   114.
           The roof modeling engine 122 performs at least some of the functions described with
   reference to Figures 2-13 below.      In particular, the roof modeling engine 122 generates a
25 model based on one or more images of a building that are obtained from the building
   structure estimation system data repository 130 or directly from the image source computing
   system 134.    As noted, model generation may be performed semi-automatically, based on
   at least some inputs received from the operator computing system 136.
30         In addition, at least some aspects of the model generation may be performed
   automatically. In particular, to generate a 3D model, the roof modeling engine 122 may use
   output from the point pattern matching computation engine 124 which employs variational
   analysis to compute a point-to-point probability spread function. The point-to-point probability
   spread function can be used to estimate which individual points on one image of the building
35 most likely match corresponding points on another image of the building (i.e., the point
   pattern matching computation engine endeavors to "optimize" point matching associations).

                                                  6
           This estimation may be based on adaptive predominance voting probabilities
   generated from shape pattern matches.        The shape pattern matches can be created by
   comparing combinations of points on an orthogonal view of the building with specific other
   points on an oblique view of the building, and as further described herein.
 5
    Property Management
           Figures 2A-2AD describe systems and methods for using a smartphone to manage
   multiple properties, and to access the attributes and characteristics of buildings on the
   properties.   The term "smartphone" as used herein is intended in its broadest sense to
10 include any Internet capable small mobile device and as such includes within its meaning a
   tablet, mini-computer or other mobile device that has a wireless connection to the Internet
   and an internal microprocessor.
           In one or more embodiments, property management systems, including software
15 modules may be used to track physical features of property, such as location of the property,
   valuation of the property, number of buildings on the property, and information about the
   buildings on the property. This information may include photographs of different areas of
   individual buildings such as roofs, walls, interiors, surrounding areas outside the building
   structure such as groundcover, shrubs that may be growing against the structure, and other
20 building conditions that can visually documented and assessed.           Property management
   systems may also be used to store building information such as two-dimensional or three
   dimensional models of the building including the roof structure. Other information may be kept
   in a property management system including ownership of the property, taxes paid on the
   property, reports of repairs or insurance claims against structures of the property, and the
25 like.
           The information stored in a property management system on a smartphone may be
   implemented by entering all data directly into the smartphone, however the preferred
   embodiment is for property management information to be shared between the smartphone at
30 one or more property management databases on a server. In this way, property management
   information updated at the server can be sent to the smartphone device, and information
   gathered by the property management system on the smartphone device can be used to
   update information for the property on the server.
35         One embodiment of sharing would be to synchronize the database on the smartphone
   via a web service that also queries the server database.

                                                     7
            In one or more implementations, the system on the smartphone is able to retrieve
   information about properties that was acquired through products that were ordered about
   those properties. For example, roof reports, walls reports, solar reports, and other similar
 5 reports may be ordered for a property from EagleView Technologies, Inc. These reports
   provide detailed analysis and description of characteristics of the property that include for
   example the number of facets on a roof, the pitch of each facet, the square footage of the
   roof, a three- dimensional model of the building, walls information for the building, total living
   area within the structure, and the like.
10
            For example, a user at a property site, such as an insurance adjustor or a contractor,
   may use the property management system on the contractor's smartphone to determine if
   such a report exists for the property. If so, the user can look through the list of properties on
   the smartphone, locate the property, and view the property information. Optionally, the user
15 may query the server to see if updated information on the property may be available. If such
   a report does not exist for a property, then the user can order one from the property
   management system on the smartphone.            In some cases, the results of a report request
   may be returned within several minutes.          For example, if a contractor is available at a
   customer site and a report request is returned within the period of time that the contractor is
20 at the property, the contractor will be able to provide the customer with an accurate repair or
   construction bid estimate before the contractor leaves the property. This has the advantage
   of providing the property owner with a quick, accurate bid, and the advantage of not requiring
   separate trips on behalf of the contractor to the property.
25          In some embodiments, in addition to reports other items may be requested for
   download, including data, diagrams, GIS data, and geometric models of buildings relevant to
   the property of interest and immediate surrounding areas.
            In one embodiment, if a three-dimensional model or diagram derived from a model
30 already existed on the server because of a previous request for a model of a property or the
   property model was pre-computed for a particular geographic area, a model of the property,
   including any regeneration of diagrams or documents related to the model, would be
   immediately downloaded to the smart phone. In the case that the three-dimensional model
   was not on the smart phone or on the server, the model, and any diagrams or documents
35 derived from the model, would be generated on demand from the imagery and associated

                                                   8
   image metadata for the property, or from intermediate precursor data for the property such as
   point clouds derived from the images and metadata.
           Figure 2A-2AD show examples of an interface of a property management system on a
 5 smartphone.
           Figure 2A shows screen 201 used to login to the property management system
   requiring an email name and a password. The system also allows the user to remember the
   details selected when previously using the system, as well as allowing the user to sign in
10 automatically.
           Figure 2B shows screen 202 that is displayed when the smartphone is updating the
   orders for property reports in its database with orders in the server database. Figure 2C
   shows screen 203 that is displayed as a result of the update, and for recent properties that
15 have been viewed, lists the address of the property, a claim number associated with the
   property, a thumbnail image of the property, and also a date and time that reflects the time
   that the order was completed. In one embodiment, the claim number could be used to list the
   displayed properties. In other embodiments, other fields could be chosen to include on the
   screen, including but not limited to a report type or a category ID. There are also buttons at
20 the bottom of the screen that can be used to sort the results for the displayed orders. For
   example, these buttons can be used to show only completed orders, in- progress orders, or
   newly placed orders. In addition, a settings button is available to change settings or default
   values for the property management system.
25         Figure 20 shows screen 204 that is displayed when a specific property is selected
   from the previous screen. Information about the property is shown including a thumbnail
   image, order number, address, claim number, type of report, price of the report, whether the
   report was requested as an express report, and pitch of the roof for a building on the property.
   In addition, a button is displayed at the bottom which allows the user to add photos to the
30 report, such as photos taken with the user's smartphone camera, or images stored on the
   user's smartphone.
           In one or more embodiments, photos or video that is taken of property or buildings on
   a property can be used as a source of imagery to be used in combination with, or in place of
35 aerial imagery for generating three-dimensional models of structures and other objects and
   features of the property.

                                                  9
           Figure 2E shows a screen 205 that shows more details on the information for the
   property, including the batch ID of the report, cat ID, the date and time that the order was
   placed and was completed, the type of structure of buildings on the property, and whether this
 5 was a referral from another property evaluation company.
           Figure 2F shows screen 206 that is displayed when the user selects the completed
   orders button at the lower part of the screen. In this example, the user does not have any
   completed orders that are available, therefore nothing is shown in this screen shot. If there
10 were a completed order, it would be shown here.
           Figure 2G shows screen 207 which is displayed when the "In Progress" button at the
   bottom of the screen is clicked. A search area is displayed at the top of the screen, and
   below the search area the most recent accessed orders in progress are displayed for each
15 property. A thumbnail image if available is displayed on the left hand side next to the address
   of the property. The date an order was placed, as well as the claim number for the property is
   shown. The arrow to the right of each property listing can be selected for more detailed
   information.
20         Figure 2H shows screen 208 which is displayed when more information is requested
   by selecting the right arrow on the preview screen. The status of the order for the property is
   shown as "In Progress," and next to that a button is displayed that allows the smartphone
   user to add a photo or other image of the property if available. Below that, the address of the
   property, claim number, date and time the report was placed, the type of report, and whether
25 the report was marked as express is also shown. In addition, the "Measure Pitch" button may
   be selected, which takes the user to the screen 224. The user is also allowed to add or view
   photos associated with the property.
           Figure 21 shows screen 209 that allows the user to sort orders by one or more criteria,
30 such as but not limited to the date the order was placed (either newest first or oldest first),
   claim number, cat ID, and batch.
           Figure 2J shows the screen 210 which is displayed when the user places a new order.
   The user has the option of either adding a current location, or adding a new address.
35

                                                   10
           Figure 2K shows screen 211 which is displayed when the user selects the "Add
   Current Location" button from the previous screen. A map is presented that shows the
   locations available, and highlights one location for a report with a pin below an abbreviated
   address. An arrow next to the address allows the user to enter or view more information. In
 5 addition, the latitude and longitude of the property is displayed at the lower part of the screen.
           Figure 2L shows screen 212 which is displayed when the rolled up map icon at the
   bottom of the previous screen is selected. The user is given the option to view either a street
   map, a satellite map, or a hybrid of both maps. When the user is ready to identify the location,
10 the user selects the "Drop Pin" button to either drop or move the pin.
           Figure 2M shows screen 213 which is displayed after the actions on the previous
   screen are complete if the listed address is not exact, for example the listed house number
   does not exist. If this occurs, Figure 2N showing screen 214 is displayed that presents the
15 nearest correct address. Figure 20 shows screen 215 which is an interface to allow the user
   to enter corrections to the address, or to enter in an entirely new address.
           Figure 2P shows screen 216 which is displayed when the user selects the "Add New
   Address" button from screen 210. The user may enter the street address, city, state, and ZIP
20 Code. In addition, the user can designate a country, which is shown here as the United
   States.
           Figure 2Q shows screen 217 which is displayed after address information is added
   from the previous screen. A "New Order" title serves as a placeholder for the order next to
25 the "Add Photo" button. The entered address is also displayed. The user is able to select the
   report to order by toggling through the report selection options by selecting the left or right
   arrow keys.     In this example, a "Premium" report is selected. The user also selects the
   delivery speed of the report by toggling through the delivery options by selecting the left or
   right arrow keys.     In this example, a "Regular" report is ordered. Similarly, the user can
30 specify the number of structures located at the property address, whether there had been any
   changes within the last two years, and the property type, which includes but is not limited to
   residential and commercial.
           Figure 2R shows screen 218 which is a continuation of screen 217 that is displayed
35 when the user scrolls down screen 217. The user is able to select the "Add More Details"

                                                    11
   button or the "Measure Pitch" button which would take the user to screen 222. The user
   places the order by selecting the "Place Order" button.
            Figure 2S shows screen 219 which is displayed when the "Add More Details" button
 5 on screen 218 is selected. Here, the user is able to enter a claim number, a purchase order
   number, or additional comments in free-text form to be associated with the order. In some
   embodiments, additional information may entered into this screen including, but not limited to
   claim information, building ID, promotion code, or other.
10          Figure 2T shows screen 220 which may be displayed if a user incorrectly enters data
   while placing a new order. The text shown, "Error message example" in some embodiments
   may be replaced with text that specifically describes the error and how the user can correct
   the error.
15          Figure 2U shows screen 221 which is shown when the user selects the "Add New
   Photos" button on screen 208. In some embodiments, the smartphone device camera is
   activated and allows the user to take one or more photographs of the building if the user is at
   the building location. In other embodiments, the user is able to identify stored images of the
   property, such as pictures previously taken, and add them to the order. In some
20 embodiments, these pictures may be used during the process of analyzing the property
   during the processing and completion of the order. These photos may also be used as a part
   of the final report itself.
            Figure 2V shows screen 222 which is displayed when the "Measure Pitch" button is
25 selected, such as the one in screen 208. In this embodiment, the screen is used to select two
   options to measure pitch via the "Use Photo", and "Use Accelerometer" buttons.
            Figure 2W shows screen 223 which is displayed when the "Use Photo" button is
   selected in screen 222. The smartphone camera is then activated and the user takes a
30 picture of the facet for which pitch is to be measured.
            Figure 2X shows screen 224 which is the result of the picture-taking step in screen
   223. Here, the user has taken a picture of the gable of a garage in order to determine the
   pitch of each side of the gable. In the embodiment shown here, the user will use a "scissor
35 marker" that is described below in further detail.

                                                    12
           Figure 2Y shows screen 225 which is displayed when the "Use Accelerometer" button
   is selected in screen 222.
           In one embodiment shown here, the smartphone acts as a carpenter's level which can
 5 be placed against a surface for which the pitch is to be measured, such as against a rafter to
   measure its pitch. Once the smartphone is in place, the user selects the "Measure Pitch"
   button. Other processes and methods of determining pitch are described below.
           Figure 2Z shows screen 236 which is displayed as a result of the pitch measurement
10 from screen 225. Here, the pitch is reported in standard roofing terminology of 5/12. In other
   embodiments, the pitch may be represented as an angle, a gradient, or some other measure.
           Figure 2AA shows screen 227 which is displayed after a roof pitch is determined, for
   example from screen 225. Here, the user would access screen 227 by clicking the "Edit
15 Report" button under a completed order detail page. In some embodiments, this would also
   be an additional button to the "View Report" page. Here, the property manager system on the
   smartphone that has received detailed data on the structure of the roof, for example through a
   completed roof report order, and can construct a two-dimensional or three-dimensional
   diagram of the house. This diagram would then be shown on screen 227 for the user to
20 assign pitches to individual facets of the building. In one or more embodiments, this model of
   the house can be scrolled, or zoomed in or zoomed out to view the full structure, and to read
   or apply proper pitches.
           Figure 2AB describes screen 228 which allows the user to change settings within the
25 property manager system on the smartphone by selecting the settings button on the lower
   right portion of the screen. Here, the user can adjust account information, such as whether to
   use the current location of the smartphone device as a location for the account, or whether to
   automatically fetch order information corresponding to the account location, or whether to wait
   for the smartphone user to ask for order information to be downloaded. In addition, the user
30 can choose whether to show claim ID within reports, and also specify additional email
   addresses to which reports should be sent.
           Figure 2AC shows screen 229 which is displayed by selecting the right arrow next to
   "Fetch Order Info" on screen 228. Here, the user is able to select how data that is updated
35 on the server may be sent to the smartphone. This data may include but is not limited to order
   status, order information, a final property report, or any other property-related data, which

                                                   13
   may include three-dimensional models, diagrams, or data. A user may turn the push feature
   on if the user has a low-cost/high-bandwidth data connection such as a Wi-Fi connection. If
   the user has a slower or more expensive data connection, the user may turn the push feature
   off, and instead specify at what intervals data from the server should be fetched. In one
 5 embodiment described in screen 229, the user is given the option to fetch data every 15
   minutes, every 30 minutes, hourly, or to not have data automatically fetched at all but rather
   wait for the user to manually ask for the data.
            In other embodiments, different methods may be used to determine what data is sent
10 from the server to the user's smartphone, and at what time it is sent. For example, suppose a
   roof report for a property exists that contains roof measurements, a three-dimensional model
   of the house structure, pitch data for facets of the roof, total living area, property condition
   assessments, and several pictures of the house and surrounding area. If this roof report on
   the server that was downloaded to the users smartphone device has been subsequently
15 changed, for example additional images of the property have been added to the report at the
   server, it is not necessary to resend the entire roof report, but only send the data that has
   changed.      In one embodiment, this is accomplished by looking at the timestamps of the
   relative files, and only sending data from the server that has a timestamp newer that the
   timestamp on the corresponding data on the smartphone device.
20
            Figure 2AD shows screen 230 which allows the user to designate data fields to
   display. Here, the user has the choice of Cat ID, claim number, batch ID, or status.
           The assignee of the present application, Eagle View Technologies, has filed a number
25 of applications on various software products that assist contractors in preparing bids to repair
   roofs, install siding and perform construction products. The issued patents include 8,170,840;
   8,078,436 and the pending applications include 13/757,694 and 13/757,712 both of them filed
   on February 1, 2013 and naming Chris Pershing as an inventor.                 The patents and
   applications provide examples of reports that are supplied to contractors to assist them in
30 preparing construction bids. According to one embodiment of the present invention, a
   contractor or other user can receive these reports as an active computer data file and sent to
   the property management system on the user's smartphone.
            Figure 3A-3X shows another embodiment of a property manager system on a
35 smartphone device.

                                                  14
            Figure 3A shows screen 231 which is a welcome screen displayed to the user that
   allows the user to login by providing an email and a password, or to create an account on the
   smartphone.
 5          Figure 3B shows screen 232 which is displayed when the user selects "Create
   Account" on screen 231. The user is asked to enter an email, password, and then retype the
   password. To create the account the user selects the continue button.
            Figure 3C shows screen 233 which is displayed when the user selects the continue
10 button on screen 232. The user is asked for a first name, last name, phone with extension,
   and company name. To enter this information the user selects the continue button.
            Figure 30 shows screen 234 which is displayed when the user selects the continue
   button on screen 233. The user is asked to enter an address, city, state or province, and zip
15 or postal code. To enter this information the user selects the continue button.
            Figure 3E shows screen 235 which is displayed when the user selects the continue
   button on screen 234. The user is asked to enter billing information including first name, last
   name, billing email, and phone number. The user also has the option to select the checkbox
20 which indicates that contact information should be used for billing information. To enter this
   information the user selects the continue button.
            Figure 3F shows screen 236 which is displayed when the user selects the continue
   button on-screen 235. The user is asked to enter billing information including company name,
25 company address, city, state or province, and zip or postal code. To enter this information the
   user selects the continue button.
            Figure 3G shows screen 237 which is displayed when the user selects the continue
   button in screen 236. The user is asked to provide email information that is used to send
30 notification and reports to. The user may choose to use the login email address, or specify
   another email address to be used. The user may also request to be sent email regarding new
   products and services from EagleView Technologies, Inc. Finally, the user is asked to check
   that the terms of use have been read and agreed to. To enter this information the user
   selects the create button.
35

                                                   15
           Figure 3H shows screen 238 which is displayed when the user selects the create
   button in screen 237. This screen informs the user that an account has been created, and
   allows the user to go to the main menu or to place a new order.
 5         Figure 31 shows screen 239 which is displayed when the user selects the main menu
   button in screen 238. This screen gives the user the option to place an order, manage my
   properties, view order history, or change settings.
           Figure 3J shows screen 240 which is displayed when the user selects the place order
10 button in screen 239, or selects the new order button in screen 238. The screen allows the
   user to place an order for a property product. The screen allows the user to use an existing
   property in the property manager system, or to specify a new address to be used. The user
   may also give this new address a property name for easy reference in the future. In addition,
   the user may use a map view to identify the property location. The user also has the option to
15 add and edit photos related to the property at the time the order is placed. For example, the
   user may be at the property location use the camera in the smartphone to various pictures of
   the building and surrounding area to be used when the order is processed, or to be attached
   to the order once the order is complete. The user selects the place order button once all
   desired information is added.
20
           Figure 3K shows screen 241 which is displayed when the add button of screen 240
   was selected for no data was entered into any fields. A circle with a small "x" is displayed to
   indicate the error.
25         Figure 3L shows screen 242 which shows the user entering an address into the place
   order screen, and assigning the property name "Jessica's Storm Repair" as a reference to
   this order.
           Figure 3M shows screen 243 which is displayed as a result of selecting the place
30 order button of screen 242. Here, the property management system found an already existing
   address corresponding to 123 Main Street in Seattle. The system displays an error message
   and suggests the user select either the existing property feature of screen 240, or add a
   number or a description in the building 10 field to associate another building with this
   property.
35

                                                    16
           Figure 3N shows screen 244 which reports a product has been successfully ordered.
   The user is given the option to place a new order, or go to manage my properties.
           Figure 30 shows screen 245 that is used to confirm an order prior to the order being
 5 placed. The screen consists of the order address, with a button next to the address that
   allows the user to add additional photos, either from the smartphone camera or from an
   existing image. In addition, the user is asked to select a type of report, in this case a Premium
   Residential report.   A delivery option may also be selected, in this case a Three Hour
   Delivery. The user may also specify the number of structures at the address, in this case
10 there is one structure, and to specify whether there had been any changes in the last four
   years. In addition, the user is able to select report photos, in this case photos to be included
   along with the received report. The user selects the place order button to continue to the
   payment option.
15         Figure 3P shows screen 246 that is used to receive credit card information when
   submitting a report. The user is asked to enter a card type, such as Visa or American
   Express, the card number, and expiration date. To place the order, user selects the place
   order button at the lower right.
20         Figure 30 shows screen 247 that is displayed as a result of the user selecting
   manage my properties in screen 239. In this screen, lists of properties managed by the user
   are displayed. The properties are identified by property name, address, date and time
   associated with the property, and a thumbnail view of the property to the left. The user also
   has the option to add a text annotation or additional photos or images to the property. A
25 particular property may be searched by entering a portion of the name or address into the
   search box at the top of the screen.
           Figure 3R shows screen 248 that is displayed as a result of entering property
   information while placing an order. Once all information is entered, the user has the option to
30 delete, cancel, or save the order for later placement.
           Figure 3S shows screen 249 which displays a completed report that was ordered by
   the user using the previous steps. This screen shows the order 10 number, address of the
   property, claim number if available, and one or more information items from the report. In this
35 example, an area of 3709 is shown, the pitch of the roof of the house is shown as 10/12, and
   the ridge lengths of the roof are shown as 94 feet. The user also has the option to view the

                                                   17
   entire report on the smartphone device by clicking the view report button in the upper right
   corner.
            Figure 3T shows screen 250 which is displayed when property photos that are part of
 5 the completed report are reviewed. A list of photo thumbnails is presented in a column that
   describes the content of the associated picture. In this example, the user has selected the
   first and second images to update with new images taken by the camera in the user's
   smartphone. Here, the first image was successfully uploaded and the second image failed to
   upload. In some embodiments, the user can determine as part of the settings how often and
10 how many times the system should attempt to upload the image. This screen also allows the
   user to add additional photos by clicking the add button in the lower left.
            Figure 3U shows screen 251 which allows the user to reorder the sequence of the
   pictures.   This screen shows the user successfully reordering the photos. The user can
15 confirm these changes by clicking the done button in the upper right-hand corner.
            Figure 3V shows screen 252 which allows the users to reorder the sequence of the
   pictures. Here, the user is able to select the highlighted picture corresponding to number two,
   and drag that up so that picture number two becomes the first picture in the list, and the
20 former picture number one becomes the second picture in the list. The user will continue this
   process until the photos are in the desired order, then the user will click the update button in
   the upper right corner.
            Figure 3W shows screen 253 which allows the user to view the order history for
25 products placed. The orders may be sorted as completed, in progress, or saved orders to be
   added later. The user may also do a text search for property information in the search box at
   the top.
            Figure 3X shows screen 254 which shows the three properties with completed orders.
30
   Three Dimensional Models
            Figures 4A-4E are examples of property estimation and inspection methods and
   systems that run on smartphone or tablet devices that allow users to build, update, and use
   three-dimensional models of one or more buildings on a property. In some cases these three
35 dimensional models appear as wireframes, and may be used in conjunction with photos,

                                                   18
   report results data, customer or user annotations, and data from any other source that may
   be related to the associated property.
           There are a number of advantages for working with three-dimensional models of
 5 buildings associated with the property. A user, which may be a contractor, can easily interact
   with the customer at the building location to help the customer choose a feature for the
   structure, such as a certain type of siding for the walls of the structure, or type of shingles for
   the roof. The contractor can select and apply examples of how the materials would appear
   on the structure, and then allow the customer to rotate the structure to see how the material
10 would appear at different angles. The advantage for both the customer and the contractor is
   a quicker decision from the customer that matches the customer's tastes. In another example,
   an inspector or estimator will be able to take a tablet, walk around a property, and annotate
   features of a building to make notes that may affect repair or insurance estimates.            For
   example, an inspector may note bricks extending halfway up a wall. In another example, on
15 site inspectors may be able to fill in additional information to be included in the three
   dimensional model that could not be identified during the original analysis of the property
   using aerial images. For example, a tree may block a deck or a window from view on the side
   of a house that could not be seen without an on-site property inspection. In another example,
   an on-site inspector or estimator can make annotations on the three-dimensional model, such
20 as describing conditions of a particular area of a roof. A contractor may use this to show area
   of damage to a customer, or to describe to the customer how a proposed chimney, a
   proposed skylight, or a proposed room addition may appear in final form.
           Figure 4A shows screen 255 which displays a three-dimensional wireframe rendering
25 of a complex roof of a home. The three-dimensional model from which this wireframe is
   rendered may have come from a roof report from EagleView Technologies, Inc. that was
   ordered by a user using the property manager system on a smartphone device. The model
   information may have come from other sources or multiple sources, including updates to
   three-dimensional model made by the tablet user when inspecting the property location. In
30 this embodiment, the wireframe may be rotated using the pivot tool in the center of the
   diagram, zoomed in using the magnifying glass, or rotated in the third direction by using the
   up arrow with the side cross arrow through it. In addition, because this is part of the property
   management system, a customer can place a new order for a product by clicking the new
   order button, can look at the my properties information associated with the user, review
35 orders, or change settings as described above.

                                                    19
           Figure 4B shows screen 256 which differs from screen 255 in that a higher resolution
   for the wireframe image is used.
           Figure 4C shows screen 257 which displays a top-down view of the three-dimensional
 5 model of the house shown in screen 256.           Here, the image can be rotated clockwise or
   counterclockwise.
           Figure 4D shows screen 258 that describes an embodiment                  of a property
   management system on a tablet that is showing an order for an EagleView roof report that
10 has been processed and delivered to the tablet. The report includes the address of the
   property listed in the upper left, with a current image of the property immediately below the
   address. This image shows damage to the property that needs to be repaired. The right side
   of the report contains details such as order number claim number area of roof and so on. The
   lower right includes photos and graphical representations of the property.
15
           Here, the user can add their own photos to associate with the property, select specific
   photos to be added to the roof report that is created for the property, view the property as a
   PDF document, or view the annotatable three-dimensional model of the building on the
   property.
20
           Figure 4E shows screen 259 which is an example of a three-dimensional wireframe
   model exported to other software systems, in this case by TurboViewer.
           Figures 5A-5L are examples of another embodiment of a property management
25 system on a smartphone that allows editing and annotation to photos.
           Figure 5A shows screen 260 which shows an initial property management system
   screen allowing a user to either sign in, or create a new account.
30         Figure 5B shows screen 261 which allows the logged-in user to either create a new
   property entry to look at the user's existing properties, or to adjust settings.
           Figure 5C shows screen 262 which is displayed when a user selects the new property
   button of screen 261 to create a new property entry. The user is asked to provide a name and
35 address for the property, or optionally to use the current GPS location of the smartphone as
   the address. The user is also able to add photos which may be taken using this camera in the

                                                    20
   smartphone, or added from existing images. Users are also able to order reports, such as a
   roof report from EagleView Technologies, Inc. by selecting the order report button. To make
   the change, the user selects the save button at the lower left.
 5          Figure 5D shows screen 263 which is displayed when the user selects the "my
   properties" button from screen 261. A list of properties is displayed including the property
   name, address, date related to the property, and thumbnail of the property to the left of the
   property name. In addition, additional files, and annotations may be added to the property by
   selecting the buttons immediately below the property address.
10
            Figure 5E shows screen 264 which displays the "Edit Property" screen to screen
   identifies the property name, property address, and options which may be used to edit or
   annotate the property. In this example, the user has the option to view or edit photos, view or
   edit the report, or add additional photos. The user clicks the save button in the lower left side
15 to save edits made with the property.
            Figure 5F shows screen 265 used to edit report photos when the user has selected
   the view/edit report icon in screen 264. The screen shows a list of images associated with the
   property that the user may select to add to the generated report. The user also has the
20 option to add additional photos which can be taken from the smartphone camera, or taken
   from images already available.
            Figure 5G shows screen 266 which allows the user to reorder the selected photos to
   be associated with the report.
25
            Figure 5H shows screen 267 which is displayed when the user selects the view/edit
   photos button in screen 264.        This presents the photo editor component of the property
   management system. The photo editor gives a user the ability to modify, annotate, highlight,
   or add notes to a photo to enable the photo to more accurately describe a condition or
30 situation related to the property. In one embodiment the photo editor uses utilities grouped
   under the "tools", "effects", "finger draw", and "notes".
            Figure 51 shows screen 268 which is displayed when the user selects the tools button
   on the lower part of the screen. Tools include a square indicator which can be used to drag
35 and drop a square on the image to highlight a particular area of the image, an arrow which
   can be used to point to a particular feature on an image to highlight the feature, an "X" that

                                                   21
   can be used to place an "X" on the image to identify or highlight a feature, a water drop to
   show areas of water damage, or a text box to place text directly on the screen.
            Figure 5J shows screen 269 which is displayed when the effects button is selected.
 5 This allows the brightness in the contrast of the image to be adjusted to make the image
   easier to view if it was photographed in harsh light, such as in the early morning.
            Figure 5K shows screen 270 which is displayed when the user selects the finger draw
   to this tool allows the user to highlight areas of interest by drawing a line around the area
10 using the user's finger.
            Figure 5L shows screen 271 which is displayed when the user selects the notes
   button. When selected, a keyboard is displayed that allows the user to enter in extended
   amounts of text describing features or damage to the area being viewed. This text is not
15 displayed on the image, but is rather associated with the image and available for later
   viewing.
            Figure 6 shows screen 272 which is displayed when the user selects the inspection
   tool, which in one embodiment shows a top-down image of the building and allows a user to
20 make annotations regarding the features and conditions of different areas of the structure. In
   one or more embodiments, this data is collected from two-dimensional or three-dimensional
   models that are captured in reports received by the property management system on the
   smartphone. In one example, the data from the reports received may be from an EagleView
   Technologies, Inc. roof report or walls report.
25
            In some      embodiments,   annotations   may include     capturing or     adding voice
   commentary, either as a running commentary or as part of the data package that is tied or
   tagged to a marker or indicator that is placed on a model or associated with a model.
30         This inspection tool has many advantages. For example, for an insurance claim
   adjuster in the field, the adjuster can use this tool to update the model of the building to
   represent additions to the building that did not appear in the model. The adjuster can also use
   this model for described damage done by hail, fire, or other disaster. Data needed to repair
   the defect, for example the type of material, the amount of material required, and the like may
35 be represented on the diagram.       In some embodiments, the materials may be able to be
   ordered directly from the screen using pricing estimator models.

                                                   22
            Insurance underwriters may also use this tool to either augment or verify the risk
   management analysis of the property when determining insurability or premium amounts. For
   example, location of fire hydrants may be out of date or hard to see from aerial images. The
 5 existence and location of fire hydrants can be easily added using this tool.
            In this embodiment, the user may identify different facets or areas of the structure, for
   example areas X, V, U and the like on the drawing to identify the facet or to associate related
   facets with each other. The user may also place pushpin icons in different areas on the
10 structure to identify damage, or other features the user wishes to call out. In addition, the
   user can attach additional photos to this model, by using the camera within the tablet device
   or by associating an existing image with the model. In some embodiments, information can
   be retrieved by touching different areas of the image. For example, the user can tap a facet
   on the model to get information on that facet such as square footage or pitch.
15
            Finally, the user is able to record conclusions based on the on-site inspection work
   done at the represented building.
   Pitch Determination
20          Figures 2Y-2AA, and Figures 7-13 describe systems and methods for determining the
   pitch of an object using a smartphone. For roofing contractors and other related trades that
   use the slope of a roof, a convenient, accurate assessment of the pitch angle of a section of
   roof is important. The ability to assess pitch using a mobile device like a smartphone or tablet
   computer while standing on the ground offers a faster, safer, and more convenient alternative
25 to climbing onto the roof or scaling a ladder to directly assess a sloped section of a roof using
   mechanical or electronic pitch gauges that require physical contact with the measured
   surface.
            One method to determine the pitch of an object uses the smartphone device in the
30 capacity of a carpenter's level to directly measure pitch. Figure 2Y shows one embodiment to
   determine the pitch of an object by placing the smartphone device at the desired pitch angle,
   and pressing the measure pitch button as shown. In this example, a level module determines
   the angle of the smartphone device by using the accelerometer data and orientation sensors
   within the smartphone to determine the angle of the smartphone in relation to level. In some
35 embodiments, the smartphone device may be held against an angled rafter to determine its

                                                   23
   angle from level. Figure 2Z shows one embodiment where the angle measurement is
   displayed on the smartphone device as a pitch value.
            Figure 2AA shows another embodiment where the output of a pitch value for a facet of
 5 a building may be directly imported as a pitch measurement associated with a facet of the
   building that is represented in a two dimensional or three-dimensional model of the building.
           Another embodiment of the method to determine the pitch of an object is based on
   using the smartphone device as a video-based carpenter's level as above. However, the
10 actual smartphone device is not used as a physical carpenter's level. Instead, a fixed
   projected horizontal line is displayed on the smartphone camera display screen. The
   projected horizontal line stays fixed relative to the smartphone device, even though images
   on the camera display will move as the camera moves. To determine the pitch of one side of
   a gable of a house, the user stands away from the house, points the smartphone camera at
15 the house to see the side of the gable to be measured within the camera's field of view. The
   user then rotates the smartphone until the projected horizontal line appears to be parallel to
   the side of the gable to be measured. This method uses the smartphone device's orientation
   sensors to determine the angle of the smartphone device and the resulting pitch of the gable.
   The accuracy of this method is improved as the user stands further away from the object to
20 be measured.
           Another method for determining the pitch of an object uses the smartphone device to
   capture an image and other optional metadata such as device orientation and information,
   and GPS location, and then draw markers on the image that overlay the surfaces where the
25 pitch is to be determined. Figure 7 shows a context diagram showing positions and angles
   for the disclosed method. A user with a smartphone 302 stands at a distance "d" 304 from a
   wall 314 to determine the angle of the rake 316 of the roof of the structure. The ground-level
   is represented by 312. Line 306 represents the level line between the smartphone 303 to the
   vertical line 320 passing through point A 318 of the structure. Line 308 represents the angle
30 at which the smartphone 303 is being held in relation to Horizontal Line 306.
            Figure 1OB shows an example of a photo of a house taken with a smartphone camera,
   where the house has a gable feature 328. Figure 12 shows an embodiment of a scissor
   marker that is a composite of two linear shapes formed by the line from point 330 to point
35 332, and the line from point 330 to 334, that visually present two angled surfaces commonly
   found on gables and gabled dormers 328. When applying this method of determining pitch,

                                                  24
   either a live image as seen on the smartphone camera display may be used, or a captured
   image may be used.
            Figure 11 shows an example of a scissor marker within frame 328.330 represents the
 5 top of the scissor marker which is typically placed at the vertex of the angle to be measured,
   for example the top peak of the gable structure. Moving point 330 will translate the entire
   marker either up or down on the image while leaving the angle of the scissor marker constant.
   To open or close the scissor marker, the user moves either point 332 or point 334 in the
   direction of the arrows shown, which changes the opening angle of the scissor marker.
10
            Figure 12 shows three different examples 336, 338, and 340 that show how the
   smartphone's orientation sensor can be used to maintain a proper vertical orientation of the
   scissor marker in a live image. This way, the user does not need to worry about the
   orientation of the smartphone in their hand, whether it is in portrait 336, landscape 340 or a
15 skewed orientation mode 338 in between. When dealing with a live image on the camera, the
   camera can be moved until marker 330 is visually over the apex of the gable 328 to be
   measured. In that embodiment, the scissor marker may be fixed to a position on the screen
   such that the user can manipulate the opening angle, but cannot translate the marker's
   position. The user manipulates the orientation of the smartphone, thereby manipulating the
20 displayed image under the marker. Once the appropriate section of the image is under the
   fixed position of the scissor marker, the opening angle of the marker can be modified to
   match the angles of the underlying roof image.
            For a captured image, Figure 8 shows an embodiment where the orientation metadata
25 captured with the image provides context by which the proper vertical orientation can be
   achieved. The scissor marker may be translated around the screen, by selecting 330 and
   moving it until it is visually over the apex of the gable 318.        In one embodiment, this
   movement can be accomplished by the user touching marker 330 with a finger and dragging
   it to the proper location over the image.  Likewise, the opening angle between the two linear
30 shapes can be similarly adjusted by moving 332 and 334, either symmetrically or
   independently, to cause their corresponding lines that connect with 330 to overlay the edge of
   the gable image to be measured.
            A scissor marker may exist in a number of embodiments.          In one embodiment, a
35 simple version is a half-scissor, for example consisting of a vertical reference and one
   adjustable arm.     In another embodiment a more complex version may be a scissor that

                                                   25
   includes a third axes pointing orthogonal to the plane of the scissor. In this example, such a
   device could be used to orient and/or rotate the scissor cursor about the z-axis to
   compensate for an angle between the viewer and the gabled face. In another embodiment,
   the scissor curser allows the user to slide the apex of the cursor along that third axes, for
 5 example to tilt the plane of the scissor to access the pitch of a hipped face.
            In the above embodiments describing pitch determination, additional accuracy can be
   achieved by making corrections of perceived pitch due to the position of the smartphone's
   angle of observation. As the user approaches the building of interest, the horizontal distance
10 from the user's mobile phone 303 to the gable as distance "d"304 becomes smaller and the
   projection of the gable within the image will appear to "flatten out," and reduce the perceived
   pitch angle of the gable. This effect is illustrated in Figures 9A and 98. By determining the
   angle "alpha," found in Figure 7 between 306 and 310, the perceived pitch of the aligned pitch
   determination marker can be corrected to yield the correct pitch value. To determine angle
15 "alpha," the smartphone's orientation sensors are used to capture the inclination of the
   smartphone device "phi", the angle of the "normal" vector 308 coming out of the camera with
   respect to the ground 306, either at the time of image capture by the smartphone or in real
   time when viewing a live image using the smartphone camera.               Using the approximate
   knowledge of the angular field of view of the smartphone camera, the angle "beta", the angle
20 between 308 and 310 is calculated using the pixel displacement of the location of the apex of
   the pitch determination marker 330 (in Figure 8) that overlays Point A 318 (in Figure 7) from
   the pixel located at the center of the image at Point B. The sum of the angle "beta" and the
   angle "phi" yields the desired value for the angle "alpha."
25          Figure 13 describes another embodiment of the method for determining pitch, where
   the apex 318 of a gabled roof section is aligned with an active region 346. This active region
   may be identified as a dashed circle 346 that appears on the camera display of smartphone
   303. In one or more embodiments this active region 346 may be moved by selecting and
   dragging it on a still frame of an image. The active region 346 may also be in a fixed position
30 within a live image such that the user must move the smartphone camera to translate the
   desired roof apex in the live image under the active region.        Once the active region is in
   position, computer vision algorithms which in one or more embodiments involve edge
   algorithms or boundary detection algorithms are used to assess the opening angle of the
   gable 328 and report its respective pitch value.        In one or more embodiments, a pitch
35 determination marker value is displayed, along with a highlight on the image to show the
   identified edges used to determine the pitch.

                                                    26
            The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further
   embodiments. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application publications, U.S. patent
   applications, foreign patents, foreign patent applications and non-patent publications referred
 5 to in this specification and/or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by
   reference, in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified, if necessary to
   employ concepts of the various patents, applications and publications to provide yet further
   embodiments.
10          These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the above
   detailed description.
            In general, in the following claims, the terms used should not be construed to limit the
   claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims, but should
15 be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to
   which such claims are entitled. Accordingly, the claims are not limited by the disclosure.
            In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
20 word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
             A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is
25 not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that the
   information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of
   any of the claims.

                                                   27
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.     One or more non-transitory computer readable medium storing a set of
   computer executable instructions for running on one or more computer systems that when
 5 executed cause the one or more computer systems to:
           identify a geographic location of a structure;
           determine a pitch of a roof of the structure by analyzing one or more image showing
   the roof, at least one of the one or more image showing the roof obtained with a user device;
   and
10         generate a report for determination        of an amount of materials needed for a
   construction project, wherein the report includes at least one image showing the structure and
   an estimated roofing area of the roof.
           2.      The computing systems of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed,
15 cause the one or more computer systems to use a current location of the user device to
   identify the geographic location of the structure.
           3.      The computing systems of claim 2, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to present an interactive map of the current location
20 of the user device on the user device and a user selects the structure by marking the
   structure with an indicator.
           4.      The computing systems of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to use the one or more images of the structure to
25 generate a three-dimensional model of the structure.
           5.      The computing systems of claim 4, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to include a representation of the three-dimensional
   model in the report.
30
           6.      The computing systems of claim 4, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to allow a user to show representative building
   materials applied to the three-dimensional model.
35         7.      The computing systems of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to determine the pitch of the roof by analyzing a

                                                   28
   combination of at least one image obtained with the user device and at least one aerial
   image.
           8.      One or more non-transitory computer readable medium storing a set of
 5 computer executable instructions for running on one or more computer systems that when
   executed cause the one or more computer systems to:
           identify a geographic location of a structure;
           generate a three-dimensional model of the structure by analyzing one or more image
   showing the structure, at least one of the one or more image showing the structure obtained
10 with a user device; and
           generate a report for determination of an amount of materials needed for a
   construction project, wherein the report includes at least one image showing the structure and
   an estimated area for the construction project.
15         9.      The computing systems of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to use a current location of the user device to
   identify the geographic location of the structure.
            10.    The computing systems of claim 9, wherein the instructions, when executed,
20 cause the one or more computer systems to present an interactive map of the current location
   of the user device on the user device and a user selects the structure by marking the
   structure with an indicator.
            11.    The computing systems of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed,
25 cause the one or more computer systems to include a representation of the three-dimensional
   model in the report.
            12.    The computing systems of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to allow a user to show representative building
30 materials applied to the three-dimensional model.
            13.    The computing systems of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed,
   cause the one or more computer systems to generate the three-dimensional model of the
   structure by analyzing a combination of at least one image obtained with the user device and
35 at least one aerial image.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
