      GAME PERFORMANCE DETERMINATION BY INCREMENTAL REVENUE
                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
5         Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of determining the
  performance of a gaming device by analyzing the incremental revenue generated by the
  gaming device.    This method may include identifying an analysis period, recording game
  performance data for a set of gaming devices and a test gaming device during the analysis
  period, and comparing the recorded data to historical gaming data for the set of gaming devices.
0 Some examples of this method may also include developing parameters for the analysis period
  and using those developed parameters to normalize the recorded game data for the analysis
  period prior to comparing the recorded data to the historical gaming data.
5

                Attorney Docket No. 1351-0137/Application No. Filed Herewith
                                           6/9
   72      73               70                                               70
                                                     EGM       EGM
                           EGM      EGM
   1Bank                                                  Controller         60
                                                                                Network
                                                                     EGM
                                         Elec/
                                       Optical             63
62         Internet                   Converter
                                                   64                75
            Personal                   Optical/
           Computer                      Elec              65
       611                            Converter
                                                                                 S re
             74       F
                                                                                   8
                       EGM
                                                        Database
                        71
                                     FIG. 3

                                                 TITLE
 5                   "Game Performance Determination by Incremental Revenue"
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "comprise" and variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be
 0 understood to imply the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion
   of any other integer or group of integers.
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "include" and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be understood
   to imply the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
 5 other integer or group of integers.
                                          TECHNICAL FIELD
            This disclosure relates generally to determining game performance data of gaming
   devices, and more particularly to determining game performance data of gaming devices
 O using an analysis of the incremental revenue received with the gaming devices.
                                         BACKGROUND ART
            Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
   information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for the
25 purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is
   not an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the common
   general knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the priority date of the application
   in relation to which this specification has been filed.
   Casinos typically strive to have games that appeal to their customer base of players. One way
30 to quantify customer enjoyment is by measuring the performance of each gaming device to
   ascertain which devices players prefer to play. From a slot manufacturing standpoint, game
   performance measurements or metrics enable these companies to design games that have
   features that are popular or preferred by players. These measurements have typically been
                                                     1

   limited to tracking the coin-in for electronic gaming devices and bets received for table
   games. Once these measurements have been collected for each gaming device, each gaming
   device is compared against a "house average" to determine if the gaming device has been
   popular with players.
 5         For table games, these type of performance measurements usually only reveal broad
   trends such as differences in table denominations or differences in types of table games since
   the actual game from one similar table to another is largely identical. For electronic gaming
   devices, however, these performance numbers are often used to determine which games to
   buy, where to place certain games on the game floor, and how to configure certain game
 0 aspects.
           One significant issue with simply comparing a games performance to the "house
   average" is that these numbers don't often accurately reflect the true value of a game. The
   house average is simply the total winnings of the house or casino for a group of gaming
   devices divided by the number of gaming devices. If a certain game often earns more than
 5 the house average, it is typically considered a successful game, while games that earn below
   the house average are generally regarded as less valuable. While comparisons to the house
   average may reflect how popular a game is relative to other games in the vicinity, it doesn't
   always reflect the games influence on overall casino revenue. For example, if Game A does
   three times the house average over the span of a week, but draws players from other games in
 O the casino while Game B does only half of the house average but brings in entirely new
   players, which game is really more valuable to the casino? Obviously Game A is popular,
   but it doesn't help the overall casino revenue. On the other hand, Game B, although not as
   popular as Game A, is bringing in entirely new players and additional revenue from those
   new players. Thus, what is needed is a way to capture a games value to the casino instead of
25 merely judging its relative popularity.
                                     SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   In accordance with one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of measuring
   performance of a new gaming feature in a game property having a plurality of existing
30 gaming devices, the method comprising:
   determining an average revenue for the existing gaming devices in a game property;
                                                    2

    implementing the new feature, the new feature associated with a least a portion of the existing
    gaming devices;
    determining revenue for the game property after the new feature is implemented;
    scaling the determined revenue of the game property with the implemented new feature; and
 5          comparing the determined average revenue for the game property with the determined
    revenue for the game property with the implemented new feature.
            The new feature may be a mystery bonus system associated with a portion of the
    existing gaming devices.
            The game property may be a game floor of a casino.
 0          Scaling the determined revenue of the game property with the implemented new
    feature may include applying a scaling factor to the determined revenue.
            The scaling factor may include a numerical multiplier associated with at least one of a
    holiday occurrence, a convention occurrence, a time of year, an identification determination
    of a player, a location of the implemented feature, a day of the week, a state of the economy,
 5  or an amount of promotion given to the feature.
            Determining an average revenue for the existing gaming devices in a game property
    may include:
    obtaining coin-in data for the existing gaming devices over a predetermined period; and
    averaging the obtained coin-in data for the existing gaming devices.
 10         In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a gaming
    system comprising:
    a plurality of existing gaming devices;
    a server connected to the plurality of gaming device through a network, the server configured
    to record game data associated with the connected gaming devices; and
25  a new gaming device connected to the server though the network,
    wherein the server is further configured to compare data from the plurality of existing gaming
    devices measured over a first period with data from the new gaming device and the plurality
    of existing gaming devices measured over a second period.
            In one embodiment, the first and second periods may be first and second time periods.
30          In another embodiment, the first and second periods may be first and second event
    periods.
                                                    3

            The server may be further configured to normalize the data from the first and second
    periods.
            The server may be configured to normalize the data from the first and second periods
    by applying a scaling factor to at least one of the first and second periods.
 5
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to
    the accompanying drawings, in which:
            FIG. 1A is a functional block diagram that illustrates a gaming device according to
 0  embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. lB is an isometric view of the gaming device illustrated in FIG. 1A.
            FIGs. 2A, 2B, and 2C are detail diagrams of exemplary types of gaming devices
    according to embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 3 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
 5  embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 4 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
    embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring game performance according to
    embodiments of the invention.
 10         FIG. 6 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring incremental revenue associated with
    player statistics according to embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 7 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring incremental revenue associated with
    property statistics according to embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 8 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring incremental revenue associated with
25  combination of statistics according to embodiments of the invention.
                              DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            FIGs. 1A and lB illustrate example gaming devices according to embodiments of the
    invention.
30          Referring to FIGs. lA and 1B, a gaming device 10 is an electronic gaming machine.
    Although an electronic gaming machine or "slot" machine is illustrated, various other types of
    devices may be used to wager monetarily based credits on a game of chance in accordance with
                                                     4

   principles of the invention. The term "electronic gaming device" is meant to include various
   devices such as electro-mechanical spinning-reel type slot machines, video slot machines, and
   video poker machines, for instance. Other gaming devices may include computer-based
   gaming machines, wireless gaming devices, multi-player gaming stations, modified personal
 5 electronic gaming devices (such as cell phones), personal computers, server-based gaming
   terminals, and other similar devices. Although embodiments of the invention will work with all
   of the gaming types mentioned, for ease of illustration the present embodiments will be
   described in reference to the electronic gaming machine 10 shown in FIGs. 1A and 1B.
            The gaming device 10 includes a cabinet 15 housing components to operate the gaming
 0 device 10. The cabinet 15 may include a gaming display 20, a base portion 13, a top box 18,
   and a player interface panel 30. The gaming display 20 may include mechanical spinning reels
   (FIG. 2A), a video display (FIGs. 2B and 2C), or a combination of both spinning reels and a
   video display (not shown). The gaming cabinet 15 may also include a credit meter 27 and a
   coin-in or bet meter 28. The credit meter 27 may indicate the total number of credits remaining
 5 on the gaming device 10 that are eligible to be wagered. In some embodiments, the credit
   meter 27 may reflect a monetary unit, such as dollars. However, it is often preferable to have
   the credit meter 27 reflect a number of 'credits,' rather than a monetary unit. The bet meter 28
   may indicate the amount of credits to be wagered on a particular game. Thus, for each game,
   the player transfers the amount that he or she wants to wager from the credit meter 27 to the bet
 0 meter 28. In some embodiments, various other meters may be present, such as meters
   reflecting amounts won, amounts paid, or the like. In embodiments where the gaming display
   20 is a video monitor, the information indicated on the credit meters may be shown on the
   gaming display itself 20 (FIG. 2B).
            The base portion 13 may include a lighted panel 14, a coin return (not shown), and a
25 gaming handle 12 operable on a partially rotating pivot joint 11. The game handle 12 is
   traditionally included on mechanical spinning-reel games, where the handle may be pulled
   toward a player to initiate the spinning of reels 22 after placement of a wager. The top box 18
   may include a lighted panel 17, a video display (such as an LCD monitor), a mechanical bonus
   device (not shown), and a candle light indicator 19. The player interface panel 30 may include
30 various devices so that a player can interact with the gaming device 10.
            The player interface panel 30 may include one or more game buttons 32 that can be
   actuated by the player to cause the gaming device 10 to perform a specific action. For example,
                                                     5

    some of the game buttons 32 may cause the gaming device 10 to bet a credit to be wagered
    during the next game, change the number of lines being played on a multi-line game, cash out
    the credits remaining on the gaming device (as indicated on the credit meter 27), or request
    assistance from casino personnel, such as by lighting the candle 19. In addition, the player
 5  interface panel 30 may include one or more game actuating buttons 33. The game actuating
    buttons 33 may initiate a game with a pre-specified amount of credits. On some gaming
    devices 10 a "Max Bet" game actuating button 33 may be included that places the maximum
    credit wager on a game and initiates the game. The player interface panel 30 may further
    include a bill acceptor 37 and a ticket printer 38. The bill acceptor 37 may accept and validate
 0  paper money or previously printed tickets with a credit balance. The ticket printer 38 may print
    out tickets reflecting the balance of the credits that remain on the gaming device 10 when a
    player cashes out by pressing one of the game buttons 32 programmed to cause a 'cashout.'
    These tickets may be inserted into other gaming machines or redeemed at a cashier station or
    kiosk for cash.
 5          The gaming device 10 may also include one or more speakers 26 to transmit auditory
    information or sounds to the player. The auditory information may include specific sounds
    associated with particular events that occur during game play on the gaming device 10. For
    example, a particularly festive sound may be played during a large win or when a bonus is
    triggered. The speakers 26 may also transmit "attract" sounds to entice nearby players when
 '0 the game is not currently being played.
            The gaming device 10 may further include a secondary display 25.      This secondary
    display 25 may be a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a
    cathode ray tube (CRT), a plasma screen, or the like. The secondary display 25 may show any
    combination of primary game information and ancillary information to the player. For
25  example, the secondary display 25 may show player tracking information, secondary bonus
    information, advertisements, or player selectable game options.
            The gaming device 10 may include a separate information window (not shown)
    dedicated to supplying any combination of information related to primary game play,
    secondary bonus information, player tracking information, secondary bonus information,
30  advertisements or player selectable game options. This window may be fixed in size and
    location or may have its size and location vary temporally as communication needs change.
    One example of such a resizable window is International Game Technology's "service
                                                       6

    window". Another example is Las Vegas Gaming Incorporated's retrofit technology which
    allows information to be placed over areas of the game or the secondary display screen at
    various times and in various situations.
             The gaming device 10 includes a microprocessor 40 that controls operation of the
 5  gaming device 10. If the gaming device 10 is a standalone gaming device, the microprocessor
    40 may control virtually all of the operations of the gaming devices and attached equipment,
    such as operating game logic stored in memory (not shown) as firmware, controlling the
    display 20 to represent the outcome of a game, communicating with the other peripheral
    devices (such as the bill acceptor 37), and orchestrating the lighting and sound emanating from
 0  the gaming device 10. In other embodiments where the gaming device 10 is coupled to a
    network 50, as described below, the microprocessor 40 may have different tasks depending on
    the setup and function of the gaming device. For example, the microprocessor 40 may be
    responsible for running the base game of the gaming device and executing instructions received
    over the network 50 from a bonus server or player tracking server. In a server-based gaming
 5  setup, the microprocessor 40 may act as a terminal to execute instructions from a remote server
    that is running game play on the gaming device.
             The microprocessor 40 may be coupled to a machine communication interface (MCI)
    42 that connects the gaming device 10 to a gaming network 50. The MCI 42 may be coupled to
    the microprocessor 40 through a serial connection, a parallel connection, an optical connection,
 '0 or in some cases a wireless connection. The gaming device 10 may include memory 41
    (MEM), such as a random access memory (RAM), coupled to the microprocessor 40 and
    which can be used to store gaming information, such as storing total coin-in statistics about a
    present or past gaming session, which can be communicated to a remote server or database
    through the MCI 42. The MCI 42 may also facilitate communication between the network 50
25  and the secondary display 25 or a player tracking unit 45 housed in the gaming cabinet 15.
             The player tracking unit 45 may include an identification device 46 and one or more
    buttons 47 associated with the player tracking unit 45. The identification device 46 serves to
    identify a player, by, for example, reading a player-tracking device, such as a player tracking
    card that is issued by the casino to individual players who choose to have such a card. The
30  identification device 46 may instead, or additionally, identify players through other methods.
    Player tracking systems using player tracking cards and card readers 46 are known in the art.
    Briefly summarizing such a system, a player registers with the casino prior to commencing
                                                     7

    gaming. The casino issues a unique player-tracking card to the player and opens a
    corresponding player account that is stored on a server or host computer, described below
    with reference to FIG. 3. The player account may include the player's name and mailing
    address and other information of interest to the casino in connection with marketing efforts.
 5  Prior to playing one of the gaming devices in the casino, the player inserts the player tracking
    card into the identification device 46 thus permitting the casino to track player activity, such
    as amounts wagered, credits won, and rate of play.
             To induce the player to use the card and be an identified player, the casino may award
    each player points proportional to the money or credits wagered by the player. Players
 0  typically accrue points at a rate related to the amount wagered, although other factors may
    cause the casino to award the player various amounts. The points may be displayed on the
    secondary display 25 or using other methods. In conventional player tracking systems, the
    player may take his or her card to a special desk in the casino where a casino employee scans
    the card to determine how many accrued points are in the player's account. The player may
 5  redeem points for selected merchandise, meals in casino restaurants, or the like, which each
    have assigned point values. In some player tracking systems, the player may use the secondary
    display 25 to access their player tracking account, such as to check a total number of points,
    redeem points for various services, make changes to their account, or download promotional
    credits to the gaming device 10. In other embodiments, the identification device 46 may read
 '0 other identifying cards (such as driver licenses, credit cards, etc.) to identify a player and match
    them to a corresponding player tracking account. Although FIG. 1A shows the player tracking
    unit 45 with a card reader as the identification device 46, other embodiments may include a
    player tracking unit 45 with a biometric scanner, PIN code acceptor, or other methods of
    identifying a player to pair the player with their player tracking account.
25           A player typically plays the gaming device 10 by placing a wager and activating an
    input mechanism to initiate a game associated with the placed wager. As used herein, a
    gaming event refers to any activity that affects the calculation or display of a game outcome.
    Game events include interactions occurring between the gaming device 10, the player, and/or
    a connected game system. Example gaming events include a player inserting a player
30  account card in a gaming device, a double-pay bonus time period activation, a first spinning
    reel coming to a stop, a player's input to hold a card in a poker hand, etc. A game refers to
    the calculation and completion of one game outcome. That is, a game includes a single game
                                                      8

   cycle that begins with the initiation of the wagered upon game and ends with the completion
   of all activities relating to the wager placed including any intervening bonuses. In other
   words, a game encompasses all gaming events dependent on a placed wager during an
   initiated game including all amounts due the player that are paid directly by the gaming
 5 machine, or as a manual payment by casino personnel to the player playing that gaming
   machine. For example, if an item was awarded as a result of a wager that could be saved and
   used later, the game would encompass the awarding of the item, which is part of the game
   outcome, but not the later use of that item since the later use would affect a different game
   outcome. A game session refers to one or more played games. For example, a game session
 0 for a particular player may include each game played on a specific gaming device, each game
   played between insertions of money or credits, each game played between an initial money or
   credit insertion and a cash-out or zeroing out of credits, each game played during a casino
   stay, or each game played over a predetermined time period. Alternatively, game sessions
   may refer to games played by multiple players over a specified time period or event period
 5 with respect to a particular gaming device or group of gaming devices.
             The player may initially insert monetary bills or previously printed tickets with a
   credit value into the bill acceptor 37. The player may also put coins into a coin acceptor (not
   shown) or a credit, debit or casino account card into a card reader/authorizer (not shown). In
   other embodiments, stored player points or special 'bonus points' awarded to the player or
 O accumulated and/or stored in a player account may be able to be substituted at or transferred
   to the gaming device 10 for credits or other value. For example, a player may convert stored
   loyalty points to credits or transfer funds from his bank account, credit card, casino account
   or other source of funding. The selected source of funding may be selected by the player at
   time of transfer, determined by the casino at the time of transfer or occur automatically
25 according to a predefined selection process. One of skill in the art will readily see that this
   invention is useful with all gambling devices, regardless of the manner in which wager value
   input is accomplished.
             The credit meter 27 displays the numeric credit value of the money or other value
   inserted, transferred, or stored dependent on the denomination of the gaming device 10. That
30 is, if the gaming device 10 is a nickel slot machine and a $20 bill inserted into the bill
   acceptor 37, the credit meter will reflect 400 credits or one credit for each nickel of the
   inserted twenty dollars. For gaming devices 10 that support multiple denominations, the
                                                     9

    credit meter 27 will reflect the amount of credits relative to the denomination selected. Thus,
    in the above example, if a penny denomination is selected after the $20 is inserted the credit
    meter will change from 400 credits to 2000 credits.
             A wager may be placed by pushing one or more of the game buttons 32, which may
 5  be reflected on the bet meter 28. That is, the player can generally depress a "bet one" button
    (one of the buttons on the player interface panel 30, such as 32), which transfers one credit
    from the credit meter 27 to the bet meter 28. Each time the button 32 is depressed an
    additional single credit transfers to the bet meter 28 up to a maximum bet that can be placed
    on a single play of the electronic gaming device 10. The game may be initiated by pulling the
 0  gaming handle 12 or depressing the spin button 33. On some gaming devices 10, a "max bet"
    button (another one of the buttons 32 on the player interface panel 30) may be depressed to
    wager the maximum number of credits supported by the gaming device 10 and initiate a
    game.
             If the game does not result in any winning combination, the process of placing a
 5  wager may be repeated by the player. Alternatively, the player may cash out any remaining
    credits on the credit meter 27 by depressing the "cash-out" button (another button 32 on the
    player interface panel 30), which causes the credits on the credit meter 27 to be paid out in
    the form of a ticket through the ticket printer 38, or may be paid out in the form of returning
    coins from a coin hopper (not shown) to a coin return tray.
 10          If instead a winning combination (win) appears on the display 20, the award
    corresponding to the winning combination is immediately applied to the credit meter 27. For
    example, if the gaming device 10 is a slot machine, a winning combination of symbols 23
    may land on a played payline on reels 22. If any bonus games are initiated, the gaming
    device 10 may enter into a bonus mode or simply award the player with a bonus amount of
25  credits that are applied to the credit meter 27.
             FIGs. 2A to 2C illustrate exemplary types of gaming devices according to embodiments
    of the invention. FIG. 2A illustrates an example spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA, FIG. 2B
    illustrates an example video slot machine 10B, and FIG. 2C illustrates an example video poker
    machine 10C.
30           Referring to FIG. 2A, a spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA includes a gaming display
    20A having a plurality of mechanical spinning reels 22A. Typically, spinning-reel gaming
    machines 1OA have three to five spinning reels 22A. Each of the spinning reels 22A has
                                                     10

    multiple symbols 23A that may be separated by blank areas on the spinning reels 22A, although
    the presence of blank areas typically depends on the number of reels 22A present in the gaming
    device 1OA and the number of different symbols 23A that may appear on the spinning reels
    22A. Each of the symbols 22A or blank areas makes up a "stop" on the spinning reel 22A
 5  where the reel 22A comes to rest after a spin. Although the spinning reels 22A of various
    games 1OA may have various numbers of stops, many conventional spinning-reel gaming
    devices 1 OA have reels 22A with twenty two stops.
            During game play, the spinning reels 22A may be controlled by stepper motors (not
    shown) under the direction of the microprocessor 40 (FIG. 1A). Thus, although the spinning
 0  reel gaming device 1OA has mechanical based spinning reels 22A, the movement of the reels
    themselves is electronically controlled to spin and stop. This electronic control is advantageous
    because it allows a virtual reel strip to be stored in the memory 41 of the gaming device 10A,
    where various "virtual stops" are mapped to each physical stop on the physical reel 22A. This
    mapping allows the gaming device 1OA to establish greater awards and bonuses available to the
 5  player because of the increased number of possible combinations afforded by the virtual reel
    strips.
            A game on a spinning reel slot machine 10A typically includes the player pressing the
    "bet-one" button (one of the game buttons 32A) to wager a desired number of credits followed
    by pulling the gaming handle 12 (FIGs. 1A, IB) or pressing the spin button 33A to spin the
 '0 reels 22A. Alternatively, the player may simply press the "max-bet" button (another one of the
    game buttons 32A) to both wager the maximum number of credits permitted and initiate the
    spinning of the reels 22A. The spinning reels 22A may all stop at the same time or may
    individually stop one after another (typically from left to right) to build player anticipation.
    Because the display 20A usually cannot be physically modified, some spinning reel slot
25  machines 1OA include an electronic display screen in the top box 18 (FIG. IB), a mechanical
    bonus mechanism in the top box 18, or a secondary display 25 (FIG. 1A) to execute a bonus.
            Referring to FIG. 2B, a video gaming machine 1OB may include a video display 20B to
    display virtual spinning reels 22B and various other gaming information 21B. The video
    display 20B may be a CRT, LCD, plasma screen, or the like. It is usually preferable that the
30  video display 20B be a touchscreen to accept player input. A number of symbols 23A appear
    on each of the virtual spinning reels 22B. Although FIG. 2B shows five virtual spinning reels
    22B, the flexibility of the video display 20B allows for various reel 22B and game
                                                       11

    configurations. For example, some video slot games 1OB spin reels for each individual symbol
    position (or stop) that appears on the video display 20B. That is, each symbol position on the
    screen is independent of every other position during the games. In these types of games, very
    large numbers of pay lines or multiple super scatter pays can be utilized since similar symbols
 5  could appear at every symbol position on the video display 20B. On the other hand, other
    video slot games 1OB more closely resemble the mechanical spinning reel games where
    symbols that are vertically adjacent to each other are part of the same continuous virtual
    spinning reel 22B.
             Because the virtual spinning reels 22B, by virtue of being computer implemented, can
 0  have almost any number of stops on a reel strip, it is much easier to have a greater variety of
    displayed outcomes as compared to spinning-reel slot machines 1OA (FIG. 2A) that have a
    fixed number of physical stops on each spinning reel 22A.
             With the possible increases in reel 22B numbers and configurations over the mechanical
    gaming device 10A, video gaming devices 1OB often have multiple paylines 24 that may be
 5  played. By having more paylines 24 available to play, the player may be more likely to have a
    winning combination when the reels 22B stop and the game ends. However, since the player
    typically must wager at least a minimum number of credits to enable each payline 24 to be
    eligible for winning, the overall odds of winning are not much different, if at all, than if the
    player is wagering only on a single payline. For example, in a five line game, the player may
 '0 bet one credit per payline 24 and be eligible for winning symbol combinations that appear on
    any of the five played paylines 24. This gives a total of five credits wagered and five possible
    winning paylines 24. If, on the other hand, the player only wagers one credit on one payline
    24, but plays five games, the odds of winning would be identical as above: five credits wagered
    and five possible winning paylines 24.
25           Because the video display 20B can easily modify the image output by the video display
    20B, bonuses, such as second screen bonuses are relatively easy to award on the video slot
    game 1OB. That is, if a bonus is triggered during game play, the video display 20B may simply
    store the resulting screen shot in memory and display a bonus sequence on the video display
    20B. After the bonus sequence is completed, the video display 20B may then retrieve the
30  previous screen shot and information from memory, and re-display that image.
             Also, as mentioned above, the video display 20B may allow various other game
    information 21B to be displayed. For example, as shown in FIG. 2B, banner information may
                                                     12

    be displayed above the spinning reels 22B to inform the player, perhaps, which symbol
    combination is needed to trigger a bonus. Also, instead of providing a separate credit meter 27
    (FIG. 1A) and bet meter 28, the same information can instead be displayed on the video display
    20B. In addition, "soft buttons" 29B such as a "spin" button or "help/see pays" button may be
 5  built using the touch screen video display 20B. Such customization and ease of changing the
    image shown on the display 20B adds to the flexibility of the game 1OB.
             Even with the improved flexibility afforded by the video display 20B, several physical
    buttons 32B and 33B are usually provided on video slot machines 1OB. These buttons may
    include game buttons 32B that allow a player to choose the number of paylines 24 he or she
 0  would like to play and the number of credits wagered on each payline 24. In addition, a max
    bet button (one of the game buttons 32B) allows a player to place a maximum credit wager on
    the maximum number of available paylines 24 and initiate a game. A repeat bet or spin button
    33B may also be used to initiate each game when the max bet button is not used.
             Referring to FIG. 2C, a video poker gaming device 1OC may include a video display
 5  20C that is physically similar to the video display 20B shown in FIG. 2B. The video display
    20C may show a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player information 21 C
    including a paytable for various winning hands, as well as a plurality of player selectable soft
    buttons 29C. The video display 20C may present a poker hand of five cards 23C and various
    other player information 21C including a number of player selectable soft (touch-screen)
 '0 buttons 29C and a paytable for various winning hands. Although the embodiment illustrated in
    FIG. 3C shows only one hand of poker on the video display 20C, various other video poker
    machines 1OC may show several poker hands (multi-hand poker). Typically, video poker
    machines 1OC play "draw" poker in which a player is dealt a hand of five cards, has the
    opportunity to hold any combination of those five cards, and then draws new cards to replace
25  the discarded ones. All pays are usually given for winning combinations resulting from the
    final hand, although some video poker games 1OC may give bonus credits for certain
    combinations received on the first hand before the draw. In the example shown in FIG. 2C a
    player has been dealt two aces, a three, a six, and a nine. The video poker game 1OC may
    provide a bonus or payout for the player having been dealt the pair of aces, even before the
30  player decides what to discard in the draw. Since pairs, three of a kind, etc. are typically
    needed for wins, a player would likely hold the two aces that have been dealt and draw three
    cards to replace the three, six, and nine in the hope of receiving additional aces or other cards
                                                      13

    leading to a winning combination with a higher award amount. After the draw and revealing of
    the final hand, the video poker game 1OC typically awards any credits won to the credit meter.
             The player selectable soft buttons 29C appearing on the screen respectively correspond
    to each card on the video display 20C. These soft buttons 29C allow players to select specific
 5  cards on the video display 20C such that the card corresponding to the selected soft button is
    "held" before the draw. Typically, video poker machines 1OC also include physical game
    buttons 32C that correspond to the cards in the hand and may be selected to hold a
    corresponding card. A deal/draw button 33C may also be included to initiate a game after
    credits have been wagered (with a bet button 32C, for example) and to draw any cards not held
 0  after the first hand is displayed.
             Although examples of a spinning reel slot machine 1OA, a video slot machine 1OB, and
    a video poker machine 1OC have been illustrated in FIGs. 2A-2C, gaming machines and
    various other types of gaming devices known in the art are contemplated and are within the
    scope of the invention.
 5           FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating networked gaming devices according to
    embodiments of the invention. Referring to FIG. 3, multiple electronic gaming devices
    (EGMs) 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75 may be coupled to one another and coupled to a remote
    server 80 through a network 50. For ease of understanding, gaming devices or EGMs 70, 71,
    72, 73, 74, and 75 are generically referred to as EGMs 70-75. The term EGMs 70-75, however,
 '0 may refer to any combination of one or more of EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75.
    Additionally, the gaming server 80 may be coupled to one or more gaming databases 90. These
    gaming network 50 connections may allow multiple gaming devices 70-75 to remain in
    communication with one another during particular gaming modes such as tournament play or
    remote head-to-head play. Although some of the gaming devices 70-75 coupled on the gaming
25  network 50 may resemble the gaming devices 10, 10A, 1OB, and 1OC shown in FIGs. lA-lB
    and 2A-2C, other coupled gaming devices 70-75 may include differently configured gaming
    devices. For example, the gaming devices 70-75 may include traditional slot machines 75
    directly coupled to the network 50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to the network 50,
    banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to the network through a bank controller 60, wireless
30  handheld gaming machines 72 and cell phones 73 coupled to the gaming network 50 through
    one or more wireless routers or antennas 61, personal computers 74 coupled to the network 50
    through the internet 62, and banks of gaming devices 71 coupled to the network through one or
                                                     14

    more optical connection lines 64. Additionally, some of the traditional gaming devices 70, 71,
    and 75 may include electronic gaming tables, multi-station gaming devices, or electronic
    components operating in conjunction with non-gaming components, such as automatic card
    readers, chip readers, and chip counters, for example.
 5           Gaming devices 71 coupled over an optical line 64 may be remote gaming devices in a
    different location or casino. The optical line 64 may be coupled to the gaming network 50
    through an electronic to optical signal converter 63 and may be coupled to the gaming devices
    71 through an optical to electronic signal converter 65. The banks of gaming devices 70
    coupled to the network 50 may be coupled through a bank controller 60 for compatibility
 0  purposes, for local organization and control, or for signal buffering purposes. The network 50
    may include serial or parallel signal transmission lines and carry data in accordance with data
    transfer protocols such as Ethernet transmission lines, Rs-232 lines, firewire lines, USB lines,
    or other communication protocols. Although not shown in FIG. 3, substantially the entire
    network 50 may be made of fiber optic lines or may be a wireless network utilizing a wireless
 5  protocol such as IEEE 802.11 a, b, g, or n, Zigbee, RF protocols, optical transmission, near
    field transmission, or the like.
             As mentioned above, each gaming device 70-75 may have an individual processor 40
    (FIG. 1A) and memory 41 to run and control game play on the gaming device 70-75, or some
    of the gaming devices 70-75 may be terminals that are run by a remote server 80 in a server
 '0 based gaming environment. Server based gaming environments may be advantageous to
    casinos by allowing fast downloading of particular game types or themes based on casino
    preference or player selection. Additionally, tournament based games, linked games, and
    certain game types, such as BINGO or keno may benefit from at least some server 80 based
    control.
25           Thus, in some embodiments, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be
    dedicated to communications regarding specific game or tournament play. In other
    embodiments, however, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be part of a player
    tracking network. For player tracking capabilities, when a player inserts a player tracking card
    in the card reader 46 (FIG. 1A), the player tracking unit 45 sends player identification
30  information obtained on the card reader 46 through the MCI 42 over the network 50 to the
    player tracking server 80, where the player identification information is compared to player
    information records in the player database 90 to provide the player with information regarding
                                                     15

   their player account or other features at the gaming device 10 where the player is wagering.
   Additionally, multiple databases 90 and/or servers 80 may be present and coupled to one or
   more networks 50 to provide a variety of gaming services, such as both game/tournament data
   and player tracking data.
 5          The various systems described with reference to FIGs 1-3 can be used in a number of
   ways. For instance, the systems can be used to track data about various players. The tracked
   data can be used by the casino to provide additional benefits to players, such as extra bonuses
   or extra benefits such as bonus games and other benefits as described above. These added
   benefits further entice the players to play at the casino that provides the benefits.
 0          As discussed above, it is often desirable to measure the value of a new game being
   introduced on a gaming floor. Conventional methods of simply comparing a game's
   performance against a house average provides limited information about the value of a new
   game because, as previously pointed out, the new game may simply be diverting players away
   from another game they would have otherwise played. As opposed to these conventional
 5 methods, embodiments of the present concept measure and analyze the incremental revenue
   associated with a new game or a new gaming feature to determine the value of the new game or
   feature. While the below embodiments may refer to a newly implemented game or a newly
   implemented feature, the principles discussed could be used for either as well as for other
   different aspects of gaming, such as gaming floor rearrangement, attraction implementation,
 0 entertainment bookings, casino promotions, etc.
            FIG. 4 illustrates a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
   embodiments of the invention.
            Referring to FIG. 4, a gaming system 100 includes a plurality of existing gaming
   devices 170 connected to a server 180 through a game network 150. The system 100 may also
25 include a database 190 that is connected to the server 180 or is part of the server 180. The
   existing gaming devices 170 may be any type of gaming device, such as the ones discussed
   above. Each of the existing gaming device 170 may be located in a gaming property or area
   195. The gaming property 195 is essentially an area that includes multiple gaming devices and
   may be defined, for example, as the entire game floor of a casino, a portion of the game floor in
30 a casino, or game floors from multiple related casinos. A new gaming device 175 is also
   connected to the server 180 through the game network 150 and is located as well in the gaming
   property 195. Although the implementation of a new gaming device 175 is discussed in this
                                                     16

    illustrated embodiment, the gaming system 100 may also be used to determine incremental
    revenue differences of a newly implemented feature or other gaming aspect.
             Here, however, incremental revenue determination methods will be used to measure
    and determine the desirability and value of the newly implemented gaming device 175. In
 5  analyzing incremental revenue, a base or historical value or set of values is preferably
    established in a period prior to obtaining performance measurements for the new gaming
    device 175 so that incremental differences in revenue generated during the measurement
    periods can be obtained. Some of the data that can be usefully used as base values currently
    exists on back-end accounting databases and player account databases. Even if does not
 0  currently exist, it is generally possible to modify these existing systems to record the necessary
    data for use in incremental revenue comparisons. These modifications may include modifying
    codified instructions to record and store additional data during predetermined periods.
    Although actual measured values are preferably retrieved to establish revenue performance of
    the game property 195, it is possible to use performance estimations and other techniques to
 5  provide a base value for use in incremental revenue comparison. An exemplary method of
    using incremental revenue analysis is shown in FIG. 5.
             FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring game performance according to
    embodiments of the invention.
             Referring to FIG. 5, a flow 200 begins by establishing base values in process (210). As
 '0 discussed above, base values are needed to later compare the performance of a new gaming
    device or new feature. The base values may be measured and/or estimated average coin-in data
    for a particular player, game device, or set of gaming devices. Alternatively, the base values
    may include time of play data, average loss per session, average size of currency used, average
    win data, etc. As mentioned above, the data used for these base values is often already stored
25  in conventional gaming systems and simply needs to be accessed and gathered. In process
    (212), a new gaming device or new gaming feature is implemented. A new gaming device may
    be a new gaming device, such as a new slot machine, video poker machine, or other electronic
    gaming device. The gaming device may be new in theme, style of play, feature availability, or
    a combination of these attributes. Alternatively, the value of a new feature may be desired.
30  Here, the new feature may be a new promotional bonus on a single gaming device, a multi
    game or bank bonus, a new available system advancement, a new player activity, or another
    type of gaming feature.
                                                      17

            Once the new gaming device or feature has been implemented, new values are recorded
   in process (214). These new values may also include average coin-in data for a particular
   player, game device, or set of gaming devices, or may include time of play data, average loss
   per session, average size of currency used, average win data, etc. The base values and new
 5 values are normalized in process (216). Normalization may be important so that like values can
   be later compared. For example, if coin-in data was previously recorded and averaged over a
   week for a game property, but a new gaming device has only been on the game property for
   four days, the coin-in data for the new measurements will have to be normalized to be
   accurately compared to the prior weekly coin-in data. Here, the newly recorded values may
 0 have to be multiplied by a factor of 1.75 (or seven divided by four). Normalizion is rarely as
   simple as this as one of skill in the art understands. For example, if two of the four days were
   Friday and Saturday, the multiplier could be significantly less than 1.75. If one or both of the
   data sets are already in the desired format for comparison, the normalization step may simply
   be skipped or the normalization may be carried out by simply multiplying the data by 1.0,
 5 which does not effectively alter the data. The normalized new values are then compared to the
   normalized base values in process (218) to obtain the incremental revenue attributable to the
   new gaming device. For example, if the coin-in values for a particular player, a group of
   players, or for the game property as a whole increases, this incremental increase may be
   attributable to the new gaming device or new gaming feature. The normalization steps in
 0 process (216) may take into account various factors that could skew the data due to external
   factors not related to the new gaming device. As discussed in more detail below, a table of
   scaling factors may be utilized during this normalization process (216) to account for identified
   external factors.
            FIG. 5 provides a broad overview of obtaining incremental data that may be useful in
25 gauging the value of a new gaming device or feature. However, various types of measured data
   from various sources may provide different levels of accuracy and even different results. Thus,
   different sources of measured data will be discussed below to provide a context of how
   example results may vary and may be utilized.
            When looking at sources of for data measurement, the easiest sources for obtaining and
30 comparing data are player-based sources and property-based sources. One reason that these
   sources particularly lend themselves to analysis is because historical data is generally already
   stored for these sources. For example, player account databases typically store coin-in and
                                                     18

   other information about previous gaming sessions for identified players. Similarly, back-end
   accounting systems typically store coin-in information and other data associated with the
   performance of a game property. Each of these sources will be analyzed in more detail below.
 5 Player Determination Method
            One accurate source for determining incremental revenue of a new gaming device or
   feature is player data of the players that played the new gaming device or feature. Since there
   are many different types of players, from first time gamblers to regular high-rollers, the
   different play characteristics of these different types of players may provide additional insight
 0 to what group of players the game or feature appeals to. This information in turn may be used
   in marketing and promotional material so that the game device or feature is emphasized to an
   appropriate audience.
            FIG. 6 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring incremental revenue associated with
   player statistics according to embodiments of the invention.
 5          Referring to FIG. 6, a flow 220 begins by accessing game date for a new gaming device
   in process (222). For example, a new gaming device may be placed on June 1 and game data
   for the first week of its implementation may be accessed. In process (224), the accessed game
   data is separated by predefined categories of players. Here, any useful categorization of the
   players may be used. For the purpose of this embodiment, the players are categorized in one of
 O four groupings. The first grouping is uncarded or unidentified players. This group includes all
   players that do not identify themselves to the new gaming device. Some of the players may
   have a player loyalty account and have simply forgot to enter their player card, while other
   players simply do not have a player account. The second group is identified players that are
   new players. This group includes players that do not have any prior game sessions stored on a
25 player database. They may be players that are familiar with the casino, but have only recently
   signed up to have a player account, players that are new to the casino, or players that are
   gambling for the first time. The third group is identified players that are infrequent visitors to
   the casino. This group includes players that have previous game sessions stored in association
   with their player accounts, but the stored games sessions are few and far between. This group
30 may include players that only visit the casino once a year or once every six months on a
   vacation. The fourth group is identified players that are regular gamblers. This group includes
   players that regularly visit the casino and have several gaming session records stored in
                                                     19

   association with their player account. The separation between infrequent and regular players
   may be set or modified by the casino or another entity analyzing play characteristics of the new
   game. In other embodiments, additional or fewer groups of players may be defined, which may
   depend in part on the goals of the analysis.
 5          Although the above four categories of players has been defined for the current example,
   player categories may be defined or further defined based on other criteria, such as being
   defined based upon play patterns. For example, some players have an affinity for video slot
   machines, while others prefer mechanical spinning reel games. It can be important to measure
   how well a game performs within player categories that have already shown an affinity for that
 0 type of game. Also, many gamblers are driven by habit and play the same game over and again.
   It is useful to measure play of a game not only by its play from players who typically like
   similar game types but also to measure against players that normally don't play games of the
   type being measured. That's because a game that attracts even a small amount of play from
   players who normally patronize a different kind of machine could indicate a game that, over
 5 time, will attract play from such players.
            It is important to also measure play, not just on a single snapshot, but over a period of
   time. For example, a game that attracts just a few players in its early weeks but steadily grows,
   could be a game of great value given enough time for players to become acclimated to it. Yet
   another important means for categorizing players is by their habits: time of day and day of
 O week of typical play are useful differentiators, as is volume of play. Play volume can be
   considered from several perspectives, play in a given session at a game, play during a single
   visit or a time period such as a month or a year. Of course, when long-term play periods are
   being measured, care must be taken to ensure an appropriate testing period for the game being
   measured.
25          Play volume may be considered simply as total wagers made, or it could be considered
   as total loss during a period or a session. For example, a player on a winning streak might very
   well make more total wagers than a person whose luck is running cold. It is also useful to note
   how such periods of good or bad fortune affects a given player or a given player category for
   overall future wager activity.
30          It is useful to graph, the credit meter balance of each play session for each player and
   consolidate that information into categorization and analysis. By measuring the resulting credit
   meter balance after each wager, an accurate understanding of player experience is obtained.
                                                      20

    Whether the credit meter ever rises above player-funded wagers made is useful to note, as are
    relative rises in the credit meter balance, even if the balance never exceeds the amount of
    money a player has invested in the game. Graphing is often thought of only from a visual
    perspective. But electronic or other automated analysis of the rise and fall of credit meter
 5  balance is the most efficient means of analyzing player experience as volumes of data in a
    typical casino quickly becomes overwhelming when manual processes are applied.
             Even uncarded players can be categorized according to play volume and play
    experiences. Although the identity of a given player is unknown, it is useful to subcategorize
    uncarded players when using their behavior in measurement and evaluation of a game's
 0  performance and incremental revenue contribution.
             After the game data has been separated out by player category in process (224), the
    relevant uncarded/unidentified game play is summed and stored in process (226). Since the
    play of this group cannot be tied to a particular player or as part of a larger game session for
    comparison's sake, it is simply grouped together. In process (228) prior game session data (if
 5  any) is accessed for each of the identified players that played the new gaming device as part of
    a recent gaming session. This prior game session data may be accessed from a player account
    database and may include raw game session data, such as total coin-in played for a previous
    game session, or may include summarized or averaged game data, such as an average coin-in
    per game session.
 0O          In process (230), the game play for new players from their recent game session that
    included game play of the new game is summed. Since new players by definition do not have
    previously stored game session for which to compare the recent game session, the game play
    data for the new gaming device and the total game play data may be totaled and stored. The
    game play data from a recent game session is compared to the accessed game session data for
25  the infrequent players in process (232). The differences from this comparison may be summed
    up for all of the infrequent players and stored in process (234). Similarly, the game play data
    from the recent game sessions is compared to the accessed game session data for the regular
    players in process (236), and the differences attributable to this comparison are summed up and
    stored in process (238).
30           The stored summations for each of the player groupings is then combined and analyzed
    in process (240). This may include averaging each of the stored summations and/or weighting
    each player category summation. That is, each category of player may require a slightly
                                                      21

   different analysis to accurately reach the incremental revenue attributed to the new gaming
   device. For example, the uncarded play of the gaming device can only be compared against
   other uncarded play of similar gaming devices, such as gaming devices of a similar theme,
   location, and/or denomination. This comparison may provide insight to incremental revenue
 5 attributable to the new gaming device, as uncarded/unidentified players are often new. Or at
   least infrequent, visitors to the casino and the new game may be what attracts them. Therefore,
   although total revenues for the game might not seem great, especially early in the life of a new
   game, significant revenue from uncarded/unidentified players is a sign that a game is attracting
   new revenues to the casino-especially if revenue from uncared/unidentified players is
 0 growing over time, or if a disproportionate amount of play from newly card players is found on
   the machine being measured. That's because many of the people who initially started playing
   the machine without identification could choose to join the casino's loyalty program
   specifically because of the new game. Indeed, any indication that a game is bringing new
   players to the casino's loyalty club is very valuable knowledge.
 5          For new players and infrequent players, substantially all of their game play may be
   attributable to the new gaming device. Here, the players may have visited the casino simply to
   play the gaming device or may have played longer or wagered more money due in part to the
   new gaming device. A portion of this analysis may also focus on the time or credits spent on
   the new gaming device versus other gaming devices during their gaming session. That is, if a
 O large portion of the player's gaming session was spent at the new gaming device, it is more
   likely that this revenue generated by the new gaming device was incremental revenue that
   would have not otherwise been collected by the casino. On the other hand, if the player only
   played a few games of a much larger gaming session at the new gaming device, it is more likely
   that the player either did not like the new gaming device or would have spent the same wager
25 on a different machine. However, the difference in these two scenarios is naturally handled by
   the summation and averaging of the game play data in processes (230), (234), and (240).
            Regular players can also be a good group by which to measure incremental revenue
   associated with a new gaming device because these players have a strong track record of
   gaming sessions played at the casino. Hence, if they place significantly different wager
30 amounts in a game session that includes play of the new gaming device, it is very likely that
   this additional revenue is due to the presence of the new gaming device. For example, if player
   A typically averages about $700 of wagers over four hour game sessions and then places $1000
                                                     22

   worth of wagers in a game session including $500 in wagers on the new gaming device, it is
   likely that the additional $300 is due in part to the player's interest in the new gaming device.
   On the other hand, if player B typically wagers $800 of wagers over three hour game sessions
   and then places $800 of wagers in a game session that included $700 in wagers on the new
 5 gaming device, the new gaming device is simply taking player B's play away from another
   gaming device that she would have likely played anyway. Thus, although player B placed
   more wagers than player A on the new gaming device, the new gaming device did not generate
   any incremental revenue from player B. In contrast, player A placed an additional $300 in
   wagers that can be attributed in part to the play on the new gaming device.
 0         In combining the stored data from the different player categories in process (240),
   different weights may be assigned to each of the player categories. For example, if a casino
   was really interested in seeing how established players were receiving a new game, a greater
   weight may be placed on the data from regular players, followed by less weight placed on the
   data from new and infrequent players, and followed by relatively little weight being placed on
 5 the uncarded play data. Alternatively, only one or some of the player categories may be used to
   determine incremental revenue generation by the new gaming device. These relative
   weightings are mentioned only for illustration and actual weighting in a given measurement
   may be quite different.
           As mentioned above, the categorization of game data among groups of players may
 0 identify types of players that the new gaming device may appeal to. For example, if the game
   play for new players and infrequent players is relatively high on the new gaming device, the
   new gaming device may appeal to newer gamblers. The casino may utilize this information to
   market the new gaming device as beginner friendly and/or lower the denomination required to
   play the game since newer player are not as likely to play higher denomination gaming devices.
25 Additionally, if certain trends appear in the analyzed game sessions, such as players typically
   playing another gaming device along with the new gaming device, the inference may be made
   that players that like the other gaming device would like the new gaming device as well. This
   information could be used by suggesting to players of the other gaming device that they would
   likely enjoy the new gaming device as well. Promotional credits may even be offered to
30 players at the other gaming device to try the new gaming device.
   Property Determination Method
                                                     23

            The property determination method is another incremental revenue tool that can be used
    to determine the value of new gaming device or feature. Unlike the player determination
    method discussed above, the property determination method focuses on the revenue generated
    for a particular gaming area rather than relying on measurements taken for individual or groups
 5  of players. Here, the incremental differences in the revenue generated for the gaming area may
    compared for time periods prior to the installation of the new game or feature with time periods
    following the installation of the new game or feature. Although normal fluctuations in business
    may have an influence on the revenue generated during either of these time periods, this effect
    can be minimized by using scaling factors to modify the measured values.
 0          FIG. 7 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring incremental revenue associated with
    property statistics according to embodiments of the invention.
            Referring to FIG. 7, flow 250 measures the incremental revenue associated with a new
    feature added to a group of existing gaming devices. For example, this new feature may be a
    lucky coin mystery jackpot associated with a bank of gaming devices. Flow 250 begins by
 5  determining an average revenue for existing games in a game property in process (252).
    Process (252) would not necessarily be limited to determining the average revenue for the
    games at the gaming bank associated with the new feature since players may simply move from
    another bank of games to the bank associated with the new feature without wagering any
    additional credits over what they would have wagered at the prior game bank.
 0O         The new feature is implemented with the bank of gaming devices in process (254). In
    process (256) the revenue is determined for the game property with the new feature activated.
    This determined revenue is scaled in process (258) using one or more scaling factors. Scaling
    factors are used to make a later revenue comparison accurate. They are discussed in additional
    detail below along with examples. The scaled revenue determined for the game property with
25  the new feature activated is then compared to the average revenue for the game property prior
    to the activation of the new feature in process (260). This comparison may highlight
    differences in the revenue generated for the game property with the implementation of the new
    feature. Here, these differences may be at least in part attributed to the new feature, although
    some natural variation in the level of business may be partially responsible for the differences.
30  As mentioned above, the more detailed and accurate the scaling factors are, the more accurate
    the incremental revenue analysis may be. Additionally, longer measurement periods for the
    new feature will generally de-emphasize the day to day fluctuations of the business. In some
                                                     24

    instances, data from other portions of the game floor or from nearby casinos may be taken into
    account to ascertain any trends in the day to day business fluctuations occurring during the
    measurement period. These trends may also be used as scaling factors for the measured
    revenue with the new feature to make the comparison of process 260 more accurate.
 5
    Combination Determination Method
            The combination determination method basically utilizes a variety of determination
    methods to get a better idea of the true value of a new gaming device or feature. Here,
    incremental revenue analysis may be obtained using the player and property determination
 0  methods while comparisons to house average and player surveys may be used to determine the
    game's popularity or desirability.
            FIG. 8 is a flow diagram of a method of measuring incremental revenue associated with
    combination of statistics according to embodiments of the invention.
            Referring to FIG. 8, flow 270 begins by ascertaining incremental revenue attributed to a
 5  new gaming device using the player determination method in process (272). In process (274),
    the property determination method is used to ascertain additional incremental revenue
    information attributed to the new gaming device. The play volume of the new gaming device is
    compared to the house average in process (276), and player impressions of the gaming device
    are ascertained in process (278) from player surveys. The player surveys may be carried out by
 '0 casino personnel who observe a player at the new gaming device or may be requested by the
    gaming device at the end of a game session, such as when the player cashes out. Incentives
    such as additional cash-less credits may be offered to the player to persuade them to participate
    in the game survey. In process (280) the information from the above processes may be
    combined to provide an indication of the value of the new gaming device. Each portion of
25  ascertained information may be included in a value report for the new gaming device.
    Alternatively, portions of the measured data may be combined and summarized. For example,
    the incremental game revenue data from the player determination method and the property
    determination method may be combined with each other.
30  Scaling Factors
            As discussed above, scaling factors may be used in a variety of circumstances to
    provide a more accurate comparison between measured sets of data. Scaling factors may be
                                                    25

   set up for a variety of situations and circumstances and may be used with one or both of
   previously stored game play information and recently measured game player information.
   Scaling factors that are used may be automatically set according to predefined parameters or
   can be manually entered into a table to take into account factors that may skew the revenue data
 5 one way or the other. Table A provides an example scaling factor list with the actual scaling
   factor value to be determined (TBD) by a casino operator or another individual that is
   responsible for overseeing the analysis of the game revenue within a casino.
   Table A
                                                          Description                         Scaling
    Item          Category
                                                                                              Factor
       1           Player                               Identified Player                       TBD
      2            Player                               Uncarded Player                         TBD
      3             Time                                     Friday                             TBD
      4             Time                                    Saturday                            TBD
      5             Time                                     Sunday                             TBD
      6             Time                                Other Week Day                          TBD
      7             Other                                Game Location                          TBD
      8             Other                            Ads/Media Attention                        TBD
      9             Other                                   Holidays                            TBD
      10            Other                                 Conventions                           TBD
      11            Other                Season / Weather / Environmental Influences            TBD
      12            Other                          General State of Economy                     TBD
10
            Scaling factors 1 and 2 relate to the player determination method and may be used in
   part to alter the weight assigned to each of the identified categories of players. Here, only
   identified players and uncarded players are listed. However, various other entries of player
   types may be present if additional categories of players are separated and analyzed. Scaling
15 factors 3, 4, 5, and 6 relate to time based measurements. These scaling factors may take into
   account specific time periods of revenue. For example, if revenue is only measured on a
   Saturday, this measurement may be artificially inflated because gaming business is generally
   stronger on weekends. Thus, a scaling factor to reduce this influence may be used so that this
                                                      26

    measured revenue number can be properly compared with a historical average revenue value.
    Scaling factor 7 relates to a game or features relative game floor position. Although game floor
    position may not have an overly large effect on the game play and revenue generation of a
    gaming device, especially good locations, such as near an entrance door, and especially bad
 5  locations, such as underneath a staircase can be accounted for.
             Scaling factor 8 relates to the amount of advertisement or promotion a casino or
    manufacturer have put into a gaming device or feature. For example, if a relatively large
    amount of money has been spent on billboard space, mailers, or television ads promoting a new
    feature, this feature may generate more play or revenue than a feature that has had no
 0  promotion. Scaling factor 9 takes into account holidays that fall in a measurement time period.
    Since holidays typically increase gambling numbers, a scaling factor may be used to account
    for this increase. Similarly, scaling factor 10 may take into account increased game play due to
    a large convention that is being held at the casino or in the town where the casino is located.
    Scaling factor 11 may take into account a particular season and/or climate conditions during a
 5  measurement period. For example, if a Minnesota casino was implementing a new game in
    January and a large snow storm closed a major highway near the casino, it would likely have a
    strong negative impact on the revenue numbers for the game floor with the new game.
    Likewise, gaming numbers typically slightly down in July and August for Las Vegas because
    the very high temperatures do not appeal to some tourists. Scaling factor 12 may take into
 '0 account the general state of the economy. For example, if historical average revenue numbers
    or game sessions were recorded at a time that the economy was stronger, it may be proper to
    increase recently measured numbers that were taken when the economy was down. Table B
    provides a first example of how these scaling factor numbers may be set.
25  Table B
               Game: Lucky Lightening                        Test Dates: 06/01/2009 - 06/28/2009
                                                          Description                          Scaling
     Item         Category
                                                                                               Factor
       1            Player                              Identified Player                        1.2
       2            Player                             Uncarded Player                           0.8
       3            Time                                     Friday                              1.0
                                                     27

     4            Time                                  Saturday                              1.0
     5            Time                                   Sunday                               1.0
     6            Time                              Other Week Day                            1.0
     7            Other                              Game Location                           0.95
     8            Other                           Ads/Media Attention                        0.85
     9            Other                                 Holidays                              1.0
     10           Other                               Conventions                             1.2
     11           Other             Season / Weather / Environmental Influences              1.05
     12           Other                        General State of Economy                       1.4
  Here, a new game called Lucky Lightening has been implemented on the test floor and game
  player measurements have taken place between June 1, 2009 and June 28, 2009 (four weeks).
  Note that since no additional weekends or major holidays were part of this test period, these
5 scaling factors were maintained at 1.0 so that they do not affect the measured data. Here, it also
  seems that a minor convention may have been in town, the weather/environment was slightly
  worse than average, the game had a slightly better than average placement, and the game
  received more promotion than normal. Table C provides another example for the sake of
  comparison.
0
  Table C
              Game: Big Bacon Bites                      Test Dates: 07/03/2009 - 07/17/2009
                                                      Description                          Scaling
   Item        Category
                                                                                            Factor
      1          Player                             Identified Player                         1.2
     2           Player                             Uncarded Player                           0.8
     3            Time                                   Friday                              0.92
     4            Time                                  Saturday                              1.0
     5            Time                                   Sunday                               1.0
     6            Time                              Other Week Day                            1.0
     7            Other                              Game Location                           0.95
                                                  28

      8            Other                             Ads/Media Attention                          1.3
      9            Other                                    Holidays                             0.78
      10           Other                                  Conventions                             1.0
      11           Other               Season / Weather / Environmental Influences               1.15
      12           Other                          General State of Economy                        1.4
           In Table C, a new game called Big Bacon Bites has been implemented on the game
   floor and has a current testing range of July 3, 2009 to July 17, 2009. Notice that there is one
   extra Friday in this measurement time period which drops the Friday scaling factor down to
 5 0.92. Additionally, since the July  4 th holiday is included in this measurement, the holiday
   scaling factor is also reduced. The weather/season is a little bit warmer than normal, but this
   game has not received much of any promotion or advertisement. Although the above examples
   provide some types of scaling factors, more or less factors may be used, of the factors may be
   used in a slightly different manner.
 0          Some embodiments of the invention have been described above, and in addition, some
   specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However,
   numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of
   this patent disclosure. Further, well known processes have not been described in detail in
   order not to obscure the invention. Thus, while the invention is described in conjunction with
 5 the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings, it is not limited to these embodiments or
   drawings. Rather, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and
   equivalents that come within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out in the
   appended claims.
           Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art are
20 deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                                     29

    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.      A method of measuring performance of a new gaming feature in a game property
    having a plurality of existing gaming devices, the method comprising:
    determining an average revenue for the existing gaming devices in a game property;
 5  implementing the new feature, the new feature associated with a least a portion of the existing
    gaming devices;
    determining revenue for the game property after the new feature is implemented;
    scaling the determined revenue of the game property with the implemented new feature; and
    comparing the determined average revenue for the game property with the determined
 0  revenue for the game property with the implemented new feature.
    2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the new feature is a mystery bonus system associated
    with a portion of the existing gaming devices.
 5  3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the game property is a game floor of a casino.
    4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein scaling the determined
    revenue of the game property with the implemented new feature includes applying a scaling
    factor to the determined revenue.
 10
    5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the scaling factor includes a numerical multiplier
    associated with at least one of a holiday occurrence, a convention occurrence, a time of year,
    an identification determination of a player, a location of the implemented feature, a day of the
    week, a state of the economy, or an amount of promotion given to the feature.
25
    6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining an average
    revenue for the existing gaming devices in a game property includes:
    obtaining coin-in data for the existing gaming devices over a predetermined period; and
    averaging the obtained coin-in data for the existing gaming devices.
30
    7.      A gaming system comprising:
    a plurality of existing gaming devices;
                                                    30

  a server connected to the plurality of gaming device through a network, the server configured
  to record game data associated with the connected gaming devices; and
  a new gaming device connected to the server though the network,
  wherein the server is further configured to compare data from the plurality of existing gaming
5 devices measured over a first period with data from the new gaming device and the plurality
  of existing gaming devices measured over a second period.
  8.      The gaming system of claim 7, wherein the first and second periods are first and
  second time periods.
0
  9.      The gaming system of claim 20, wherein the first and second periods are first and
  second event periods.
  10.     The gaming system of any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the server is further
5 configured to normalize the data from the first and second periods.
  11.     The gaming system of claim 10, wherein the server is configured to normalize the
  data from the first and second periods by applying a scaling factor to at least one of the first
  and second periods.
0
                                                31

                                       !" #$ !%& ''() * )        )( + ,   -)
                                                &.
<removed-date>
                                            .
                                                                                    $
<removed-apn>
                                            1
                                                                                         "
                   2%       ///                                                     23
                   21
                                          2$
                                                                ) '(*
                                                                                        2"
                                                                                              2
                   !1
                                                                                         !%
              !$
                                                            0
                   !2                                                                   !!
                       4$
                   4
                   42                                                          4"
                                                       4%
                              -                                 43
                                  "$

                                           !" #$ !%& ''() * )            )( + ,   -)
                                                 2&.
<removed-date>
                                                                     .                     $
<removed-apn>
                       1                         *
                                                         *
                                                             ) 4
                           %                                    5
                   2$
              22                                                                           "
                   !2
                                                                                  2!
               !                                     0
                               *                                                       2
                                   *                            !!
                                       )
                   4                       45

                            !" #$ !%& ''() * )   )( + ,   -)
                                  !&.
<removed-date>
                                                                         $
<removed-apn>
                                                 *
               2!   *                            *                 2$
                                                 *
                        *                        *
              22
                        *
                    *   *               *                      *
              !2                                                    !!
                                                                         !$

                                                                    !" #$ !%& ''() * )                   )( + ,        -)
                                                                          4&.
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                      $
                   22                     2$                         2
                        !        7             0               0 78 (       * '(*              + '* ()         )99                :            :
<removed-apn>
                                                               0                                                      *
                            *                                                          *
                                                           *                               0                                               *
                        , ('                                   2!
                                                                              +) 6                                                    0
                                     24                                                                    *                6 $
                                                                            ".3%
                            (*                         (*                          (*                                 (*                  (*
              !2             )                         2                           !                                  4                   "
                                                   )                           )                                  )                   )
                                     2.
                                                               2                           !                                              ' *
                            )                          )                           )                                   /
                        !2                                                                                                            !!

                                                                            !" #$ !%& ''() * )                             )( + ,            -)
                                                                                          "&.
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                          $
                               2$                                              2
<removed-apn>
                   <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<                                                             ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                   #######################################################################################
                   #######################################################################################   ##########################################################################
                                                                                            !                             3                                    .
              2!
                                                                                                               !                                     3                                    .
              2.          , (+                                  , (+                                 , (+                          , (+                                 , (+
              !2           , (+                                  , (+                                 , (+                          , (+                                 , (+
                                                                                                                                                                    &         ;
                           !2                                                                                                                                 !!

                                       !" #$ !%& ''() * )        )( + ,    -)
                                             3&.
<removed-date>
                   %2             %$
<removed-apn>
                        %!                                                      %$
                                                                                      "$
                                                                                3$
               3
              32                                            3!
                                                     34               %"
                                                            3"
                         %4
                                                                                 .$
                                                                                      1$
                              %

                        !" #$ !%& ''() * )   )( + ,   -)
                              %&.
<removed-date>
                                                                $$
<removed-apn>
                                     %$
                                                           "$
              ."
                   %"
                                              .$
                                                           1$

                                                !" #$ !%& ''() * )         )( + ,   -)
                                                      1&.
<removed-date>
              2$$                                                    22$                        *7   **?
                                                                                                                   @222A
                                                                                         -     *7) 9  =)
                @2 $A     *8()       *    *(:
                                                                                         * 9 )>  (*
                                                                                         ' ?                   +   @224A
                                                                                           *7   **
<removed-apn>
                        7'( 7         -    =)
                @2 2A
                                     *:
                                                                                    0:7 ((           * + + (*
                                                                                                                   @223A
                                                                                     * +0        )       7
                                                                                                   )   *7
                @2 4A            +   - *(:                                                                         @221A
                                                                                     0     )       ** ?
                                                                                          +     )?) + (*
                                                                                     0:7       *7   (* ?
                          7*()>  *    *(:                                                                          @2!$A
                @2 3A                                                                          - (*
                          * +   - *(:
                                                                                      7'*   *7           (* ?
                                                                                     ? B:    (*             -)     @2!2A
                          7'*      7*()> +                                            )   *7 0            )
               @2 1A         - *(:
                         7*()> + *     *(:
                                                                                     0:7 )??               )
                                                                                         *7  (* ?                  @2!4A
                                                                                       ? B:    (*
                                                                                     7'*     *7          (* ?
                                                                                       9:(* (*            -)       @2!3A
                                                                                     )     *7 0           )
                                                                                     0:7 )??              )
                                                                                     *7  (* ?            9:(*      @2!1A
                                                                                          (*
                                                                                      78) 0:77* )
                                                                                    ? 7 )??    (*                  @24$A
                                                                                         * 9 )

                                                               !" #$ !%& ''() * )         )( + ,   -)
                                                                       .&.
<removed-date>
              2"$
                                    7)    = *9
                             =      : ?    C) ) 9           @2"2A
                        *7        )    *7      '
<removed-apn>
                             7'( 7                  -
                                                            @2"4A
                                  *:
                                 7)           =     : ?
                         *7               '        ,*=) 9   @2"3A
                                      -       *:
                                                                                    2%$
                                                                                                            *)   (*     # * +
                                                                                                                                     @2%2A
                                                                                                            7    *(     = :
                           0 *(    = :
                            7) * ) ?   *7                    @2"1A
                         '    -)     - *:
                                                                                                              *)        '    #
                                                                                                        *    +        7     *(       @2%4A
                         7'*  = *9  = : ?                                                                       =     :
                    C) ) 9 *7 -) 0 *( + =                     :      @23$A
                      -) 7'( 7   +  - *:
                                                                                                          7'*  = *9
                                                                                                     =     : ?  - *7                 @2%3A
                                                                                                         : , :   = *9
                                                                                                   8 *)   (*    7' )
                                                                                                   ?    - *7 ? 7 (*                  @2%1A
                                                                                                           0: =
                                                                                                    *( >    78) * )              ?
                                                                                                    = : * + 7'               )       @21$A
                                                                                                         * : 7

