   Abstract
   A gaming management system comprising a plurality of
   gaming management clients each associated with at least
 5 one of a plurality of venues, each gaming management
   client being arranged such that gaming management data
   associated with a respective venue is buffered at the
   gaming management client; at least one display separate to
   electronic gaming machines at at least one of the
10 plurality of venues; a gaming management server in
   communication with the plurality of gaming management
   clients, the gaming management server being adapted to
   store the gaming management data for each venue and
   comprising a data access module arranged to control access
15 to the gaming management data by each gaming management
   client so that a gaming management client can only access
   gaming management data of a venue with which the gaming
   management client is associated, the gaming management
   server further comprising a jackpot controller operable to
20 provide a progressive jackpot at a respective one of the
   plurality of venues, and wherein the gaming management
   server controls setting of the at least one display; and a
   local database in communication with a respective one of
   the plurality of gaming management clients, the local
25 database being adapted to store the buffered gaming
   management data locally, and being arranged to
   periodically synchronise with the gaming management server
   via the gaming management client, such that if the gaming
   management server goes offline, the gaming management
30 client can employ the most recent version of the gaming
   management data.
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

   Title
   A GAMING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND GAMING MANAGEMENT METHOD
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no.2014203762, which
10 in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2011265488, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no.2009201339. The
   disclosures of each of these applications are incorporated
   herein by reference.
15
   Field
   The invention relates to a gaming management method and a
   gaming management system.
20
   Background of the Invention
   Large gaming venues such as casinos use "systems" to
   manage the deployed gaming assets such as gaming machines
25 and gaming tables.               Such gaming management systems provide
   a wide range of functions including player tracking,
   gaming analysis and jackpot controllers.               In recent times,
   the development of such systems has been targeted at
   meeting the needs of the largest venues and/or venue
30 operating companies.               A disadvantage of this approach has
   been the trend toward producing monolithic products which
   cater for large venues but are not suited to the needs of
   smaller operators, who can often not afford to purchase
   and deploy complicated gaming management systems which
35 generally far exceed their needs in terms of features.
   There is a need for an alternative gaming management
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                     - 2
   system and gaming management method.
   Summary of Invention
 5 In a first aspect, the invention provides a gaming
   management system comprising:
               a plurality of gaming management clients each
   associated with at least one of a plurality of venues,
   each gaming management client being arranged such that
10 gaming management data associated with a respective venue
   is buffered at the gaming management client;
               at least one display separate to electronic gaming
   machines at at least one of the plurality of venues;
               a gaming management server in communication with the
15 plurality of gaming management clients, the gaming
   management server being adapted to store the gaming
   management data for each venue and comprising a data
   access module arranged to control access to the gaming
   management data by each gaming management client so that a
20 gaming management client can only access gaming management
   data of a venue with which the gaming management client is
   associated, the gaming management server further
   comprising a jackpot controller operable to provide a
   progressive jackpot at a respective one of the plurality
25 of venues, and wherein the gaming management server
   controls setting of the at least one display; and
               a local database in communication with a respective
   one of the plurality of gaming management clients, the
   local database being adapted to store the buffered gaming
30 management data locally, and being arranged to
   periodically synchronise with the gaming management server
   via the gaming management client, such that if the gaming
   management server goes offline, the gaming management
   client can employ the most recent version of the gaming
35 management data.
   In an embodiment, at least one venue comprises:
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                     - 3
               a plurality of gaming machines; and
               a plurality of data capture modules associated with
   respective ones of the gaming machines and arranged to
   collect data relating to use of the gaming machine with
 5 which it is associated.
   In an embodiment, the gaming management server is arranged
   to store gaming management data based on venue data
   communicated from the venues.
10
   In an embodiment, the venue data forms at least part of
   the gaming management data.
   In an embodiment, the gaming management server is arranged
15 to derive at least part of the gaming management data by
   processing the venue data.
   In an embodiment, at least one gaming management client is
   associated with a user interface comprising a display, and
20 the gaming management client is arranged to display at
   least some of the gaming management data on the display in
   response to a user instruction input via the user
   interface.
25 In an embodiment, at least one of the gaming management
   clients is associated with a user interface comprising a
   display, and the at least one gaming management client is
   arranged to display at least some of the gaming management
   data on the display in response to a user instruction
30 input via the user interface.
   In an embodiment, the gaming management client is arranged
   to display data corresponding to the current data stored
   by the gaming management server when the gaming management
35 client is connected to the gaming management server and to
   display data corresponding to a prior version of data sent
   to the gaming management client when the gaming management
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                     - 4
   client is not connected to the gaming management server.
   In an embodiment, the gaming management server comprises
   one or more data management modules for processing venue
 5 data.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a gaming
   management method comprising:
               connecting a plurality of gaming management clients
10 to a gaming management server, each gaming management
   client associated with at least one of a plurality of
   venues, each gaming management client being arranged such
   that gaming management data associated with a respective
   venue is buffered at the gaming management client;
15             storing the buffered gaming data locally a local
   database in communication with a respective one of the
   plurality of gaming management clients, the local database
   being adapted to store the buffered gaming management data
   locally;
20             periodically synchronising with a gaming management
   server via the gaming management client, such that if the
   gaming management server goes offline, the gaming
   management client can employ the most recent version of
   the gaming management data stored at the local database;
25             conducting a progressive jackpot for a respective one
   of the plurality of venues using a jackpot controller of
   the gaming management server;
               controlling, by the gaming management server setting
   of at least one display separate to electronic gaming
30 machines at at least one of the plurality of venues; and
               controlling access to the gaming management data by
   each gaming management client so that a gaming management
   client can only access gaming management data of a venue
   with which the venue-based gaming management client is
35 associated.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises collecting data
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                      - 5
    with a plurality of data capture modules associated with
    respective ones of a plurality of gaming machines.
    In an embodiment, the method comprises storing gaming
  5 management data based on venue data communicated from the
    venues.
    In an embodiment, the venue data forms at least part of
    the gaming management data.
10
    In an embodiment, the method comprises deriving at least
    part of the gaming management data by processing the venue
    data with the gaming management server.
15  In an embodiment, at least one of the gaming management
    clients is associated with a user interface comprising a
    display, and the method comprises displaying at least some
    of the gaming management data on the display in response
    to a user instruction input via the user interface.
20
    In an embodiment, the method comprises displaying data
    corresponding to the current data stored by the gaming
    management server when the gaming management client is
    connected to the gaming management server and displaying
25  data corresponding to a prior version of data sent to the
    gaming management client when the gaming management client
    is not connected to the gaming management server.
    In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming
30  management method comprising:
                providing a gaming management server adapted to store
    gaming management data for a plurality of venues;
                providing a gaming management client to a venue
    operated by a venue operator, the gaming management client
35  arrange to buffer gaming management data associated with
    the venue;
                providing a local database in communication with the
    10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                               - 6
   gaming management client, the local database adapted to
   store the buffered gaming management data locally;
               connecting the gaming management client to the gaming
   management server such that the local database, via the
 5 gaming management client, synchronises periodically with
   the gaming management server such that data associated
   with the venue is gathered at the gaming management
   server; and
               storing gaming management data of the venue operator
10 at the gaming management server such that the gaming
   management client can only access gaming management data
   of the venue operator.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
15
   An embodiment of the invention, which combines all aspects
   of the invention, will now be described in relation to the
   accompanying drawings in which:
20 Figure 1 shows an embodiment of a network configuration;
   Figure 2 shows a first exemplary venue configuration;
   Figure 3 shows a second exemplary venue configuration;
25
   Figure 4 shows an embodiment of the gaming management
   server; and
   Figure 5 is a flowchart of an embodiment.
30
   Detailed Description
   Embodiments of the invention provide a gaming management
   system which allows a plurality of venues to share a
35 gaming management server while maintaining segregation of
   the data.                   This allows smaller venues which would normally
   install a gaming management system to have access to a
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

   gaming management system hosted by an outside party.
   Thus, smaller venues can obtain access to some, or all of
   the functions of a gaming management system, for example,
   on a fee per service basis, rather than paying for an
 5 entire installation.                   In this manner venue operators can
   also extend the aspects of the system which they employ on
   an as needs basis.                   Accordingly, a venue can start with a
   minimal implementation.                   For example to do analysis of a
   gaming machines, and upgrade their system to offer
10 additional features such as player tracking without
   requiring significant software update as all the functions
   can already be installed at the gaming server in order to
   accommodate other venue operators.
15 Referring to Figure 1, there is shown an exemplary network
   connection where plurality of venues 120 are connected by
   means of virtual private network 130 to a gaming
   management server 110.
20 Figure 2 show a first exemplary venue 200 which has a
   plurality of electronic gaming machines 201, 202, 203 each
   of which is associated with a player tracking module 211,
   212, 213.                   The player tracking modules 211 are typically
   installed in the cabinet of the electronic gaming machines
25 and are in data communication with the electronic gaming
   machines 201,202,203.                   Each player tracking module 211,
   212, 213 acts a data capture module to capture information
   relating to use of the electronic gaming machine with
   which it is associated and store that data in a memory of
30 the player tracking module to locally buffer the data.                    In
   this configuration, the buffered data is periodically
   communicated directly from the player tracking modules
   211, 212, 213 to the gaming management server using a
   network communication protocol such as TCP/IP.
35
   The gaming management client 240 is also in data
   communication with the gaming management server and can
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                                - 8
   retrieve data from the gaming management server relating
   to the venue 200.                    Depending on the implementation, such
   data may be raw data or processed in some form as will be
   described in further detail below.                    The venue 200 may also
 5 incorporate a cash desk 230 having an associated data
   capture module 235 which communicates data to the
   management server.                    The gaming venue 200 may also
   incorporate one or more displays 200. Depending on the
   implementation the settings for the displays can be set at
10 the gaming management server or by the gaming management
   client 240.
   Figure 3 shows an alternative configuration of a venue
   300.          In this embodiment, the venue 300 is arranged so
15 that data relating to the venue is buffered at a gaming
   management client 340.                    That is, all communication with
   the gaming management server is done by the gaming
   management client 340.                    Accordingly, in this embodiment
   player tracking modules 311, 312, 313 gather data from
20 EGM's 301, 302, 303 respectively, communicate this data to
   the gaming management client which stores it in the local
   database 350.                    The gaming management client 340 then
   communicates the data from the local database to the
   gaming management server.                    Similarly, gaming management
25 client 340 communicates data captured by data capture
   module 335 about the cash desk 330 to the gaming
   management server.                    The gaming management server can
   periodically synchronise its version of the database for
   the venue with the local database 350.                    If the gaming
30 management server goes offline, the gaming management
   client 340 can employ the most recent version of the data.
   Thus, in this configuration, some functions of the gaming
   management server can be conducted by the gaming
   management client such as controlling the displays 320.
35 In alternative configuration, the displays 320 461 may be
   connected directed to the gaming management server.
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                                 - 9
   Referring to Figure 4, there is shown an exemplary
   configuration of a gaming management server 400.                     The
   gaming management server 400 is connected to the venues.
   The gaming management server incorporates a request
 5 handler 410 which controls communication with the venues
   and incorporates a data access control module 411 which
   ensures that transaction carried out by the request
   handler are in respect of the correct data such that
   gaming management clients are restricted to accessing data
10 related to venues with which they are associated in
   client/venue association database 440. This extends to
   ensuring that any management functions 420 which are
   carried out in respect of the data of the correct venue.
   The master database 430 stores data for each of a
15 plurality of venues                    (N) 431, 432, 433.  The management
   functions in this illustrated embodiment include player
   tracking 421, electronic gaming machine analysis 422 and a
   jackpot controller 423.                     Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that other functions can also be implemented
20 including any of the functions offered by known gaming
   management systems, for example, such as the gaming
   management systems sold under the trade name "Systems 7000
   Prime Enterprise" by Aristocrat Technologies Australia Pty
   Limited.
25
   Such a gaming management system can offer front office
   features, such as cash desk, credit controller, player
   tracking, membership control, membership card design,
   security, VIP player management, award centres, customer
30 relationship management, and complimentary and
   commissions.                     It can also offer gaming floor management
   features including of electronic gaming machines, the
   electronic gaming machine floor configuration management
   of the gaming machines, monitoring of the gaming machines,
35 promotions, progressive jackpots, account play, ticket
   based play                   (known as ticket in ticket out),  VIP player
   management, a rewards centre, graphics (such as for
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                               - 10
   displays),                  and dashboards and score cards.   Further, for
   venues which have tables it can conduct table management.
   The system can also provide back of house functions and
   typically most of these back of house functions would be
 5 hosted at the gaming server.                    These include electronic
   gaming machine analysis, marketing analysis, membership
   control, player tracking control, system administration,
   data warehousing, enterprise analysis, a provision of
   displays, dashboards and scorecards, customer relationship
10 management, campaign management, channel management and
   customer relationship management analysis.                    Such systems
   can provide additional applications such as an integrated
   jackpot controller.
15 The method of an embodiment is summarised in Figure 5.
   The method 500 involves providing a gaming management
   server 510, connecting a venue to a game management server
   in exchange for a fee 520, storing data for the venue 530
   at the gaming server; and controlling 540 access to the
20 data so it can only be accessed by a client associated
   with the venue.
   It will be appreciated that while in the above example,
   clients are shown as being at the venues, in other
25 configurations a client may be located elsewhere. It will
   also be appreciated that some clients may be associated
   with more than one venue and be able to access data of
   multiple venues or institute processing of data across
   multiple venues with which they are associated.
30
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular, that various features of the embodiments can
35 be combined to form further embodiments.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                    - 11
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
 5 i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication
10 is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute
   an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in any country.
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                     - 12
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.          A gaming management system comprising:
               a plurality of gaming management clients each
 5 associated with at least one of a plurality of venues,
   each gaming management client being arranged such that
   gaming management data associated with a respective venue
   is buffered at the gaming management client;
               at least one display separate to electronic gaming
10 machines at at least one of the plurality of venues;
               a gaming management server in communication with the
   plurality of gaming management clients, the gaming
   management server being adapted to store the gaming
   management data for each venue and comprising a data
15 access module arranged to control access to the gaming
   management data by each gaming management client so that a
   gaming management client can only access gaming management
   data of a venue with which the gaming management client is
   associated, the gaming management server further
20 comprising a jackpot controller operable to provide a
   progressive jackpot at a respective one of the plurality
   of venues, and wherein the gaming management server
   controls setting of the at least one display; and
               a local database in communication with a respective
25 one of the plurality of gaming management clients, the
   local database being adapted to store the buffered gaming
   management data locally, and being arranged to
   periodically synchronise with the gaming management server
   via the gaming management client, such that if the gaming
30 management server goes offline, the gaming management
   client can employ the most recent version of the gaming
   management data.
   2.          A gaming management system as claimed in claim 1,
35 wherein at least one venue comprises:
               a plurality of gaming machines; and
               a plurality of data capture modules associated with
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                     - 13
   respective ones of the gaming machines and arranged to
   collect data relating to use of the gaming machine with
   which it is associated.
 5 3.          A gaming management system as claimed in claim 2
   wherein the gaming management server is arranged to store
   gaming management data based on venue data communicated
   from the venues.
10 4.          A gaming management system as claimed in claim 3,
   wherein the venue data forms at least part of the gaming
   management data.
   5.          A gaming management system as claimed in claim 3 or
15 claim 4, wherein the gaming management server is arranged
   to derive at least part of the gaming management data by
   processing the venue data.
   6.          A gaming management system as claimed in any one of
20 claims 1 to 5, wherein at least one of the gaming
   management clients is associated with a user interface
   comprising a display, and the at least one gaming
   management client is arranged to display at least some of
   the gaming management data on the display in response to a
25 user instruction input via the user interface.
   7.          A gaming management system as claimed in claim 6,
   wherein the gaming management client is arranged to
   display data corresponding to the current data stored by
30 the gaming management server when the gaming management
   client is connected to the gaming management server and to
   display data corresponding to a prior version of data sent
   to the gaming management client when the gaming management
   client is not connected to the gaming management server.
35
   8.          A gaming management system as claimed in any one of
   claims 2 to 7, wherein the gaming management server
   comprises one or more data management modules for
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                     - 14
   processing venue data.
   9.          A gaming management method comprising:
               connecting a plurality of gaming management clients
 5 to a gaming management server, each gaming management
   client associated with at least one of a plurality of
   venues, each gaming management client being arranged such
   that gaming management data associated with a respective
   venue is buffered at the gaming management client;
10             storing the buffered gaming data locally a local
   database in communication with a respective one of the
   plurality of gaming management clients, the local database
   being adapted to store the buffered gaming management data
   locally;
15             periodically synchronising with a gaming management
   server via the gaming management client, such that if the
   gaming management server goes offline, the gaming
   management client can employ the most recent version of
   the gaming management data stored at the local database
20             conducting a progressive jackpot for a respective one
   of the plurality of venues using a jackpot controller of
   the gaming management server;
               controlling, by the gaming management server setting
   of at least one display separate to electronic gaming
25 machines at at least one of the plurality of venues; and
               controlling access to the gaming management data by
   each gaming management client so that a gaming management
   client can only access gaming management data of a venue
   with which the venue-based gaming management client is
30 associated.
   10.         A gaming management method as claimed in claim 9,
   comprising collecting data with a plurality of data
   capture modules associated with respective ones of a
35 plurality of gaming machines.
   11.         A gaming management method as claimed in claim 9 or
   10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

                                      - 15
    claim 10, comprising storing gaming management data based
    on venue data communicated from the venues.
    12.         A gaming management method as claimed in claim 11,
  5 wherein the venue data forms at least part of the gaming
    management data.
    13.         A gaming management method as claimed in claim 11 or
    claim 12, comprising deriving at least part of the gaming
10  management data by processing the venue data with the
    gaming management server.
    14.         A gaming management method as claimed in any one of
    claims 9 to 13, wherein at least one of the gaming
15  management clients is associated with a user interface
    comprising a display, and the method comprises displaying
    at least some of the gaming management data on the display
    in response to a user instruction input via the user
    interface.
20
    15.         A gaming management method as claimed in claim 14,
    comprising displaying data corresponding to the current
    data stored by the gaming management server when the
    gaming management client is connected to the gaming
25  management server and displaying data corresponding to a
    prior version of data sent to the gaming management client
    when the gaming management client is not connected to the
    gaming management server.
    10291664_1(GHMaters) P76936.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
