  1002085164
                                ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
             In some embodiments, a first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first
  optical package configured for a first focal length. A second camera unit of the multifunction
5 device for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field includes a second
  actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a second focal length, and the
  camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera unit and the second
  camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator
  and the second camera actuator.
0
                                                   1

                   3/29
                    3088
                    3086
                                        3090
3092
                                              Portable
                                             Multifunction
                                               Device
                                                 3080
       2 nd Optical       1 st  Optical
          Sensor             Sensor
     /Camera Unit      /Camera Unit
     (see FIG. 3B)      (see FIG. 3C)
           3084                3082
                FIG. 3A

    1002085164
     MOBILE ZOOM USING MULTIPLE OPTICAL IMAGE STABILIZATION CAMERAS
                                               BACKGROUND
  5 Technical Field
    [0001]       This disclosure relates generally to camera module components and more specifically
    to the use of multiple cameras for zoom functions in mobile devices.
    [0001A]      Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2016/048475
    (published as WO 2017/058409), filed on 24 August 2016.
 -0
    Description of the Related Art
    [0002]       The advent of small, mobile multipurpose devices such as smartphones and tablet or
    pad devices has resulted in a need for high-resolution, small form factor cameras, capable of
    generating high levels of image quality, for integration in the devices.
  5 [0003]       Increasingly, as users rely on these multifunction devices as their primary cameras for
    day-to-day use, users demand features, such as zoom photography, that they have become
    accustomed to using in dedicated-purpose camera bodies.            The zoom function is useful for
    capturing the details of a scene or alternatively capturing the context in which those details exist.
    The ability to change focal length to achieve zoom effects is sufficiently compelling to users of
  0 dedicated purpose cameras that it compels them to carry bags with an array of removable lenses,
    each of which weighs more and takes up more space than many common examples of a
    multifunction device, such as a phone.
    [0004]       Providing the zoom feature in a camera unit of a multifunction device has
    traditionally required moving mechanical parts that increase complexity and cost of the device.
25  Such moving parts also reduce reliability of the device and take up valuable space inside the
    device, which puts the desire for zoom functions in direct conflict with the desire for smaller
    camera units that take up less space in the multifunction device.
                                     SUMMARY OF EMBODIMENTS
30
    [0004A]          According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a camera system of a
    multifunction device, comprising: a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a
    first image of a first visual field, wherein the first camera unit comprises a first actuator for
    moving a first optical package configured for a first focal length; and a second camera unit of the
                                                        1

   1002085164
   multifunction device for capturing a second image of a second visual field, wherein the second
   camera unit comprises a second actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a
   second focal length, and the camera system comprises a shared magnet positioned between the
   first camera unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion
 5 in both the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
   [0004B]         According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a camera system of
   a multifunction device, comprising: a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a
   first image of a first visual field, wherein the first camera unit comprises a first actuator for
   moving a first optical package configured for a first focal length; and a second camera unit of the
 0 multifunction device for capturing a second image of a second visual field, wherein the second
   camera unit comprises a second actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a
   second focal length, and the camera system comprises a shared magnet holder for the first
   actuator and the second actuator.
   [0004C]         According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a camera unit of a
 5 multifunction device, comprising: an optical package; and an actuator, wherein the actuator
   comprises one or more magnets arranged at multiple sides of the optical package, wherein one of
   the one or more magnets is shared with a second actuator for moving a second optical package,
   one or more autofocus coils arranged between respective ones of the magnets and the optical
   package.
 0 [0005]       In some embodiments, a first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first
   optical package configured for a first focal length. A second camera unit of the multifunction
   device for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field includes a second
   actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a second focal length, and the
   camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera unit and the second
25 camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator
   and the second camera actuator.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30 [0006]      FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of a portable multifunction device with a multiple
   camera system for portable zoom in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0007]      FIG. 2 depicts a portable multifunction device having a multiple camera system for
   portable zoom in accordance with some embodiments.
                                                    2

   1002085164
   [0008]       FIG. 3A illustrates a view of an example embodiment of camera module components
   arranged for multiple visual fields usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
   according to at least some embodiments.
   [0009]       FIG. 3B illustrates a user interface for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
 5 according to at least some embodiments.
   [0010]       FIG. 3C depicts a side view of an example embodiment of camera module
   components usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom with optical image
   stabilization, according to at least some embodiments.
   [0011]       FIGs. 4A-D illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
 0 including paired side magnet arrays usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
   according to at least some embodiments.
   [0012]       FIGs. 4 E-H depict an example embodiment of camera module components including
   paired side magnet arrays usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
   least some embodiments.
 5 [0013]       FIGs. 41-L illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including paired side magnet arrays usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
   according to at least some embodiments.
   [0014]       FIG. 5 depicts an example embodiment of camera modules including corner magnets
   in a shared magnet holder usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
 0 least some embodiments.
   [0015]       FIGs.   6A-E illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including shared magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
   least some embodiments.
   [0016]       FIGs.   7A-C illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
25 including shared magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
   least some embodiments.
   [0017]       FIGs.   8A-E illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including stationary magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to
   at least some embodiments.
30 [0018]       FIGs. 9A-D depict an example embodiment of camera module components including
   stationary magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at least
   some embodiments.
                                                     3

   1002085164
   [0019]       FIGs.   1OA-D illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including stationary magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to
   at least some embodiments.
   [0020]       FIGs.    11 A-C depict an example embodiment of camera module components
 5 including shielded magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to
   at least some embodiments.
   [0021]       FIGs. 12A-G depict example embodiments of camera module components including
   arrays of magnets omitting a center magnet between modules and usable for a multiple camera
   system for portable zoom, according to at least some embodiments.
 0 [0022]       FIGs. 13A-B depict example embodiments of camera module components including
   arrays of magnets omitting a center magnet between modules and usable for a multiple camera
   system for portable zoom, according to at least some embodiments.
   [0023]       FIG. 14A is a flow chart of a method usable in a multiple camera system for portable
   zoom, according to at least some embodiments.
 5 [0024]       FIG. 14B is a flow chart of a method usable in a multiple camera system for portable
   zoom, according to at least some embodiments.
   [0025]       FIG. 15 illustrates an example computer system configured to implement aspects of
   the system and method for camera control, according to some embodiments.
   [0026]       This specification includes references to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment."
 0 The appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" do not necessarily
   refer to the same embodiment. Particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined
   in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure.
   [00271       "Comprising."    This term is open-ended. As used in the appended claims, this term
   does not foreclose additional structure or steps. Consider a claim that recites: "An apparatus
25 comprising one or more processor units .... " Such a claim does not foreclose the apparatus from
   including additional components (e.g., a network interface unit, graphics circuitry, etc.).
   [0028]       "Configured To." Various units, circuits, or other components may be described or
   claimed as "configured to" perform a task or tasks. In such contexts, "configured to" is used to
   connote structure by indicating that the units/circuits/components include structure (e.g.,
30 circuitry) that performs those task or tasks during operation. As such, the unit/circuit/component
   can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the specified unit/circuit/component
   is not currently operational (e.g., is not on).     The units/circuits/components used with the
   "configured to" language include hardware-for example, circuits, memory storing program
   instructions executable to implement the operation, etc. Reciting that a unit/circuit/component is
                                                     4

    1002085164
    "configured to" perform one or more tasks is expressly intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C. § 112,
    sixth paragraph, for that unit/circuit/component.         Additionally, "configured to" can include
    generic structure (e.g., generic circuitry) that is manipulated by software and/or firmware (e.g., an
    FPGA or a general-purpose processor executing software) to operate in manner that is capable of
  5 performing the task(s) at issue.        "Configure to" may also include adapting a manufacturing
    process (e.g., a semiconductor fabrication facility) to fabricate devices (e.g., integrated circuits)
    that are adapted to implement or perform one or more tasks.
    [0029]       "First," "Second," etc. As used herein, these terms are used as labels for nouns that
    they precede, and do not imply any type of ordering (e.g., spatial, temporal, logical, etc.). For
  o example, a buffer circuit may be described herein as performing write operations for "first" and
    "second" values.      The terms "first" and "second" do not necessarily imply that the first value
    must be written before the second value.
    [0030]       "Based On." As used herein, this term is used to describe one or more factors that
    affect a determination.      This term does not foreclose additional factors that may affect a
  5 determination. That is, a determination may be solely based on those factors or based, at least in
    part, on those factors. Consider the phrase "determine A based on B." While in this case, B is a
    factor that affects the determination of A, such a phrase does not foreclose the determination of A
    from also being based on C. In other instances, A may be determined based solely on B.
 -0
                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    Introduction to multiple cameras for optical zoom
25
    [0031]       Some embodiments include methods and/or systems for using multiple cameras to
    provide optical zoom to a user.           Some embodiments include a first camera unit of a
    multifunction device capturing a first image of a first visual field. A second camera unit of the
    multifunction device simultaneously captures a second image of a second visual field. In some
30  embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first optical package with a first focal length. In
    some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second optical package with a second
    focal length. In some embodiments, the first focal length is different from the second focal
    length, and the first visual field is a subset of the second visual field.
                                                         5

   1002085164
   [00321           In some embodiments, a first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a
   first optical package.    configured for a first focal length.     A second camera unit of the
   multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field
   includes a second actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a second focal
 5 length, and the camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera unit
   and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in both the first
   camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
   [0033]       In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the
   first actuator and the second actuator, to which are attached one or more magnets of the first
 0 camera unit and one or more magnets of the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields
   usable in creating motion in the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
   [0034]        In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the
   first actuator and the second actuator, from which the first camera actuator and the second
   camera actuator are suspended using respective sets of control wires mounted with a pair of
 5 control wires in each corner of each respective actuator.
   [0035]       In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the
   first actuator and the second actuator, from which the first camera actuator and the second
   camera actuator are attached using respective sets of control wires. In some embodiments, the
   camera system further includes a first actuator lateral magnet positioned opposite the shared
 0 magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first camera unit. In some embodiments,         the
   camera system further includes a pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one
   another with respect to an axis between the shared magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet.
   In some embodiments, the camera system further includes a second actuator lateral magnet
   positioned opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the second camera unit;
25 and the camera system further includes a pair of second actuator transverse magnets situated
   opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared magnet and the second actuator
   lateral magnet.
   [0036]       In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet holder to which
   are attached one or more side-mounted magnets of the first camera unit and one or more side
30 mounted magnets of the second camera unit used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating
   motion in one or more of the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
   [0037]       In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet holder to which
   are moveably articulated one or more coils of the first camera unit and one or more corner
   mounted magnets of the second camera unit used to usable in creating motion in one or more of
                                                     6

   1002085164
   the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
   [00381         Some embodiments include       a first camera unit of a multifunction device for
   capturing a first image of a first visual field.     In some embodiments, the first camera unit
   includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package configured for a first focal length.
 5 Some embodiments further include a second camera unit of the multifunction device for
   simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field. In some embodiments, the
   second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical package configured
   for a second focal length, and the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the first
   actuator and the second actuator.
 0 [0039]         In some embodiments, the camera system includes one or more corner magnets of
   the first camera unit and one or more comer magnets of the second camera unit to generate
   magnetic fields usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second
   camera actuator, and the corner magnets are attached to the shared magnet holder.
   [0040]         In some embodiments, the camera system includes one or more side magnets of the
 5 first camera unit and one or more side magnets of the second camera unit to generate magnetic
   fields usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera
   actuator, and the magnets are attached to the shared magnet holder.
   [0041]         In some embodiments, the camera system includes one or more magnets of the first
   camera unit and one or more magnets of the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields
 0 usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator, the
   magnets are attached to the shared magnet holder, and the magnets include a magnet shared
   between the first camera unit and the second camera unit.
   [0042]         In some embodiments. the first camera actuator and the second actuator are attached
   to the shared magnet holder using respective sets of control wires mounted with a pair of
25 control wires in each corner of each respective actuator.
   [0043]         In some embodiments, the first camera actuator and the second actuator are
   suspended from the shared magnet holder using respective sets of control wires mounted in each
   corner of each respective actuator.
   [0044]         In some embodiments, the camera system further includes a first actuator lateral
30 magnet positioned opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first camera
   unit.      In some embodiments,    the camera system further includes a pair of first actuator
   transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
   magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet. In some embodiments, the camera system further
   includes a second actuator lateral magnet positioned opposite the shared magnet with respect to
                                                      7

   1002085164
   an optical axis of the second camera unit. In some embodiments, the camera system further
   includes a pair of second actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect
   to an axis between the shared magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet.
   [0045]      In some embodiments, a camera unit of a multifunction device includes an optical
 5 package and an actuator. In some embodiments, the actuator includes one or more magnets
   arranged at multiple sides of the optical package. In some embodiments, one of the one or more
   magnets is shared with a second actuator for moving a second optical package.           In some
   embodiments, one or more autofocus coils arranged between respective ones of the magnets and
   the optical package.
 0 [0046]      In some embodiments, the one or more autofocus coils radially surround the optical
   package. In some embodiments, the actuator is attached to a magnet holder of the camera using
   respective sets of control wires mounted with a pair of control wires in each corner of each
   respective actuator. In some embodiments, the actuator is articulated to a magnet holder of the
   camera using respective sets of control wires mounted with a pair of control wires in each
 5 comer of the actuator. In some embodiments, the magnet holder is shared with one or more
   magnets of the second actuator.
   [0047]      In some embodiments, the actuator is attached to a magnet holder of the camera
   using a control wire mounted control wires in each comer of the actuator. In some
   embodiments, the actuator is suspended from a magnet holder of the camera using a control
 0 wire mounted control wires in each comer of the actuator.
   [0048]      In some embodiments, a camera system of a multifunction device, includes a first
   camera unit of the multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual field. In
   some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first optical image stabilization actuator for
   moving a first optical package configured for a first focal length. The camera system further
25 includes second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second
   image of a second visual field. In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second
   optical image stabilization actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a
   second focal length. In some embodiments, the first focal length is different from the second
   focal length. In some embodiments, the first focal length being different from the second focal
30 length includes both the first focal length and the second focal length being adjustable ranges,
   which may or may not overlap.
   [0049]      In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet positioned
   between the first camera unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in
   creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator. In some
                                                    8

   1002085164
   embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera
   unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in both
   the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
   [0050]         In some embodiments, the camera system further includes a first actuator lateral
 5 magnet positioned opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first camera
   unit.      In some embodiments, the camera system further includes a pair of first actuator
   transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
   magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet. In some embodiments, the camera system further
   includes a second actuator lateral magnet positioned opposite the shared magnet with respect to
 0 an optical axis of the second camera unit. In some embodiments, the camera system further
   includes a pair of second actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect
   to an axis between the shared magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet.
   [0051]         In some embodiments, the camera system includes a shared magnet holder to which
   are attached one or more magnets of the first camera unit and one or more magnets of the
 5 second camera unit used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or more of
   the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator. In some embodiments, the camera
   system includes one or more stationary magnets secured at fixed positions relative to image
   sensors of the first camera unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in
   creating motion in one or more of the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
 0 [0052]         In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second central magnet
   array situated along the axis between the first optics package of the first camera unit and the
   second optics package of the second camera unit. In some embodiments, the second central
   magnet array includes an second central upper magnet having a first polarity and a second
   central lower magnet having a polarity antiparallel to the first polarity. In some embodiments,
25 the second camera unit includes a second distal magnet array situated opposite the second
   central magnet array with respect to the second optics package of the second camera unit. In
   some embodiments, the second distal magnet array includes a second distal lower magnet
   having the first polarity and a second distal upper magnet.
   [0053]         In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first central magnet array
30 situated along an axis between a first optics package of the first camera unit and a second optics
   package of the second camera unit.        In some embodiments, the first central magnet array
   includes a first central upper magnet having a first polarity and a first central lower magnet
   having a polarity antiparallel to the first polarity. In some embodiments, the first camera unit
   includes a first distal magnet array situated opposite the first central magnet array with respect
                                                      9

   1002085164
   to the first optics package of the first camera unit. In some embodiments, the first distal magnet
   array includes a first distal lower magnet having the first polarity and a first distal upper magnet
   having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [0054]       In some embodiments, a magnetic shield is included between the first optical image
 5 stabilization actuator and the second optical image stabilization actuator.
   [0055]       In some embodiments, a metallic shield is included between the first optical image
   stabilization actuator and the second          optical image stabilization actuator.        In some
   embodiments, the metallic shield includes steel including at least a quantity of iron, a quantity
   of manganese, a quantity of Sulphur, a quantity of phosphorus, and a quantity of carbon. In
 0 some embodiments, shielding is articulated to individual magnets of the first optical image
   stabilization actuator and the second optical image stabilization actuator.
   [0056]       In some embodiments, metallic shields is are articulated to respective ones of the
   magnets of the first optical image stabilization actuator and respective ones of the magnets of
   the second optical image stabilization actuator to reduce magnetic interference between the first
 5 optical image stabilization actuator and the second optical image stabilization actuator.
   [0057]       In some embodiments, a method for capturing images with multiple cameras of a
   multifunction device includes providing optical image stabilization to the multiple cameras. In
   some embodiments, the method includes a first camera unit of a multifunction device capturing
   a first image of a first visual field. In some embodiments, the method includes a second camera
 0 unit of the multifunction device simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual
   field. In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first optical package with a first
   focal length. In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second optical package
   with a second focal length.       In some embodiments, the first focal length is different from the
   second focal length, and the first visual field is a subset of the second visual field.      In some
25 embodiments, the method includes providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit,
   and providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit.
   [0058]       In some embodiments, the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera
   unit and the providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
   moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit independently of one another.
30 [0059]       In some embodiments, the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera
   unit and the providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
   moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit in unison.
   [0060]       In some embodiments, the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera
   unit and the providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
                                                       10

   1002085164
   generating a first magnetic field in the first camera unit and a second magnetic field in the
   second camera unit based on a magnet shared between the first camera unit and the second
   camera unit.
   [0061]       In some embodiments, the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera
 5 unit and the providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
   moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit in unison through operation of a first
   camera unit actuator and a second camera unit actuator that share a central magnet.
   [0062]       In some embodiments, the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera
   unit and the providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
 0 moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit in unison through operation of a first
   camera unit actuator and a second camera unit actuator that share a magnet holder.
   [00631        Some embodiments include a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium,
   storing program instructions computer-executable to implement capturing a first image of a first
   visual field with a first camera unit of a multifunction device, simultaneously capturing a
 5 second image of a second visual field with a second camera unit of the multifunction device,
   providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit, and providing optical image
   stabilization to the second camera unit.
   [0064]       In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first optical package with a
   first focal length, the second camera unit includes a second optical package with a second focal
 o length, the first focal length is different from the second focal length, and the first visual field is
   a subset of the second visual field.
   [0065]       In some embodiments, the program instructions computer-executable to implement
   providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical image
   stabilization to the second camera unit further include program instructions computer
25 executable to implement moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit independently
   of one another.
   [0066]       In some embodiments, the program instructions computer-executable to implement
   providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical image
   stabilization to the second camera unit further include program instructions computer
30 executable to implement moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit in unison.
   [0067]       In some embodiments, the program instructions computer-executable to implement
   providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the program instructions
   computer-executable to implement providing optical image stabilization to the second camera
   unit further include program instructions computer-executable to implement generating a first
                                                      11

   1002085164
   magnetic field in the first camera unit and a second magnetic field in the second camera unit
   based on a magnet shared between the first camera unit and the second camera unit.
   [0068]       In some embodiments, the program instructions computer-executable to implement
   providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the program instructions
 5 computer-executable to implement providing optical image stabilization to the second camera
   unit further include program instructions computer-executable to implement moving the first
   camera unit and the second camera unit in unison through operation of a first camera unit
   actuator and a second camera unit actuator that share a magnet holder.
   [0069]       In some embodiments, a camera system of a multifunction device includes a first
 0 camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual field. In some
   embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package
   configured for a first focal length. In some embodiments, a camera system of a multifunction
   device includes a second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a
   second image of a second visual field. In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes
 5 a second actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a second focal length. In
   some embodiments, the second actuator includes a second actuator lateral magnet. In some
   embodiments, the first optical package and the second optical package are situated between the
   first actuator later magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet along an axis between the first
   actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet. In some embodiments, no
 0 actuator lateral magnets are situated between the first optical package and the second optical
   package along the axis.
   [0070]       In some embodiments, the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator
   lateral magnet have polarities aligned antiparallel to one another. In some embodiments, the
   first camera unit and the second camera unit each include a respective first pair of first actuator
25 transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect to the axis between the first
   actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet, and the first camera unit and the
   second camera unit each include a respective second pair of first actuator transverse magnets
   situated opposite one another with respect to the axis between the first actuator lateral magnet
   and the second actuator lateral magnet.
30 [0071]       In some embodiments, the magnets of the respective first pair of first actuator
   transverse magnets have polarity alignments parallel to the respective alignments of
   corresponding respective magnets of the first pair of second actuator transverse magnets.
   [0072]       In some embodiments, the magnets of the respective first pair of first actuator
   transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel to the respective alignments of
                                                    12

   1002085164
   corresponding respective magnets of the first pair of second actuator transverse magnets.
   [0073]       In some embodiments, the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator
   lateral magnet have polarities aligned at right angles to polarities of the respective first pair of
   first actuator transverse magnets.
 5 [0074]        Some embodiments further include coils aligned with current circulating in a plane
   parallel to a plane in which the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral
   magnet have polarities aligned.
   [0075]       In some embodiments, a camera unit of a multifunction device, includes an optical
   package and an actuator for moving the optical package to a first focal length.            In some
 0 embodiments, the actuator includes a lateral magnet to one side of the optical package, and a
   first pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated on sides opposite one another with respect
   to an axis between the optical package and the lateral magnet. In some embodiments, the lateral
   magnet is situated one on one side of the optical package at which no transverse magnets are
   present. In some embodiments, no actuator lateral magnet is situated on a remaining side of the
 5 optical package at which neither the lateral magnet nor the transverse magnets are situated.
   [0076]       In some embodiments, coils are aligned with current circulating in a plane parallel to
   a plane in which the lateral magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned.
   [0077]       In some embodiments, coils are aligned with current circulating in a plane
   perpendicular to a plane in which the lateral magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities
 0 aligned.
   [0078]       In some embodiments, a second pair of first actuator transverse magnets is situated
   opposite one another with respect to the axis between the lateral magnet and the optical
   package.     In some embodiments, the magnets of the first pair of transverse magnets have
   polarity alignments antiparallel to one another.
25 [0079]       In some embodiments, the magnets of the second pair of transverse magnets have
   polarity alignments antiparallel to one another. In some embodiments, the magnets of the first
   pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel to magnets of the second pair of
   transverse magnets situated on a same side of the axis between the lateral magnet and the
   optical package.
30 [0080]        Some embodiments include an actuator having a lateral magnet for moving an
   optical package, wherein the lateral magnet is situated to one side of the optical package, and a
   first pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated on sides opposite one another with respect
   to an axis between the optical package and the lateral magnet. In some embodiments, the lateral
   magnet is situated one on one side of the optical package at which no transverse magnets are
                                                      13

    1002085164
    present, and no actuator lateral magnet is situated on a remaining side of the optical package at
    which nether the lateral magnet nor the transverse magnets are situated.
    [0081]       In some embodiments, coils are aligned with current circulating in a plane parallel to
    a plane in which the lateral magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned. In some
  5 embodiments, coils are aligned with current circulating in a plane perpendicular to a plane in
    which the lateral magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned.
    [0082]       In some embodiments, a second pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated
    opposite one another with respect to the axis between the lateral magnet and the optical
    package.     In some embodiments, the magnets of the first pair of transverse magnets have
 t0 polarity alignments antiparallel to one another.        In some embodiments, the magnets of the
    second pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel to one another.
    [0083]       In some embodiments, a camera system of a multifunction device includes a first
    camera unit of the multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual field. In
    some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical
 [5 package. In some embodiments, the camera system further includes a second camera unit for
    simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field. In some embodiments, the
    second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical package.               The
    second camera unit includes a second central magnet array situated along the axis between the
    first optics package of the first camera unit and the second optics package of the second camera
 !o unit. In some embodiments, the second central magnet array includes a second central upper
    magnet having a first polarity and a second central lower magnet having a polarity antiparallel
    to the first polarity. In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second distal
    magnet array situated opposite the second central magnet array with respect to the second optics
    package of the second camera unit.         In some embodiments, the second distal magnet array
25  includes a second distal lower magnet having the first polarity and a second distal upper magnet
    having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
    [0084]       In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first central magnet array
    situated along an axis between a first optics package of the first camera unit and a second optics
    package of the second camera unit.          In some embodiments, the first central magnet array
30  includes a first central upper magnet having a first polarity and a first central lower magnet
    having a polarity antiparallel to the first polarity. In some embodiments, the first camera unit
    includes a first distal magnet array situated opposite the first central magnet array with respect
    to the first optics package of the first camera unit. In some embodiments, the first distal magnet
    array includes a first distal lower magnet having the first polarity and a first distal upper magnet
                                                        14

   1002085164
   having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [0085]        Some embodiments further include an autofocus coil unit of the second actuator. In
   some embodiments, the autofocus coil unit is situated between the second optical package and
   the second central magnet array.
 5 [00861        Some embodiments further include an autofocus coil unit of the second actuator. In
   some embodiments, the autofocus coil unit is situated between the second optical package and
   the second central magnet array. In some embodiments, an exterior coil unit of the second
   actuator, wherein the exterior coil unit includes one or more SP coils situated between the
   second central magnet array and the first camera unit.
 0 [0087]       In some embodiments, the exterior coil unit includes an upper exterior coil segment
   radially surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a first
   direction around the second optical package, and a lower exterior coil segment radially
   surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a second direction
   around the second optical package. In some embodiments, the second direction is opposite the
 5 first direction.
   [0088]       In some embodiments, the exterior coil unit includes an upper exterior coil segment
   situated at a side of the second optical package and having a current circulating along a side of
   the second optical package, and a lower exterior coil segment situated at the side of the second
   optical package and having a current circulating along the side of the second optical package.
 0 [0089]       In some embodiments, the autofocus coil unit includes an upper autofocus coil
   segment radially surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a
   first direction around the second optical package, and a lower autofocus coil segment radially
   surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a second direction
   around the second optical package. In some embodiments, the second direction is opposite the
25 first direction.
   [0090]        Some embodiments include a camera unit of a multifunction device.          In some
   embodiments, the camera unit includes an optical package; and an actuator.               In some
   embodiments, the actuator includes one or more magnet arrays including a plurality of magnets
   arranged at multiple sides of the optical package, one or more autofocus coils arranged between
30 respective ones of the magnet arrays and the optical package, and one or more exterior coils
   arranged opposite the autofocus coils with respect to the magnet arrays.
   [0091]        In some embodiments, the one or more autofocus coils radially surround the optical
   package.
   [0092]       In some embodiments, each of the one or more magnet arrays includes an upper
                                                       15

   1002085164
   magnet having a magnetic field aligned in a first direction inward toward the optical package,
   and each of the one or more magnet arrays further includes a lower magnet having a magnetic
   field aligned in a second direction outward from the optical package.
   [0093]       In some embodiments, each of the one or more magnet arrays includes an upper
 5 magnet having a magnetic field aligned in a first direction, and each of the one or more magnet
   arrays further includes a lower magnet having a magnetic field aligned in a second direction
   antiparallel to the first direction.
   [0094]       In some embodiments, the one or more autofocus coils include an upper autofocus
 0 coil segment radially surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in
   a first direction around the second optical package, and a lower autofocus coil segment radially
   surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a second direction
   around the second optical package. In some embodiments, the second direction is opposite the
   first direction.
 5 [0095]       In some embodiments, the one or more exterior coils include an upper exterior coil
   segment radially surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a
   first direction around the second optical package, and a lower exterior coil segment radially
   surrounding the second optical package and having a current circulating in a second direction
   around the second optical package. In some embodiments, the second direction is opposite the
 0 first direction.
   [0096]       In some embodiments, the one or more exterior coils include an upper exterior coil
   segment situated at a side of the second optical package and having a current circulating along a
   side of the second optical package, and a lower exterior coil segment situated at the side of the
   second optical package and having a current circulating along the side of the second optical
25 package in a same direction as the upper exterior coil segment.
   [0097]       In some embodiments, a camera system includes a first camera unit and a second
   camera unit.     The first camera unit is a first camera unit for capturing a first image of a first
   visual field. In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a
   first optical package within a first range of focal lengths. The second camera unit is a second
30 camera unit for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field.         In some
   embodiments, the second visual field is a subset of the first visual field. In some embodiments,
    the second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical package. In
   some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second central magnet array situated
   along the axis between the first optics package of the first camera unit and the second optics
                                                      16

   1002085164
   package of the second camera unit. In some embodiments,            the second central magnet array
   includes a second central upper magnet having a first polarity and a second central lower
   magnet having a polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [0098]       In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second distal magnet array
 5 situated opposite the second central magnet array with respect to the second optics package of
   the second camera unit, and the second distal magnet array includes a second distal lower
   magnet having the first polarity and a second distal upper magnet having the polarity
   antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [0099]       In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first central magnet array
 0 situated along an axis between a first optics package of the first camera unit and a second optics
   package of the second camera unit, and the first central magnet array includes a first central
   upper magnet having a first polarity and a first central lower magnet having a polarity
   antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [00100]      In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first distal magnet array
 5 situated opposite the first central magnet array with respect to the first optics package of the first
   camera unit, and the first distal magnet array includes a first distal lower magnet having the first
   polarity and a first distal upper magnet having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [00101]      Some embodiments further include       an autofocus coil unit of the second actuator,
   wherein the autofocus coil unit is situated between the second optical package and the second
 0 central magnet array.
   [00102]      Some embodiments further include an exterior coil unit of the second actuator. In
   some embodiments, the exterior coil unit includes one or more SP coils situated between the
   second central magnet array and the first camera unit.
   [00103]      In some embodiments, the first image and the second image are preserved to a
25 storage medium as separate data structures. In some embodiments, the first image and second
   image are of different media types. For example, in some embodiments, the first image is a
   moving image data structure captured at a first frame rate. In some embodiments, the second
   image is a moving image data structure captured at a second frame rate. In some embodiments,
   the second frame rate is faster than the first frame rate. In some embodiments, the first image is
30 a still image taken at time t(O), and the second image is a moving image data structure captured
   over a time interval including t(O).
   [00104]      Some embodiments assign metadata to the first image and the second image a time
   indexing feature for establishing that the first image and the second image correspond as having
   been simultaneously captured or captured at overlapping time intervals.          Some embodiments
                                                      17

   1002085164
   display the first image in a screen interface with a control for switching to display of the second
   image, and, responsive to an actuation of the control, display the second image in place of the
   first image. Some embodiments generate a synthetic intermediate image at least in part from
   data of the first image and data of the second image.          In some embodiments, the synthetic
 5 intermediate image has a third focal length different from each of the first focal length and the
   second focal length, and the synthetic intermediate image has a third visual field different from
   each of the first visual field and the second visual field. Some embodiments preserve storage of
   the first image and data of the second image after creation of the synthetic intermediate image.
   [00105]      Some embodiments generate a synthetic result image at least in part from data of the
 0 first image and data of the second image. In some embodiments, the synthetic intermediate
   image has is generated by enhancing the first image using data from the second image. Some
   embodiments display the first image and the second image in a shared screen interface.
   [00106]      Some embodiments include a camera system of a multifunction device.            In some
   embodiments, the camera system includes a first camera unit of a multifunction device for
 5 capturing a first image of a first visual field and a second camera unit of the multifunction
   device for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field.               In some
   embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first optical package configured for a first focal
   length.    In some embodiments, the second camera unit includes a second optical package
   configured for a second focal length. In some embodiments, the first focal length is different
 0 from the second focal length.
   [00107]      In some embodiments, the camera system includes a processing unit configured to
   assign to the first image and the second image a time indexing feature for establishing that the
   first image and the second image were simultaneously captured. In some embodiments, the first
   camera unit includes a lens having a folded lens configuration with a longer focal length than a
25 lens of the second camera unit, and the second visual field is centered on a second visual axis
   aligned with a first visual axis on which the first visual field is centered.
   [00108]      In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a lens having a longer focal
   length than a lens of the second camera unit, and the second visual field is centered on a second
   visual axis aligned with a first visual axis on which the first visual field is centered. In some
30 embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first moveable lens and a first image sensor
   attached a chassis of the camera unit, the second camera unit includes a lens and a second image
   sensor moveably attached a chassis of the camera unit.
   [00109]      In some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first moveable lens and a first
   image sensor attached a chassis of the camera unit, and the second camera unit includes a lens
                                                      18

   1002085164
   and a second image sensor moveably attached a chassis of the camera unit.                     In some
   embodiments, the first camera unit and the second camera unit include a first image processing
   pipeline and a second image processing pipeline, respectively.
   [00110]       Some embodiments include a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium,
 5 storing program instructions, computer-executable to implement a first camera unit of a
   multifunction device capturing a first image of a first visual field, and a second camera unit of
   the multifunction device simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field. In
   some embodiments, the first camera unit includes a first optical package with a first focal
   length, the second camera unit includes a second optical package with a second focal length, the
 0 first focal length is different from the second focal length, and the first visual field is a subset of
   the second visual field.
   [00111]      In some embodiments, the program instructions are further computer-executable to
   implement assigning metadata to the first image and the second image a time indexing feature
   for establishing that the first image and the second image correspond as having been
 5 simultaneously captured. In some embodiments, the program instructions are further computer
   executable to implement displaying the first image in a screen interface with a control for
   switching to display of the second image, and responsive to an actuation of the control,
   displaying the second image in place of the first image.
   [00112]      In some embodiments, the program instructions are further computer-executable to
 o implement generating a synthetic intermediate image from data of the first image and data of the
   second image. In some embodiments, the synthetic intermediate image has a third focal length
   different from each of the first focal length and the second focal length, and the synthetic
   intermediate image has a third visual field different from each of the first visual field and the
   second visual field.      In some embodiments, the program instructions are further computer
25 executable to implement preserving storage of the first image and data of the second image
   after creation of the synthetic intermediate image.         In some embodiments, the synthetic
   intermediate image has is generated by enhancing the first image using data from the second
   image.     In some embodiments, the program instructions are further computer-executable to
   implement displaying the first image and the second image in a shared screen interface.
30 [00113]      In some embodiments, the first image is a moving image data structure captured at a
   first frame rate. In some embodiments, the second image is a moving image data structure
   captured at a second frame rate. In some embodiments, the second frame rate is faster than the
   first frame rate. In some embodiments, the first image is a still image taken at time t(O), and the
   second image is a moving image data structure captured over a time interval including t(O).
                                                     19

   1002085164
   Multifunction device examples
   [00114]     Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
 5 illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
   specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present
   disclosure. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that some embodiments
   may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods,
   procedures, components, circuits, and networks have not been described in detail so as not to
 0 unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
   [00115]     It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be used
   herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by these terms. These
   terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example, a first contact could be
   termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second contact could be termed a first contact, without
 5 departing from the intended scope. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts, but
   they are not the same contact.
   [00116]     The terminology used in the description herein is for the purpose of describing
   particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in the description and the
   appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms
 o as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term
   "and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or
   more of the associated listed items.      It will be further understood that the terms "includes,"
   "including," "comprises," and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the
   presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not
25 preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations,
   elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
   [00117]     As used herein, the term "if' may be construed to mean "when" or "upon" or "in
   response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the context. Similarly, the
   phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is detected" may be construed to
30 mean "upon determining" or "in response to determining" or "upon detecting [the stated condition
   or event]" or "in response to detecting [the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
   [00118]     Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and associated
   processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the device is a portable
   communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains other functions, such as
                                                     20

   1002085164
   PDA and/or music player functions. Other portable electronic devices, such as laptops, cameras,
   cell phones, or tablet computers, may also be used. It should also be understood that, in some
   embodiments, the device is not a portable communications device, but is a desktop computer
   with a camera. In some embodiments, the device is a gaming computer with orientation sensors
 5 (e.g., orientation sensors in a gaming controller).     In other embodiments, the device is not a
   portable communications device, but is a camera.
   [00119]     In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display and a touch
   sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the electronic device may
   include one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a physical keyboard, a mouse
 0 and/or a joystick.
   [00120]     The device typically supports a variety of applications, such as one or more of the
   following: a drawing application, a presentation application, a word processing application, a
   website creation application, a disk authoring application, a spreadsheet application, a gaming
   application, a telephone application, a video conferencing application, an e-mail application, an
 5 instant messaging application, a workout support application, a photo management application, a
   digital camera application, a digital video camera application, a web browsing application, a
   digital music player application, and/or a digital video player application.
   [00121]     The various applications that may be executed on the device may use at least one
   common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface.            One or more
 o functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information displayed on the
   device may be adjusted and/or varied from one application to the next and/or within a respective
   application. In this way, a common physical architecture (such as the touch-sensitive surface) of
   the device may support the variety of applications with user interfaces that are intuitive and
   transparent to the user.
25 [00122]     Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with cameras. FIG.
   1 is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction device 100 with cameras 164a-b in
   accordance with some embodiments. Cameras 164a-b are sometimes called "optical sensors" for
   convenience, and may also be known as or called an optical sensor system. Device 100 may
   include memory 102 (which may include one or more computer readable storage mediums),
30 memory controller 122, one or more processing units (CPU's) 120, peripherals interface 118, RF
   circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, touch-sensitive display system 112, microphone
   113, input/output (1/0) subsystem 106, other input or control devices 116, and external port 124.
   Device 100 may include optical sensors 164a-b. These components may communicate over one
   or more communication buses or signal lines 103.
                                                     21

   1002085164
   [00123]      It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
   multifunction device, and that device 100 may have more or fewer components than shown, may
   combine two or more components, or may have a different configuration or arrangement of the
   components.     The various components shown in various of the figures may be implemented in
 5 hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software, including one or more signal
   processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.
   [00124]      Memory 102 may include high-speed random access memory and may also include
   non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, flash memory devices,
   or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to memory 102 by other components of
 0 device 100, such as CPU 120 and the peripherals interface 118, may be controlled by memory
   controller 122.
   [00125]      Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of the
   device to CPU 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute various
   software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform various functions
 5 for device 100 and to process data.
   [00126]      In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU 120, and memory controller
   122 may be implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some other embodiments, they
   may be implemented on separate chips.
   [00127]      RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
 0 electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
   signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices via
   the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 may include well-known circuitry for performing
   these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver, one or more
   amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC chipset, a
25 subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108 may communicate
   with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World Wide Web (WWW), an intranet
   and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone network, a wireless local area network
   (LAN)      and/or  a metropolitan    area  network    (MAN),   and   other devices by wireless
   communication.      The wireless communication may use any of a variety of communications
30 standards, protocols and technologies, including but not limited to Global System for Mobile
   Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink
   packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink packet access (HSUPA), wideband code division
   multiple access (W-CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple
   access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11 a, IEEE 802.1 1b, IEEE
                                                    22

   1002085164
   802.11 g and/or IEEE 802.1 In), voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol for e
   mail (e.g., Internet message access protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol (POP)), instant
   messaging (e.g., extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), Session Initiation Protocol
   for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant Messaging and
 5 Presence Service (IMPS)), and/or Short Message Service (SMS),                or any other suitable
   communication protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of the filing
   date of this document.
   [00128]      Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio interface
   between a user and device 100.        Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from peripherals
 0 interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the electrical signal to
   speaker 111.    Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible sound waves. Audio
   circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone 113 from sound waves.
   Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and transmits the audio data to
   peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio data may be retrieved from and/or transmitted to
 5 memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by peripherals interface 118. In some embodiments, audio
   circuitry 110 also includes a headset jack (e.g., 212, FIG. 2). The headset jack provides an
   interface between audio circuitry 110 and removable audio input/output peripherals, such as
   output-only headphones or a headset with both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and
   input (e.g., a microphone).
 0 [00129]      1/0 subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as touch
   screen 112 and other input control devices 116, to peripherals interface 118. 1/0 subsystem 106
   may include display controller 156 and one or more input controllers 160 for other input or
   control devices. The one or more input controllers 160 receive/send electrical signals from/to
   other input or control devices 116. The other input control devices 116 may include physical
25 buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels,
   and so forth. In some alternate embodiments, input controller(s) 160 may be coupled to any (or
   none) of the following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, and a pointer device such as a
   mouse. The one or more buttons (e.g., 208, FIG. 2) may include an up/down button for volume
   control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more buttons may include a push
30 button (e.g., 206, FIG. 2).
   [00130]      Touch-sensitive display 112 provides an input interface and an output interface
   between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends electrical signals
   from/to touch screen 112. Touch screen 112 displays visual output to the user. The visual output
   may include graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination thereof (collectively termed
                                                    23

   1002085164
   "graphics"). In some embodiments, some or all of the visual output may correspond to user
   interface objects.
   [00131]      Touch screen 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set of sensors that accepts
   input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch screen 112 and display
 5 controller 156 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in memory 102)
   detect contact (and any movement or breaking of the contact) on touch screen 112 and converts
   the detected contact into interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one or more soft keys, icons,
   web pages or images) that are displayed on touch screen 112. In an example embodiment, a point
   of contact between touch screen 112 and the user corresponds to a finger of the user.
 0 [00132]      Touch screen 112 may use LCD (liquid crystal display) technology, LPD (light
   emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting diode) technology, although other
   display technologies may be used in other embodiments. Touch screen 112 and display controller
   156 may detect contact and any movement or breaking thereof using any of a variety of touch
   sensing technologies now known or later developed, including but not limited to capacitive,
 5 resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor
   arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch screen 112. In
   an example embodiment, projected mutual capacitance sensing technology is used, such as that
   found in the iPhone@, iPod Touch®, and iPad@ from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
   [00133]      Touch screen 112 may have a video resolution in excess of 100 dpi.              In some
 0 embodiments, the touch screen has a video resolution of approximately 160 dpi. The user may
   make contact with touch screen 112 using any suitable object or appendage, such as a stylus, a
   finger, and so forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed to work primarily with
   finger-based contacts and gestures, which can be less precise than stylus-based input due to the
   larger area of contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some embodiments, the device translates
25 the rough finger-based input into a precise pointer/cursor position or command for performing the
   actions calculated by the user.
   [00134]      In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 may include a
   touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some embodiments,
   the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch screen, does not display
30 visual output. The touchpad may be a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from touch screen
   112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive surface formed by the touch screen.
   [00135]      Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various components.
   Power system 162 may include a power management system, one or more power sources (e.g.,
   battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power failure detection circuit, a power
                                                     24

   1002085164
   converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light-emitting diode (LED)) and any other
   components associated with the generation, management and distribution of power in portable
   devices.
   [00136]      Device 100 may also include optical sensors or cameras 164a-b. Optical sensors 164a
 5 b may include charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary metal-oxide semiconductor
   (CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensors 164a-b receive light from the environment, projected
   through one or more lens, and converts the light to data representing an image. In conjunction
   with imaging module 143 (also called a camera module), optical sensors 164a-b may capture still
   images or video. In some embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100,
 0 opposite touch screen display 112 on the front of the device, so that the touch screen display may
   be used as a viewfinder for still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments, another
   optical sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user's image may be obtained for
   videoconferencing while the user views the other video conference participants on the touch
   screen display.      In embodiments in which multiple cameras or optical sensors 164a-b are
 5 supported, each of the multiple cameras or optical sensors 164a-b may include its own photo
   sensor(s), or the multiple cameras or optical sensors 164a-b may be supported by a shared photo
   sensor.    Likewise, in embodiments in which multiple cameras or optical sensors 164a-b are
   supported, each of the multiple cameras or optical sensors 164a-b may include its own image
   processing pipeline of processors and storage units, or the multiple cameras or optical sensors
 0 164a-b may be supported by a image processing pipeline of processors and storage units.
   [00137]      Device 100 may also include one or more proximity sensors 166. FIG. 28 shows
   proximity sensor 166 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately, proximity sensor 166 may
   be coupled to input controller 160 in 1/0 subsystem 106. In some embodiments, the proximity
   sensor turns off and disables touch screen 112 when the multifunction device is placed near the
25 user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a phone call).
   [00138]      Device 100 includes one or more orientation sensors 168. In some embodiments, the
   one or more orientation sensors include one or more accelerometers (e.g., one or more linear
   accelerometers and/or one or more rotational accelerometers). In some embodiments, the one or
   more orientation sensors include one or more gyroscopes. In some embodiments, the one or more
30 orientation sensors include one or more magnetometers. In some embodiments, the one or more
   orientation sensors include one or more of global positioning system (GPS), Global Navigation
   Satellite System (GLONASS), and/or other global navigation system receivers. The GPS,
   GLONASS,        and/or other global navigation system receivers may be used for obtaining
   information concerning the location and orientation (e.g., portrait or landscape) of device 100. In
                                                    25

    1002085164
    some embodiments, the one or more orientation sensors include any combination of
    orientation/rotation sensors. FIG. 1 shows the one or more orientation sensors 168 coupled to
    peripherals interface 118. Alternately, the one or more orientation sensors 168 may be coupled to
    an input controller 160 in 1/0 subsystem 106. In some embodiments, information is displayed on
  5 the touch screen display in a portrait view or a landscape view based on an analysis of data
    received from the one or more orientation sensors.
    [00139]      In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
    operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion module
    (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, text input module (or set
  0 of instructions) 134, Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of instructions) 135, arbiter
    module 157 and applications (or sets of instructions) 136. Furthermore, in some embodiments
    memory 102 stores device/global internal state 157, as shown in Figures 1A and 3. Device/global
    internal state 157 includes one or more of: active application state, indicating which applications,
    if any, are currently active; display state, indicating what applications, views or other information
  5 occupy various regions of touch screen display 112; sensor state, including information obtained
    from the device's various sensors and input control devices 116; and location information
    concerning the device's location and/or attitude.
    [00140]      Operating system 126 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X, WINDOWS, or
    an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software components and/or
 !0 drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory management, storage
    device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication between various
    hardware and software components.
    [00141]      Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices over one or
    more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for handling data
25  received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g., Universal Serial
    Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other devices or indirectly over a
    network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some embodiments, the external port is a
    multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or similar to and/or compatible with the 30
    pin connector used on iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.) devices.
30  [00142]      Contact/motion module 130 may detect contact with touch screen 112 (in conjunction
    with display controller 156) and other touch sensitive devices (e.g., a touchpad or physical click
    wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes various software components for performing
    various operations related to detection of contact, such as determining if contact has occurred
    (e.g., detecting a finger-down event), determining if there is movement of the contact and
                                                        26

   1002085164
   tracking the movement across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., detecting one or more finger
   dragging events), and determining if the contact has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger-up event or a
   break in contact). Contact/motion module 130 receives contact data from the touch-sensitive
   surface. Determining movement of the point of contact, which is represented by a series of
 5 contact data, may include determining speed (magnitude), velocity (magnitude and direction),
   and/or an acceleration (a change in magnitude and/or direction) of the point of contact. These
   operations may be applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger contacts) or to multiple
   simultaneous contacts (e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts). In some embodiments,
   contact/motion module 130 and display controller 156 detect contact on a touchpad.
 0 [00143]     Contact/motion module 130 may detect a gesture input by a user. Different gestures
   on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns. Thus, a gesture may be detected by
   detecting a particular contact pattern. For example, detecting a finger tap gesture includes
   detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off) event at the same
   position (or substantially the same position) as the finger-down event (e.g., at the position of an
 5 icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe gesture on the touch-sensitive surface
   includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting one or more finger-dragging events,
   and subsequently followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off) event.
   [00144]     Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for rendering and
   displaying graphics on touch screen 112 or other display, including components for changing the
 0 intensity of graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the term "graphics" includes any object
   that can be displayed to a user, including without limitation text, web pages, icons (such as user
   interface objects including soft keys), digital images, videos, animations and the like.
   [00145]     In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics to be
   used. Each graphic may be assigned a corresponding code. Graphics module 132 receives, from
25 applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be displayed along with, if necessary,
   coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then generates screen image data to output to
   display controller 156.
   [00146]     Text input module 134, which may be a component of graphics module 132, provides
   soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137, e-mail 140, IM 141,
30 browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
   [00147]     GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this information
   for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based dialing, to camera
   143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide location-based services such as
   weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation widgets).
                                                     27

   1002085164
   [00148]        Applications 136 may include the following modules (or sets of instructions), or a
   subset or superset thereof:
         *    contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
         *    telephone module 138;
 5       *    video conferencing module 139;
         *    e-mail client module 140;
         e    instant messaging (IM) module 141;
         *    workout support module 142;
         *    dual camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
 0       *    image management module 144;
         *    browser module 147;
         *    calendar module 148;
         *    widget modules 149, which may include one or more of: weather widget 149-1, stocks
              widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, dictionary widget 149
 5            5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets 149-6;
         *    widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
         e    search module 151;
         *    video and music player module 152, which may be made up of a video player
         e    module and a music player module;
 !       e    notes module 153;
         *    map module 154; and/or
         e    online video module 155.
   [00149]        Examples of other applications 136 that may be stored in memory 102 include other
25 word       processing   applications,  other  image    editing   applications, drawing   applications,
   presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital rights management,
   voice recognition, and voice replication.
   [00150]        In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130,
   graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137 may be used to manage an
30 address book or contact list (e.g., stored in application internal state 192 of contacts module 137
   in memory 102 or memory 370), including: adding name(s) to the address book; deleting name(s)
   from the address book; associating telephone number(s), e-mail address(es), physical address(es)
   or other information with a name; associating an image with a name; categorizing and sorting
                                                      28

   1002085164
   names; providing telephone numbers          or e-mail addresses to initiate      and/or facilitate
   communications by telephone 138, video conference 139, e-mail 140, or IM 141; and so forth.
   [00151]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone
   113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text
 5 input module 134, telephone module 138 may be used to enter a sequence of characters
   corresponding to a telephone number, access one or more telephone numbers in address book
   137, modify a telephone number that has been entered, dial a respective telephone number,
   conduct a conversation and disconnect or hang up when the conversation is completed. As noted
   above, the wireless communication may use any of a variety of communications standards,
 0 protocols and technologies.
   [00152]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone
   113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensors 164a-b, optical sensor controller
   158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, contact list 137, and
   telephone module 138, videoconferencing module 139 includes executable instructions to initiate,
 5 conduct, and terminate a video conference between a user and one or more other participants in
   accordance with user instructions.
   [00153]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact
   module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, e-mail client module 140 includes
   executable instructions to create, send, receive, and manage e-mail in response to user
 o instructions. In conjunction with image management module 144, e-mail client module 140
   makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still or video images taken with dual camera
   module 143.
   [00154]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact
   module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, the instant messaging module 141
25 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters corresponding to an instant
   message, to modify previously entered characters, to transmit a respective instant message (for
   example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or Multimedia Message Service (MMS) protocol
   for telephony-based instant messages or using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS for Internet-based
   instant messages), to receive instant messages and to view received instant messages. In some
30 embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant messages may include graphics, photos, audio
   files, video files and/or other attachments as are supported in a MMS and/or an Enhanced
   Messaging Service (EMS). As used herein, "instant messaging" refers to both telephony-based
   messages (e.g., messages sent using SMS or MMS) and Intemet-based messages (e.g., messages
   sent using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS).
                                                   29

   1002085164
   [00155]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact
   module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, map module 154,
   and music player module 146, workout support module 142 includes executable instructions to
   create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or calorie burning goals); communicate with
 5 workout sensors (sports devices); receive workout sensor data; calibrate sensors used to monitor a
   workout; select and play music for a workout; and display, store and transmit workout data.
   [00156]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s) 164,
   optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and image management
   module 144, dual camera module 143 includes executable instructions to capture still images or
 0 video (including a video stream) and store them into memory 102, modify characteristics of a still
   image or video, or delete a still image or video from memory 102.
   [00157]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130,
   graphics module 132, text input module 134, and dual camera module 143, image management
   module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g., edit), or otherwise
 5 manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album), and store still and/or
   video images.
   [00158]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system controller 156,
   contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, browser module 147
   includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in accordance with user instructions,
 o including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying web pages or portions thereof, as well
   as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
   [00159]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system controller 156,
   contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and
   browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes executable instructions to create, display,
25 modify, and store calendars and data associated with calendars (e.g., calendar entries, to do lists,
   etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
   [00160]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system controller 156,
   contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and browser module 147,
   widget modules 149 are mini-applications that may be downloaded and used by a user (e.g.,
30 weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 1493, alarm clock widget 149-4,
   and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the user (e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some
   embodiments, a widget includes an HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading
   Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript file.    In some embodiments, a widget includes an XML
   (Extensible Markup Language) file and a JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
                                                     30

   1002085164
   [00161]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system controller 156,
   contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and browser module 147, the
   widget creator module 150 may be used by a user to create widgets (e.g., turning a user-specified
   portion of a web page into a widget).
 5 [00162]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact module
   130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search module 151 includes executable
   instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video, and/or other files in memory 102 that
   match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more user-specified search terms) in accordance
   with user instructions.
 0 [00163]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact module
   130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, and browser
   module 147, video and music player module 152 includes executable instructions that allow the
   user to download and play back recorded music and other sound files stored in one or more file
   formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and executable instructions to display, present or otherwise
 5 play back videos (e.g., on touch screen 112 or on an external, connected display via external port
   124). In some embodiments, device 100 may include the functionality of an MP3 player, such as
   an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
   [00164]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130,
   graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153 includes executable
 o instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in accordance with user
   instructions.
   [00165]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system controller 156,
   contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, and browser
   module 147, map module 154 may be used to receive, display, modify, and store maps and data
25 associated with maps (e.g., driving directions; data on stores and other points of interest at or near
   a particular location; and other location-based data) in accordance with user instructions.
   [00166]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact module
   130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, text input module
   134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, online video module 155 includes
30 instructions that allow the user to access, browse, receive (e.g., by streaming and/or download),
   play back (e.g., on the touch screen or on an external, connected display via external port 124),
   send an e-mail with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise manage online videos in one
   or more file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments, instant messaging module 141, rather
   than e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link to a particular online video.
                                                     31

   1002085164
   [00167]      Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
   executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the methods
   described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other information
   processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be
 5 implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of
   these modules may be combined or otherwise rearranged in various embodiments. In some
   embodiments, memory 102 may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified
   above. Furthermore, memory 102 may store additional modules and data structures not described
   above.
 0 [00168]      In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined set of
   functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a touchpad. By
   using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device for operation of device
   100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push buttons, dials, and the like) on
   device 100 may be reduced.
 5 [00169]      The predefined set of functions that may be performed exclusively through a touch
   screen and/or a touchpad include navigation between user interfaces. In some embodiments, the
   touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main, home, or root menu from
   any user interface that may be displayed on device 100. In such embodiments, the touchpad may
   be referred to as a "menu button."       In some other embodiments, the menu button may be a
 o physical push button or other physical input control device instead of a touchpad.
   [00170]      FIG. 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen 112 in
   accordance with some embodiments. The touch screen may display one or more graphics within
   user interface (UI) 200. In this embodiment, as well as others described below, a user may select
   one or more of the graphics by making a gesture on the graphics, for example, with one or more
25 fingers 202 (not drawn to scale in the figure) or one or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in
   the figure).
   [00171]      Device 100 may also include one or more physical buttons, such as "home" or menu
   button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 may be used to navigate to any application
   136 in a set of applications that may be executed on device 100. Alternatively, in some
30 embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft key in a GUI displayed on touch screen
   112.
   [00172]      In one embodiment, device 100 includes touch screen 112, menu button 204, push
   button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume adjustment button(s)
   208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head set jack 212, and docking/charging
                                                     32

    1002085164
    external port 124. Push button 206 may be used to turn the power on/off on the device by
    depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed state for a predefined time interval;
    to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing the button before the predefined time
    interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or initiate an unlock process. In an alternative
  5 embodiment, device 100 also may accept verbal input for activation or deactivation of some
    functions through microphone 113.
    [00173]      It should be noted that, although many of the examples herein are given with
    reference to optical sensors / cameras 164a-b (on the front of a device), a rear-facing camera or
    optical sensor that is pointed opposite from the display may be used instead of or in addition to an
  0 optical sensors / cameras 164a-b on the front of a device.
    [00174]      FIG. 3A illustrates a view of an example embodiment of camera module components
    arranged for multiple visual fields usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
    according to at least some embodiments. A portable multifunction device 3080 includes a first
    optical sensor / camera unit 3082 with a first focal length 3090 for capturing a first visual field
 [5 3086 and a second optical sensor / camera unit 3084 with a first focal length 3092 for capturing a
    second visual field 3088.
    [00175]      Some embodiments include a first camera unit 3082 (such as one of the cameras
    described below with respect to FIG. 3B and FIG. 3C) of a multifunction device capturing a first
    image of a first visual field 3086.     A second camera unit 3084 (such as one of the cameras
 !o described below with respect to FIG. 3B and FIG. 3C) of the multifunction device 3080
    simultaneously captures a second image of a second visual field 3088. In some embodiments, the
    first camera unit 3082 includes a first optical package with a first focal length 3090. In some
    embodiments, the second camera unit 3084 includes a second optical package (described below
    with respect to FIG. 3B, below) with a second focal length 3092. In some embodiments, the first
25  focal length 3090 is different from the second focal length 3092, and the first visual field 3086 is
    a subset of the second visual field 3088. In some embodiments, the first image and the second
    image are preserved to a storage medium as separate data structures.
    [00176]      In some embodiments, a camera system of a multifunction device 3080, includes a
    first camera unit 3082 of the multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
30  field 3086.    In some embodiments, the first camera unit 3082 includes a first optical image
    stabilization actuator for moving a first optical package configured for a first focal length 3090.
     The camera system further includes second camera 3084 unit of the multifunction device 3080
    for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field 3088.                 In some
    embodiments, the second camera unit 3084 includes a second optical image stabilization
                                                      33

   1002085164
   actuator for moving a second optical package configured for a second focal length 3092. In
   some embodiments, the first focal length 3090 is different from the second focal length 3092.
   In some embodiments, the first focal length being different from the second focal length
   includes both the first focal length and the second focal length being adjustable ranges, which
 5 may or may not overlap.
   [00177]      Some embodiments assign metadata to the first image of the first visual field 3086
   and the second image of the second visual field 3088 a time indexing feature for establishing
   that the first image of the first visual field 3086 and the second image of the second visual field
   3088 correspond as having been simultaneously captured. Some embodiments display the first
 0 image of the first visual field 3086 in a screen interface with a control for switching to display
   of the second image of the second visual field 3088, and, responsive to an actuation of the
   control, display the second image of the second visual field 3088 in place of the first image.
   Some embodiments generate a synthetic intermediate image at least in part from data of the first
   image of the first visual field 3086 and data of the second image of the second visual field 3088.
 5  In some embodiments, the synthetic intermediate image has a third focal length different from
   each of the first focal length 3090 and the second focal length 3092, and the synthetic
   intermediate image has a third visual field different from each of the first visual field 3086 and
   the second visual field 3088. Some embodiments preserve storage of the first image of the first
   visual field 3086 and data of the second image of the second visual field 3088 after creation of
 o the synthetic intermediate image.
   [00178]      Some embodiments generate a synthetic result image at least in part from data of the
   first image of the first visual field 3086 and data of the second image of the second visual field
   3088. In some embodiments, the synthetic intermediate image has is generated by enhancing
   the first image of the first visual field 3086 using data from the second image of the second
25 visual field 3088. Some embodiments display the first image of the first visual field 3086 and
   the second image of the second visual field 3088 in a shared screen interface.
   [00179]      Some embodiments include a camera system of a multifunction device. In some
   embodiments, the camera system includes a first camera unit 3082 of a multifunction device
   3080 for capturing a first image of a first visual field 3086 and a second camera unit of the
30 multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field 3088.
   In some embodiments, the first camera unit 3082 includes a first optical package configured for
   a first focal length 3090. In some embodiments, the second camera unit 3084 includes a second
   optical package configured for a second focal length 3092. In some embodiments, the first focal
   length 3090 is different from the second focal length 3092.
                                                      34

   1002085164
   [00180]     In some embodiments, the camera system includes a processing unit configured to
   assign to the first image of a first visual field 3086 and the second image a time indexing feature
   for establishing that the first image and the second image of a second visual field 3088 were
   simultaneously captured.     In some embodiments, the first camera unit 3082 includes a lens
 5 having a folded lens configuration (not shown) with a longer focal length 3090 than a focal
   length 3092 of a lens of the second camera unit 3084, and the second visual field 3088 is
   centered on a second visual axis aligned with a first visual axis on which the first visual field
   3086 is centered. In some embodiments, the first camera unit 3082 includes a first moveable
   lens (shown below with respect to FIG. 3B) and a first image sensor attached a chassis of the
 0 camera unit, the second camera unit includes a lens and a second image sensor moveably
   attached a chassis of the second camera unit 3084.
   [00181]     In some embodiments, the first camera unit 3082 includes a first moveable lens and
   a first image sensor attached a chassis of the first 3082 camera unit, and the second camera unit
   3084 includes a lens (shown below with respect to FIG. 3B) and a second image sensor
 5 moveably attached a chassis of the second camera unit. In some embodiments, the first camera
   unit 3082 and the second camera unit 3084 include a first image processing pipeline and a
   second image processing pipeline, respectively.
   [00182]     In some embodiments, the first image and second image are of different media
   types. For example, in some embodiments, the first image is a moving image data structure
 0 captured at a first frame rate. In some embodiments, the second image is a moving image data
   structure captured at a second frame rate. In some embodiments, the second frame rate is faster
   than the first frame rate. In some embodiments, the first image is a still image taken at time
   t(0), and the second image is a moving image data structure captured over a time interval
   including t(0).
25 [00183]     In some embodiments, the first image has a first resolution and the second image has
   a second resolution.     An example of the use of a first image that is a moving image data
   structure at a first frame rate and a second image that is a moving image data structure at a
   second frame rate arises in that some embodiments include second camera module 3084
   recording 720p (also known as 720 pixels of vertical resolution progressive scan) slow motion
30 video at 240 frames per second while first camera module 3082 is capturing 4K (horizontal
   resolution on the order of 4,000 pixels) video at 30 frames per second. In some embodiments,
   the analog-to-digital converter bandwidth required for each separate module to achieve the
   recording is 220-270 Mpixels/s. Achieving the same functionality with conventional single
   camera module technology requires up to 32 times higher analog-to-digital converter bandwidth
                                                       35

   1002085164
   for a single camera module if it is compared to embodiments in which there is a 2x difference in
   focal length from wide to tele module, providing benefits in terms of power, thermal
   dissipation, storage bandwidth, storage capacity, and actual achievable frame rates combined
   with zoom capability.
 5 [00184]     A use case for some embodiments is well-illustrated with respect to sports
   photography. In one example use case, it is possible to imagine a user of portable multifunction
   device 3080 filming a batter in a baseball game. Recording video of the game with portable
   multifunction device 3080 from bleachers, not shown, a user may decide to zoom in to capture a
   batter swinging and hitting the ball in slow motion using second camera module 3084 recording
 0 720p slow motion video at 240 frames per second, but may subsequently want to switch to the
   simultaneously captured 4K video from first camera module 3082 at 30 frames per second of
   resulting home run in high quality video of the full baseball field, to capture the moments where
   the opposing team scrambles to catch the ball and the batter is running from base to base. Some
   embodiments enable this mixed-video capture by simultaneously recording using second
 5 camera module 3084 as a telephoto camera module in a 240 frames per second slow motion
   mode while at the same time using first camera module 3082 as a wide camera module in a 4K
   at 30 frames per second. After capturing a data structure including both video streams the
   awesome moment, some embodiments provide for a mixed-video data structure and an interface
   for the video streams from the two separate camera modules to be manually or automatically
 0 edited and combined to create a more engaging media which may contain normal 1080p video,
   4K high resolution video, 720p motion video, and still images. In the example described above,
   this mixed-video media both captures the close up expressions of players, the peak action in
   slow motion, and frames it all in the context of a great play in a baseball game.
   [00185]     Another example of a use case for some embodiments arises in the context of
25 capturing a child extinguishing candles on a birthday cake.         In such an example, one can
   imagine a child about to blow out the candles on the birthday cake while all her friends are
   singing a birthday song. In some embodiments, second camera module 3084 can be used as a
   telephoto camera module to zoom in on the face of the child as she is about to blow out the
   candles and first camera module 3082 can capture a burst of high resolution still images of her
30 smiling face. In some embodiments, first camera module 3082 is simultaneously capturing
   standard 1080p 30 frames per second video of the entire group of kids gathered and singing
   around the cake.     Some embodiments provide an editing interface for combining the video
   stream from the wide camera module, either manually or automatically, with the close up
   portraits to create a much more engaging media experience which can be shared. As the two
                                                    36

   1002085164
   camera modules are synchronized in time, the still images can easily be automatically inserted
   at the right time in a final video stream.
   [00186]      FIG. 3B illustrates a user interface for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
   according to at least some embodiments. A portable multifunction device 400 displays a first
 5 image of a first visual field 404 captured by a first camera unit and a second image of a second
   visual field 402 simultaneously captured by a second camera unit of the multifunction device
   400. A zoom control 406 is displayed within first image of a first visual field 404. In the
   embodiment shown, zoom control 406 is an area of first image of first visual field 404, that, in
   response to control actuation through the touch screen of portable multifunction device 400, is
 0 used as a control for toggling the display mode for displaying first image of a first visual field
   404 captured by a first camera unit and second image of a second visual field 402
   simultaneously captured by a second camera unit of the multifunction device 400.
   [00187]      Some embodiments assign metadata to the first image 404 and the second image 402
   for a time indexing feature for establishing that the first image 404 and the second image 402
 5 correspond as having been simultaneously captured. Some embodiments display the first image
   404 in a screen interface with a control (e.g., similar to control 406) for switching to display of
   the second image 402, and, responsive to an actuation of the control 406, display the second
   image 402 in place of the first image 404. Some embodiments generate a synthetic intermediate
   image at least in part from data of the first image 404 and data of the second image 402.
 0 [00188]      FIG. 3C depicts a side view of an example embodiment of camera module, according
   to at least some embodiments. Camera module 3000, which is an embodiment of cameras 164a
   b, discussed below includes camera components such as an optics module (e.g., a lens barrel)
   3002 attached to an optics holder 3003 and a magnet holder 3006. An image sensor 3070, which
   may or may not be mounted on a substrate that is not shown separately in FIG. 3, is attached to a
25 camera module base 3008.           The camera components may further include, in addition to
   components such as power and remote control connections not shown, a cover 3012 and
   suspension wires 3020.
   [00189]      Optics module 3002 may be suspended on the base assembly 3008 by suspension of
   the upper springs 3030 and the suspension wires 3020. Camera components may include one or
30 more of, but are not limited to, optics 3002, optics holder 3003, magnet holder(s) 3006, upper
   spring(s) 3030, and lower spring(s) 3032. The upper and lower spring(s) may be collectively
   referred to herein as optics springs.     An optics module (e.g., a lens or lens assembly or lens
   barrel) 3002 may be screwed, mounted or otherwise held in or by an optics holder 3003.          In at
   least some embodiments, the optics 3002/optics holder 3003 assembly may be suspended from or
                                                      37

   1002085164
   attached to the magnet holder 3006 by upper spring(s) 3030, and lower spring(s) 3032. Note that
   upper spring(s) 3030 and lower spring(s) 3032 are flexible to allow the optics assembly 3000 a
   range of motion along the Z (optical) axis for optical focusing, wires 3020 are flexible to allow a
   range of motion on the XY plane orthogonal to the optical axis for optical image stabilization.
 5 [00190]      Note that, in some embodiments, a camera may not include magnets and magnet
   holder(s) 3006, but may include a yoke or other structure 3006 that may be used to help support
   the optics assembly on suspension wires 3020 via upper springs 3030.               In general, other
   embodiments of an optics assembly 3000 may include fewer or more components than the
   example optics assembly 3000 shown in FIG. 3. Also note that, while embodiments show the
 0 optics assembly 3000 suspended on wires 3020, other mechanisms may be used to suspend an
   optics assembly 3000 in other embodiments.
   [00191]      The autofocus yoke (e.g., magnet holder(s) 3006) acts as the support chassis structure
   for the autofocus mechanism of actuator 3000. The lens carrier (optics holder 3003) is suspended
   on the autofocus yoke by an upper autofocus (AF) spring 3030 and a lower optics spring 3032. In
 5 this way when an electric current is applied to the autofocus coil, Lorentz forces are developed
   due to the presence of the four magnets, and a force substantially parallel to the optical axis is
   generated to move the lens carrier, and hence lens, along the optical axis, relative to the support
   structure of the autofocus mechanism of the actuator, so as to focus the lens. In addition to
   suspending the lens carrier and substantially eliminating parasitic motions, the upper spring 3030
 0 and lower spring 3032 also resist the Lorentz forces, and hence convert the forces to a
   displacement of the lens. This basic architecture shown in FIGs 3 is typical of some
   embodiments, in which optical image stabilization function includes moving the entire autofocus
   mechanism of the actuator (supported by the autofocus yoke) in linear directions orthogonal to
   the optical axis, in response to user handshake, as detected by some means, such a two or three
25 axis gyroscope, which senses angular velocity. The handshake of interest is the changing angular
   tilt of the camera in 'pitch and yaw directions', which can be compensated by said linear
   movements of the lens relative to the image sensor.
   [00192]      In at least some embodiments, the suspension of the autofocus mechanism on the
   actuator 3000 support structure may be achieved by the use of four corner wires 3020, for
30 example wires with a circular cross-section. Each wire 3020 acts as a flexure beams capable of
   bending with relatively low stiffness, thus allowing motion in both optical image stabilization
   degrees-of-freedom. However, wire 3020 is in some embodiments relatively stiff in directions
   parallel to the optical axis, as this would require the wire to stretch or buckle, thus substantially
   preventing parasitic motions in these directions. In addition, the presence of four such wires,
                                                     38

   1002085164
   appropriately separated allows them to be stiff in the parasitic tilt directions of pitch and yaw,
   thus substantially preventing relative dynamic tilt between the lens and image sensor. This may
   be seen by appreciating that each wire 3020 is stiff in directions that require it to change in
   length, and hence the fixed points at the ends of each wire (eight points in total) will substantially
 5 form the vertices of a parallelepiped for all operational positions of the optical image stabilization
   mechanism.
   [00193]      FIGs. 4A-D illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including paired side magnet arrays usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
   according to at least some embodiments.
 0 Each of FIGs. 4A-4C includes a different view of a camera unit 400a-c, which is one embodiment
   of a first camera unit or a second camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image
   of a first or second visual field. Each of camera units 400a-c includes one of optics packages
   402a-c and one of optical image stabilization actuators 404a-c for moving the optical package
   402a-c configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths. FIG. 4D is a legend
 5 indicating the motion capability of various components illustrated in each of FIGs. 4A-C.
   [00194]      Optical stabilization actuators 404a-c include magnet arrays 406a-c and 418a-c, which
   include central magnet arrays 406a-c and distal magnet arrays 418a-c.         In some embodiments,
   central magnet arrays 406a-c and distal magnet arrays 418a-c are arranged in opposing and
   mutually-cancelling pairs of magnets. Additionally, in some embodiments, lower magnet arrays
 o 420b-c and upper magnet array 422b are arranged in analogous opposing and mutually-cancelling
   pairs. In some embodiments, the designation of central magnet arrays 406a-c and distal magnet
   arrays 418a-c is arbitrary, with the difference between them being the opposite and mutually
   cancelling arrangement of magnets in the respective arrays.             In some embodiments, the
   designation of central magnet arrays 406a-c and distal magnet arrays 418a-c is defined with
25 respect to a center line between a pair of camera units in a camera system, as described elsewhere
   herein.
   [00195]      As portrayed in FIGs 4A-4D, camera units 400a-c include central magnet arrays 406a
   c, which can be situated along the axis between the optics package of a first camera unit and an
   optics package of a second camera unit.        Central magnet array 406a includes a central upper
30 magnet 410a having a first polarity and a central lower magnet 412a having a polarity antiparallel
   to the first polarity.   Camera units 400a-c also include distal magnet arrays 418a-c situated
   opposite the central magnet arrays 406a-c with respect to the optics packages 402a-c of the
   camera units 400a-c. Distal magnet array 418a includes a distal lower magnet 416a having the
   first polarity and a distal upper magnet 414a having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
                                                     39

    1002085164
    In some embodiments, an optical package or optics module is a set of components (e.g., a lens
    barrel) housing one or more lens elements and other components for connecting a lens to an
    actuator for moving the lens relative to an image sensor.
    [00196]      In some embodiments, camera units 400a-c include distal magnet arrays 418a-c that
  5 are situated opposite the central magnet arrays 406a-c with respect to the optics packages 402a-c
    of the camera units 400a-c and the distal magnet arrays 418a-c include a distal lower magnet
    416a having the first polarity and a distal upper magnet 414a having the polarity antiparallel to
    the first polarity.
    [00197]      In some embodiments, camera units 400a-c include upper autofocus coils 408a-b and
  0 lower autofocus coils 428a attached to optics packages 402a-c for moving optics packages 402a-c
    in any of an X, Y, or Z axis, where, in some embodiments, the Z axis is the optical axis of optics
    packages 402a-c (thus, with at three degrees of freedom). In some embodiments, central magnet
    arrays 406a-c and distal magnet arrays 418a-c interact with upper latitudal SP coils 426a-c and
    lower SP latitudal coils 424a and 424c.         As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily
 [5 comprehend, while specific orientations of magnets.
    [00198]      FIGs. 4E-G depict an example embodiment of camera module components including
    paired side magnet arrays usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
    least some embodiments. Each of FIGs. 4E-4G includes a different view of a camera unit 400e-g,
    which is one embodiment of a first camera unit or a second camera unit of a multifunction device
 !0 for capturing a first image of a first or second visual field. Each of camera units 400e-g includes
    one of optics packages 402e-g and one of optical image stabilization actuators 404e (not labeled
    in FIG. 4F or shown in FIG. 4G) for moving the optical package 402e-g configured for focal
    length or an adjustable range of focal lengths.        FIG. 4H is a legend indicating the motion
    capability of various components illustrated in each of FIGs. 4E-G. As one of skill in the art will
25  readily comprehend in light of having viewed the present disclosure, while particular orientations
    of magnets and directions of current are shown for the embodiments depicted herein, other
    embodiments exist, in which the direction of current and orientations of magnetic poles are
    reversed, and such embodiments are within the scope and intent of the present disclosure.
    [00199]      Optical stabilization actuator 404e includes magnet arrays 406e-f and 418e-f, which
30  include central magnet arrays 406e-f and distal magnet arrays 418e-f. In some embodiments,
    central magnet arrays 406e-f and distal magnet arrays 418e-f are arranged in opposing and
    mutually-cancelling pairs of magnets. Additionally, in some embodiments, lower magnet arrays
    420f and upper magnet array 422f are arranged in analogous opposing and mutually-cancelling
    pairs. In some embodiments, the designation of central magnet arrays 406e-f and distal magnet
                                                      40

   1002085164
   arrays 418e-f is arbitrary, with the difference between them being the opposite and mutually
   cancelling arrangement of magnets in the respective arrays.            In some embodiments, the
   designation of central magnet arrays 406e-f and distal magnet arrays 418e-f is defined with
   respect to a center line between a pair of camera units in a camera system, as described elsewhere
 5 herein.
   [00200]      As portrayed in FIGs 4E-4G, camera units 400e-g include central magnet arrays 406e
   f, which can be situated along the axis between the optics package of a first camera unit and an
   optics package of a second camera unit.       Central magnet array 406e includes a central upper
   magnet 410e having a first polarity and a central lower magnet 412e having a polarity antiparallel
 0 to the first polarity.    Camera units 400e-f also include distal magnet arrays 418e-f situated
   opposite the central magnet arrays 406e-f with respect to the optics packages 402e-g of the
   camera units 400e-g. Distal magnet array 418e includes a distal lower magnet 416e having the
   first polarity and a distal upper magnet 414e having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [00201]      In some embodiments, camera units 400e-g include distal magnet arrays 418a-c that
 5 are situated opposite the central magnet arrays 406a-c with respect to the optics packages 402a-c
   of the camera units 400e-f and the distal magnet arrays 418e-f include a distal lower magnet 416e
   having the first polarity and a distal upper magnet 414e having the polarity antiparallel to the first
   polarity.
   In some embodiments, camera units 400e-g include upper autofocus coils 408e-f and lower
 o autofocus coils 428e attached to optics packages 402e-f for moving optics packages 402e-f in any
   of an X, Y, or Z axis, where, in some embodiments, the Z axis is the optical axis of optics
   packages 402e-f (thus, with at three degrees of freedom). In some embodiments, central magnet
   arrays 406e-f and distal magnet arrays 418e-f interact with central coils 426e and 426g and radial
   SP coils 424e-g.
25 [00202]      FIGs. 41-L illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including paired side magnet arrays usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom,
   according to at least some embodiments. Each of FIGs. 41-4K includes a different view of a
   camera unit 400i-k, which is one embodiment of a first camera unit or a second camera unit of a
   multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first or second visual field. Each of camera
30 units 400i-k includes one of optics packages 402i-k and one of optical image stabilization
   actuators 404i (not labeled in FIG. 4J or shown in FIG. 4K) for moving the optical package 402i-j
   configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths. FIG. 4L is a legend indicating
   the motion capability of various components illustrated in each of FIGs. 41-J.
                                                    41

   1002085164
   [00203]      Optical stabilization actuator 404i includes magnet arrays 406i-j and 418i-j, which
   include central magnet arrays 406i-j and distal magnet arrays 418i-j.         In some embodiments,
   central magnet arrays 406i-j and distal magnet arrays 418i-j are arranged in opposing and
   mutually-cancelling pairs of magnets. Additionally, in some embodiments, lower magnet array
 5 420j and upper magnet array 422j are arranged in analogous opposing and mutually-cancelling
   pairs. In some embodiments, the designation of central magnet arrays 406i-j and distal magnet
   arrays 418i-j is arbitrary, with the difference between them being the opposite and mutually
   cancelling arrangement of magnets in the respective arrays.             In some embodiments, the
   designation of central magnet arrays 406i-j and distal magnet arrays 418i-j is defined with respect
 0 to a center line between a pair of camera units in a camera system, as described elsewhere herein.
   [00204]      As portrayed in FIGs 4i-4k, camera units 400i-k include central magnet arrays 406i-j,
   which can be situated along the axis between the optics package of a first camera unit and an
   optics package of a second camera unit.        Central magnet array 406i includes a central upper
   magnet 410i having a first polarity and a central lower magnet 412i having a polarity antiparallel
 5 to the first polarity. Camera units 400i-j also include distal magnet arrays 418i-j situated opposite
   the central magnet arrays 406i-j with respect to the optics packages 402i-j of the camera units
   400i-j. Distal magnet array 418i includes a distal lower magnet 416i having the first polarity and
   a distal upper magnet 414i having the polarity antiparallel to the first polarity.
   [00205]      In some embodiments, camera units 400i-j include distal magnet arrays 418i-j that are
 0 situated opposite the central magnet arrays 406i-i with respect to the optics packages 402i-j of the
   camera units 400i-j and the distal magnet arrays 418i-j include a distal lower magnet 416i having
   the first polarity and a distal upper magnet 414i having the polarity antiparallel to the first
   polarity.
   [00206]      In some embodiments, camera units 400i-j include upper autofocus coils 408i-j and
25 lower autofocus coils 428j attached to optics packages 402i-j for moving optics packages 402i-j
   in any of an X, Y, or Z axis, where, in some embodiments, the Z axis is the optical axis of optics
   packages 402e-f (thus, with at three degrees of freedom). In some embodiments, central magnet
   arrays 406i-j and distal magnet arrays 418i-j interact with top SP coils 426i-j and lower SP coils
   424i and 424k.
30 [00207]      FIG. 5 depicts an example embodiment of camera modules including corner magnets
   in a shared magnet holder usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
   least some embodiments.
   [00208]      In some embodiments, the VCM applies the same OIS correction to both modules
   together at any given time. In some embodiments, OIS correction is a function of focal length
                                                     42

   1002085164
   and is different for the two modules. Thus, at any given moment the VCM can stabilize only one
   module.
   [00209]      In some embodiments, video capture involves shooting with only one lens at a time
   and the VCM can successfully command OIS correction as user switches between the 1x and 4x
 5 lenses.
   [00210]      In some embodiments, image fusion combines the wide field of view from a 1x lens
   and the narrow focus from a 4x lens to produce a wide angle image with extra detail and
   sharpness around the subject (image center). It can also be used to generate depth data (stereo
   vision). In some embodiments, dual OIS solution allows commanding different corrections on the
 0 two OIS modules simultaneously. In some embodiments, in fast exposure and shots with low
   subject motion, the two OIS corrections can be applied in succession producing the same effect.
   [00211]      A dual camera unit 500 includes one embodiment of a first camera unit 502a and a
   second camera unit 502b of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first or second
   visual field. Each of camera units 500a-b includes one of optics packages (circular feature) 504a
 5 b and one of optical image stabilization actuators 506a-b using autofocus coils 520a-b for moving
   the optical package 506a-b configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths.
   [00212]      In some embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit 500 includes a shared
   magnet holder 508 to which are attached one or more magnets 51 0a-516a of the first camera unit
   and one or more magnets 51Ob-51 6b of the second camera unit used to generate magnetic fields
 0 usable in creating motion in one or more of the first camera actuator 506a and the second camera
   actuator 506b. In some embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit 500 includes a
   shared magnet holder 508 to which are attached one or more diagonal-angled corner magnets
   51 0a-516a of the first camera unit and one or more diagonal-angled corner magnets 5lOb-516b of
   the second camera unit used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or more
25 of the first camera actuator 506a and the second camera actuator 506b, though other
   embodiments may employ shared magnet holder 508 with linear magnet pairs or linear magnets
   as described elsewhere herein.
   [00213]      FIGs.    6A-E illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including shared magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
30 least some embodiments. In some embodiments, by using side magnets the VCMs can share one
   magnet between the two modules. In some embodiments, a shared magnet helps reduce the lens
   center to center distance i.e. parallax reduction (as well as over all size. A square design also
   permits symmetric dynamics. In some embodiments, the VCM applies the same OIS correction
   to both modules together at any given time. In some embodiments, OIS correction is a function of
                                                    43

   1002085164
   focal length and is different for the two modules. Thus, at any given moment the VCM in some
   embodiments stabilizes only one module.
   [00214]      In some embodiments, capture involves shooting with only one lens at a time and the
   VCM can successfully command OIS correction as user switches between the 1x and 4x lenses.
 5 In some embodiments, image fusion combines the wide field of view from the 1x lens and the
   narrow focus from the 4x lens to produce a wide angle image with extra detail and sharpness
   around the subject (image center). In some embodiments, it can also be used to generate depth
   data (stereo vision).
   [00215]      A dual camera unit 600a-e includes one embodiment of a first camera unit 602a-e and
 0 a second camera unit 618a-d of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first or
   second visual field. Each of camera units 602a-e and 618a-d includes one of optics packages
   604b-e and 606b-d and actuator components for moving the optical packages 604b-e and 606b-d
   configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths. In some embodiments, the
   camera system of dual camera unit 600a-e includes a shared magnet holder 608a-e to which are
 5 attached one or more shared magnets 620a and one or more unshared magnets 610a-612a of the
   first camera unit 602a-e and one or more magnets 613a-615a of the second camera unit 618a-d
   used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or more of the first camera unit
   602a-e and the second camera unit 618a-d. In some embodiments, the camera system of dual
   camera unit 600a-e includes coils 630a-638e of the first camera unit 602a-e and one or more coils
 0 640a-648e of the second camera unit used to generate force usable in creating motion in one or
   more of the first camera unit 602a-e and the second camera unit 618a-d. Suspension wires 650c
   652e and a covering can 654b-e are also shown. In some embodiments, coil 636b-d and coil
   646b-d are a single shared coil. In some embodiments, shared magnet holder 608a-e is a pair of
   separate units articulated together.
25 [00216]      FIGs.    7A-C illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including shared magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at
   least some embodiments. A dual camera unit 700a-c includes one embodiment of a first camera
   unit 702a-c and a second camera unit 718a-b of a multifunction device for capturing a first image
   of a first or second visual field. Each of camera units 702a-c and 718a-b includes one of optics
30 packages 704a-c and 706a-b and actuator components for moving the optical packages 704a-c
   and 706a-b configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths.           In some
   embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit 700a-c includes a shared magnet holder
   708a-b to which are attached one or more shared magnets 720a and one or more unshared
   magnets 710a-712a of the first camera unit 702a-c and one or more magnets 713a-715a of the
                                                   44

   1002085164
   second camera unit 718a-b used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or
   more of the first camera unit 702a-c and the second camera unit 718a-d. In some embodiments,
   the indicated magnetic field directions of all of shared magnet 720a and one or more unshared
   magnets 710a-712a of the first camera unit 702a-c are oriented inward toward optics packages
 5 704a-c while the indicated magnetic field directions of all of shared magnet 720a and one or more
   magnets 713a-715a of the second camera unit 718a-b are oriented outward away from optics
   packages 704a-b.
   [00217]     In some embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit 700a-e includes coils
   730a-736c of the first camera unit 702a-c and one or more coils 740a-744b of the second camera
 0 unit used to generate force usable in creating motion in one or more of the first camera unit 702a
   c and the second camera unit 718a-b. Suspension wires 750c and a covering can 754a-c are also
   shown. In some embodiments, coil 746a-b is a single shared coil. In some embodiments, shared
   magnet holder 708a-b is a pair of separate units articulated together.
   [00218]     FIGs.    8A-E illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
 5 including stationary magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to
   at least some embodiments. In some embodiments, the VCM architecture of FIGs. 8A-E is based
   on a stationary magnet design, allowing for two OIS VCMs to be placed side to side with reduced
   stroke loss due to magnetic interactions between the two. In some embodiments, the VCMs can
   be used to independently command the required OIS corrections on the two modules.
 0 [00219]      In some embodiments, the current design allows for inclusion of 3 different
   independent drive channels (Drive X, Drive Y, Drive Z) and a 4th Auxiliary channel for Zoom or
   Electrochromic aperture.
   [00220]     Camera units 802a-c include one embodiment of a first camera unit and/or a second
   camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first or second visual field.
25 Each of camera units 802a-c includes one of optics carriers 804a-b containing an optics package
   and actuator components for moving the optical packages in optics carriers 804a-b configured for
   focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths.
   [00221]     In some embodiments, the camera systems of camera units 802a-c include one or
   more stationary magnets 81 Oa-816a of the camera units 802a-c to generate magnetic fields usable
30 in creating motion in one or more of the camera unit 802a-c.
   [00222]     In some embodiments, the camera system of camera units 802a-c includes coils 830b
   832b set in a coil base 828a-c and coil holder 826a-b of the camera unit 802a-c used to generate
   force usable in creating motion in the camera unit 802a-c. Suspension and control wires 858a
   872b provide for both suspension and transmission of control and data signals. A coil race track
                                                    45

   1002085164
   832b-838c and a base 840b-c are also shown. Wires 870a-872a provide AF (+/-) signals. Wires
   858a-860a provide Aux (+/-) signals. Wires 862a-864a provide SPX (+/-) signals. Wires 866a
   868a provide SPY (+/-) signals.
   [00223]     FIG. 8E contains a legend for understanding the various parts of FIGs. 8A-8C. FIG.
 5 8D shows articulation of control wires 862a-864a to frames 888d-890d.
   [00224]     FIGs. 9A-D depict an example embodiment of camera module components including
   stationary magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to at least
   some embodiments. Dual camera units 900a-c include embodiments of a first camera unit 902a-c
   and a second camera unit 918a-c of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first or
 0 second visual field.
   [00225]     Each of camera units 902a-c and 918a-c includes one of optics packages 904a-b and
   909a-b and actuator components for moving the optical packages 904a-b and 909a-b configured
   for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths.
   [00226]     In some embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit 900a-c includes
 5 independent magnet holders 907a-908b to which are attached one or more one or more unshared
   magnets 910a-913c of the first camera unit 902a-c and one or more magnets 914a-917c of the
   second camera unit 918a-c used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or
   more of the first camera unit 902a-c and the second camera unit 918a-c. In some embodiments,
   the camera system of dual camera unit 900a-c includes coils 932b-934b of the first camera unit
 0 902b and one or more coils 936b-938b of the second camera unit used to generate force usable in
   creating motion in one or more of the first camera unit 902a-c and the second camera unit 918a-c.
   Suspension wires 950a-964b are also shown. Coil bases 980a-982c, actuator bases 990b-992c,
   and SP coil race tracks 970b-978c. FIG. 9D is a legend illustrating the components of FIGs. 9A
   9C.
25 [00227]     FIGs.    10A-D illustrate an example embodiment of camera module components
   including stationary magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to
   at least some embodiments. Dual camera units 1000a-c include embodiments of a first camera
   unit 1002a-c sharing a magnet 1015a-1015c a second camera unit 1018a-c of a multifunction
   device for capturing a first image of a first or second visual field.
30 [00228]     Each of camera units 1002a-c and 1018a-c includes one of optics packages 1004a-b
   and 1009a-b and actuator components for moving the optical packages 1004a-b and 1009a-b
   configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal lengths.
   [00229]     In some embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit 1000a-c includes
   independent magnet holders 1007a-1008b to which are attached one or more one or more
                                                      46

   1002085164
   unshared magnets 101Oa-1013c of the first camera unit 1002a-c and one or more magnets 1014a
   c, shared magnets 1015a-c and 1016a-1017c of the second camera unit 1018a-c used to generate
   magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or more of the first camera unit 1002a-c and the
   second camera unit 1018a-c.       In some embodiments, the camera system of dual camera unit
 5 1000a-c includes coils 1032b-1034b of the first camera unit 1002b and one or more coils 1036b
   1038b of the second camera unit used to generate force usable in creating motion in one or more
   of the first camera unit 1002a-c and the second camera unit 1018a-c. Suspension wires 1050a
   1064b are also shown. Coil bases 1080a-1082c, actuator bases 1090b-1092c, and SP coil race
   tracks 1070b-1078c. FIG. 1OD is a legend illustrating the components of FIGs. 10A-10C.
 0 [00230]      FIGs.    11 A-C depict an example embodiment of camera module components
   including shielded magnets usable for a multiple camera system for portable zoom, according to
   at least some embodiments.        Some embodiments use high permeability metal to shield the
   magnetic field restricting it to stay within the magnet holder, thereby limiting undesirable
   interaction forces or disturbances from nearby magnetic materials or stray fields from other
 5 electro magnetic devices. An example using high permeability 1010 steel is shown in FIGs. 11 A
   1 IC. In some embodiments, shielding material is coated or glued or insert molded into a plastic
   magnet holder. In some embodiments, shielding material is used to make the entire magnet
   holder (e.g., in metal injection molding).
   [00231]      Each of camera units 1 102a-1 104a includes one of optics carriers 1 106a, 1 106b and
 0 1108a containing an optics package and actuator components for moving the optical packages in
   optics carriers 1106a-b and 1108a configured for focal length or an adjustable range of focal
   lengths.
   [00232]      In some embodiments, the camera systems of camera units 1 102a-1 104a include one
   or more magnets 111 Oa- 111 6a and 111 Ob of the camera units 11 02a- 1104a with metallic shields
25  1120a-1126a and 1120b of thickness t 1128b set in magnet holders 1130a-1136a and 1130b to
   generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or more of the camera unit 1102a
   1 104a. In some embodiments, camera units 1 102a-1 104a operate independently.
   [00233]      In some embodiments, the camera system of camera units 1102a-c includes coils
   1 140a-1 146a and 1 140b set in a coil base 11211 a-c and coil holder 1 126a-b of the camera unit
30 1102a-c used to generate force usable in creating motion in the camera unit 1102a-c for
   movement relative to bases 1152a-1 154a. FIG. 1 IC is a legend for use with FIGs. 11 A- 11B.
   [00234]      FIGs. 12A-G depict example embodiments of camera module components including
   arrays of magnets omitting a center magnet between modules and usable for a multiple camera
   system for portable zoom, according to at least some embodiments.       Some embodiments use a
                                                   47

   1002085164
   magnet arrangement that enables side by side (dual) Optical Image Stabilization (OIS) camera
   modules in portable devices, with minimal magnetic interaction between adjacent modules.
   [00235]      While other magnet arrangements described herein have four total magnets: one in
   each comer of the module or one along each side of the module, the embodiments described
 5 below and illustrated in FIGs. 12A-G include a single side magnet on one side and four total
   magnets on the adjacent sides, each pair with opposite polarity, which totals five magnets per
   module. The remaining single side (e.g., center between the two actuators) does not have a
   permanent magnet. In some embodiments, opposing polarity magnets function to contain the
   fringing flux field, which might otherwise be a a primary source of interaction forces between
 0 adjacent camera modules. Such embodiments reduce the interaction forces.
   [00236]      In some embodiments, each of FIGs. 12A-12G includes a view of a set of magnets (or
   a set of magnets and coils) usable for a dual camera unit, which unit is one embodiment of a first
   camera unit and a second camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a
   first or second visual field. In some embodiments, magnets 1202a-g are lateral magnets of a first
 5 camera unit. In some embodiments, magnets 1204a-g are lateral magnets of a second camera
   unit. In some embodiments, the camera systems 1200a-g each include a first pair of first actuator
   transverse magnets 1206a-g and 1208a-g situated opposite one another with respect to an axis
   between lateral magnets 1202a-g and lateral magnets 1204a-g. In some embodiments, the camera
   systems 1200a-g further each comprise a second pair of first actuator transverse magnets 121 Oa-g
 0 and 1212a-g situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between lateral magnets 1202a
   g and lateral magnets 1204a-g.
   [00237]      In some embodiments, the camera systems 1200a-g each further include a first pair of
   second actuator transverse magnets 1226a-g and 1228a-g situated opposite one another with
   respect to an axis between lateral magnets 1202a-g and lateral magnets 1204a-g.           In some
25 embodiments, the camera systems 1200a-g each further include a second pair of second actuator
   transverse magnets 1230a-g and 1232a-g situated opposite one another with respect to an axis
   between lateral magnets 1202a-g and lateral magnets 1204a-g. In some embodiments, magnets
   1230a-g, 1226a-g, 1208a-g, and 1210a-g are oriented with a first polarity antiparallel to a second
   polarity with which magnets 1228a-g, 1226a-g, 1206a-g and 1212a-g are oriented.
30 [00238]      In some embodiments, magnets 1206a-g and 1210a-g are arrayed in a pair with
   polarities opposite one another, and magnets 1232a-g and 1226a-g are arrayed in a pair with
   polarities opposite one another. In some embodiments, magnets 1206a-g and 1210a-g are arrayed
   in a pair with polarities opposite one another, and magnets 1232a-g and 1226a-g are arrayed in a
   pair with polarities opposite one another. In some embodiments, OIS coils 1240a-g interact with
                                                    48

   1002085164
   magnetic fields generated by respective ones of magnets 1202a-g -1232a-g.       Some embodiments
   of orientations 1252b-c-1258b-c are provided in FIGs. 12B-C. In some embodiments, autofocus
   coils 1282e-1288g interact with magnetic fields generated by respective ones of magnets 1202a-g
   -1232a-g.    Note that magnetic field orientations within any of FIGs. 12A-G may differ from
 5 magnetic field orientations of any other of FIGs. 12A-G, such that the use of "first orientation" or
   "second orientation" is arbitrary as between diagrams and represents many possible embodiments
   without departing from the scope or intent of the disclosure contained herein.
   [00239]     FIGs. 13A-B depict example embodiments of camera module components including
   arrays of magnets omitting a center magnet between modules and usable for a multiple camera
 0 system for portable zoom, according to at least some embodiments.
   [00240]     In some embodiments, each of FIGs. 13A-13B includes a view of a set of magnets
   usable for a dual camera unit, which unit is one embodiment of a first camera unit and a second
   camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first or second visual field.
   In some embodiments, magnets 1302a-b are lateral magnets of a first camera unit. In some
 5 embodiments, magnets 1304a-b are lateral magnets of a second camera unit.                  In some
   embodiments, the camera systems 1300a-b each include a first pair of first actuator transverse
   magnets 1306a-b and 1308a-b situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between
   lateral magnets 1302a-b and lateral magnets 1304a-b. In some embodiments, the camera systems
   1300a-b further each comprise a second pair of first actuator transverse magnets 1310a and 1313a
 0 situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between lateral magnets 1302a-b and lateral
   magnets 1304a-b.
   [00241]     In some embodiments, the camera systems 1300a-b each further include a first pair of
   second actuator transverse magnets 1326a and 1328a situated opposite one another with respect
   to an axis between lateral magnets 1302a-b and lateral magnets 1304a-b. In some embodiments,
25 the camera systems 1300a-b each further include a second pair of second actuator transverse
   magnets 1330a-b and 1332a-b situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between
   lateral magnets 1302a-b and lateral magnets 1304a-b. In some embodiments, magnets 1330a-b,
   1326a, 1306a-b, and 1313a are oriented with a first polarity 1352b antiparallel to a second
   polarity 1354b with which magnets 1328a, 1332a-b, 1310a and 1308a-b are oriented.
30 [00242]     In some embodiments, magnets 1306a-b and 1310a are arrayed in a pair with
   polarities opposite one another, and magnets 1332a-b and 1326a are arrayed in a pair with
   polarities opposite one another. In some embodiments, magnets 1306a-b and 1310a are arrayed
   in a pair with polarities opposite one another, and magnets 1332a-b and 1326a are arrayed in a
   pair with polarities opposite one another.
                                                   49

    1002085164
    [00243]      FIG. 14A is a flow chart of a method usable in a multiple camera system for portable
    zoom, according to at least some embodiments. A first camera unit of a multifunction device,
    having a first optical package with a first focal length, captures a first image of a first visual field
    (block 1400). A second camera unit of the multifunction device, having a second optical package
  5 with a second focal length different from the first focal length simultaneously captures a second
    image of a second visual field that is a subset of the first visual field (block 1402). The first
    image and the second image are preserved to a storage medium as separate data structures (block
    1404). The first image is displayed in a screen interface with a control for switching to display of
    the second image (block 1406). Responsive to an actuation of the control, the second image is
 t0 displayed in place of the first image (block 1408).
    [00244]      FIG. 14B is a flow chart of a method usable in a multiple camera system for portable
    zoom, according to at least some embodiments. A first camera unit of a multifunction device,
    having a first optical package with a first focal length, captures a first image of a first visual field
    (block 1410). A second camera unit of the multifunction device, having a second optical package
 ts with a second focal length different from the first focal length simultaneously captures a second
    image of a second visual field that is a subset of the first visual field (block 1412). Optical image
    stabilization is provided to the first camera unit (block 1414).        Optical image stabilization is
    provided to the second camera unit (block 1414).
  0 Example Computer System
    [00245]      FIG. 15 illustrates an example computer system 1500 that may be configured to
    execute any or all of the embodiments described above. In different embodiments, computer
    system 1500 may be any of various types of devices, including, but not limited to, a personal
25  computer system, desktop computer, laptop, notebook, tablet, slate, pad, or netbook computer,
    mainframe computer system, handheld computer, workstation, network computer, a camera, a set
    top box, a mobile device, a consumer device, video game console, handheld video game device,
    application server, storage device, a television, a video recording device, a peripheral device such
    as a switch, modem, router, or in general any type of computing or electronic device.
30  [00246]      Various embodiments of a dual-prime camera system as described herein, including
    embodiments of single frame camera active optical tilt alignment correction, as described herein
    may be executed in one or more computer systems 1500, which may interact with various other
    devices.    Note that any component, action, or functionality described above with respect to
    Figures 1-10 may be implemented on one or more computers configured as computer system
                                                      50

   1002085164
   1500 of FIG. 15, according to various embodiments. In the illustrated embodiment, computer
   system 1500 includes one or more processors 1510 coupled to a system memory 1520 via an
   input/output (1/0) interface 1530. Computer system 1500 further includes a network interface
   1540 coupled to I/O interface 1530, and one or more input/output devices 1550, such as cursor
 5 control device 1560, keyboard 1570, and display(s) 1580. In some cases, it is contemplated that
   embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system 1500, while in
   other embodiments multiple such systems, or multiple nodes making up computer system 1500,
   may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example, in one
   embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system
 0 1500 that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.
   [00247]      In various embodiments, computer system 1500 may be a uniprocessor system
   including one processor 1510, or a multiprocessor system including several processors 1510 (e.g.,
   two, four, eight, or another suitable number).  Processors 1510 may be any suitable processor
   capable of executing instructions. For example, in various embodiments processors 1510 may be
 5 general-purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set
   architectures (ISAs), such as the x86, PowerPC, SPARC, or MIPS ISAs, or any other suitable
   ISA. In multiprocessor systems, each of processors 1510 may commonly, but not necessarily,
   implement the same ISA.
   [00248]      System memory 1520 may be configured to store camera control program instructions
 0 1522 and/or camera control data accessible by processor 1510. In various embodiments, system
   memory 1520 may be implemented using any suitable memory technology, such as static random
   access     memory (SRAM),      synchronous  dynamic   RAM (SDRAM),        nonvolatile/Flash-type
   memory, or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment, program instructions 1522
   may be configured to implement a lens control application 1524 incorporating any of the
25 functionality described above. Additionally, existing camera control data 1532 of memory 1520
   may include any of the information or data structures described above. In some embodiments,
   program instructions and/or data may be received, sent or stored upon different types of
   computer-accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory 1520 or computer
   system 1500.     While computer system 1500 is described as implementing the functionality of
30 functional blocks of previous Figures, any of the functionality described herein may be
   implemented via such a computer system.
   [00249]      In one embodiment, I/O interface 1530 may be configured to coordinate 1/0 traffic
   between processor 1510, system memory 1520, and any peripheral devices in the device,
   including network interface 1540 or other peripheral interfaces, such as input/output devices
                                                  51

   1002085164
   1550. In some embodiments, 11O interface 1530 may perform any necessary protocol, timing or
   other data transformations to convert data signals from one component (e.g., system memory
   1520) into a format suitable for use by another component (e.g., processor 1510).         In some
   embodiments, 11O interface 1530 may include support for devices attached through various types
 5 of peripheral buses, such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus
   standard or the Universal Serial Bus (USB) standard, for example. In some embodiments, the
   function of I/O interface 1530 may be split into two or more separate components, such as a north
   bridge and a south bridge, for example.         Also, in some embodiments some or all of the
   functionality of 11O interface 1530, such as an interface to system memory 1520, may be
 0 incorporated directly into processor 1510.
   [00250]     Network interface 1540 may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between
   computer system 1500 and other devices attached to a network 1585 (e.g., carrier or agent
   devices) or between nodes of computer system 1500.               Network    1585 may in various
   embodiments include one or more networks including but not limited to Local Area Networks
 5 (LANs) (e.g., an Ethernet or corporate network), Wide Area Networks (WANs) (e.g., the
   Internet), wireless data networks, some other electronic data network, or some combination
   thereof. In various embodiments, network interface 1540 may support communication via wired
   or wireless general data networks, such as any suitable type of Ethernet network, for example; via
   telecommunications/telephony     networks such as analog voice networks           or digital fiber
 0 communications networks; via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs, or via any
   other suitable type of network and/or protocol.
   [00251]     Input/output devices 1550 may, in some embodiments, include one or more display
   terminals, keyboards, keypads, touchpads, scanning devices, voice or optical recognition devices,
   or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems
25 1500. Multiple input/output devices 1550 may be present in computer system 1500 or may be
   distributed on various nodes of computer system 1500.             In some embodiments, similar
   input/output devices may be separate from computer system 1500 and may interact with one or
   more nodes of computer system 1500 through a wired or wireless connection, such as over
   network interface 1540.
30 [00252]     As shown in FIG. 15, memory 1520 may include program instructions 1522, which
   may be processor-executable to implement any element or action described above.             In one
   embodiment, the program instructions may implement the methods described above. In other
   embodiments, different elements and data may be included. Note that data may include any data
   or information described above.
                                                    52

   1002085164
   [00253]       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system 1500 is merely
   illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular, the computer
   system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the
   indicated functions, including computers, network devices, Internet appliances, PDAs, wireless
 5 phones, pagers, etc. Computer system 1500 may also be connected to other devices that are not
   illustrated, or instead may operate as a stand-alone system. In addition, the functionality provided
   by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or
   distributed in additional components. Similarly, in some embodiments, the functionality of some
   of the illustrated components may not be provided and/or other additional functionality may be
 0 available.
   [00254]       Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that, while various items are illustrated as
   being stored in memory or on storage while being used, these items or portions of them may be
   transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and
   data integrity. Alternatively, in other embodiments some or all of the software components may
 5 execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via
   inter-computer communication.        Some or all of the system components or data structures may
   also be stored (e.g., as instructions or structured data) on a computer-accessible medium or a
   portable article to be read by an appropriate drive, various examples of which are described
   above.     In some embodiments, instructions stored on a computer-accessible medium separate
 o from computer system 1500 may be transmitted to computer system 1500 via transmission media
   or signals such as electrical, electromagnetic, or digital signals, conveyed via a communication
   medium such as a network and/or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include
   receiving, sending or storing instructions and/or data implemented in accordance with the
   foregoing description upon a computer-accessible medium.            Generally speaking, a computer
25 accessible medium may include a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium or memory
   medium such as magnetic or optical media, e.g., disk or DVD/CD-ROM, volatile or non-volatile
   media such as RAM (e.g. SDRAM, DDR, RDRAM, SRAM, etc.), ROM, etc.                              In some
   embodiments, a computer-accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as
   electrical, electromagnetic, or digital signals, conveyed via a communication medium such as
30 network and/or a wireless link.
   [00255]       The methods described herein may be implemented in software, hardware, or a
   combination thereof, in different embodiments.          In addition, the order of the blocks of the
   methods may be changed, and various elements may be added, reordered, combined, omitted,
   modified, etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person
                                                      53

    1002085164
    skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. The various embodiments described herein
    are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations, modifications, additions, and
    improvements are possible.            Accordingly, plural instances may be provided for components
    described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components, operations and
 5  data stores are somewhat arbitrary, and particular operations are illustrated in the context of
    specific illustrative configurations.
    [00256]         Additional descriptions of embodiments:
    CLAUSE 1: A camera system of a multifunction device, including:
               a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
 0                      field, wherein
                        the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package
                                 configured for a first focal length; and
               a second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second
                        image of a second visual field, wherein
 5                      the second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical
                                 package configured for a second focal length
                        the second actuator includes a second actuator lateral magnet;
               the first optical package and the second optical package are situated between the first
                        actuator later magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet along an axis between
 !0                     the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet;
               no actuator lateral magnets are situated between the first optical package and the second
                        optical package along the axis.
    CLAUSE 2: The camera system of clause 1, wherein the first actuator lateral magnet and the
25  second actuator lateral magnet have polarities aligned antiparallel to one another.
    CLAUSE 3: The camera system of any of clauses 1-2, wherein
                    the first camera unit and the second camera unit each include a respective first pair of
                        first actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect to the
30                      axis between the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral
                        magnet; and
                    the first camera unit and the second camera unit each include a respective second pair
                        of first actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one another with respect to
                                                            54

    1002085164
                       the axis between the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral
                       magnet.
    CLAUSE 4: The camera system of clause 3, wherein
  5                    the magnets of the respective first pair of first actuator transverse magnets have
                                polarity alignments parallel to the respective alignments of corresponding
                                respective magnets of the first pair of second actuator transverse magnets.
    CLAUSE 5: The camera system of clause 3, wherein
 to                    the magnets of the respective first pair of first actuator transverse magnets have
                                polarity alignments antiparallel to the respective alignments of
                                corresponding respective magnets of the first pair of second actuator
                                transverse magnets.
 [5
    CLAUSE 6: The camera system of clause 5, wherein
                       the first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet have
 !o                             polarities aligned at right angles to polarities of the respective first pair of
                                first actuator transverse magnets.
    CLAUSE 7: The camera system of any of clauses 1-6, further including
                       coils aligned with current circulating in a plane parallel to a plane in which the
25                              first actuator lateral magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet have
                                polarities aligned.
    CLAUSE 8: A camera unit of a multifunction device, including:
               an optical package;
30             an actuator for moving the optical package to a first focal length, wherein the actuator
                       includes
                       a lateral magnet to one side of the optical package,
                                                           55

    1002085164
                        a first pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated on sides opposite one
                                 another with respect to an axis between the optical package and the lateral
                                 magnet, wherein
                                 the lateral magnet is situated one on one side of the optical package at
 5                                        which no transverse magnets are present; and
               wherein no actuator lateral magnet is situated on a remaining side of the optical package
                        at which nether the lateral magnet nor the transverse magnets are situated.
    CLAUSE 9: The camera unit of clause 8, further including:
 0             coils aligned with current circulating in a plane parallel to a plane in which the lateral
                        magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned.
    CLAUSE 10: The camera unit of any of clauses 8-9, further including:
               coils aligned with current circulating in a plane perpendicular to a plane in which the
 5                      lateral magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned.
    CLAUSE 11: The camera unit of any of clauses 8-10, further including:
 !o                     a second pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one another
                                 with respect to the axis between the lateral magnet and the optical package.
    CLAUSE 12: The camera unit of clause 11, further including:
               the magnets of the first pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel to
25                      one another.
    CLAUSE 13: The camera unit of clause 11, further including:
               the magnets of the second pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel
                        to one another.
30
    CLAUSE 14: The camera unit of clause 11, further including:
               the magnets of the first pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel to
                        magnets of the second pair of transverse magnets situated on a same side of the
                        axis between the lateral magnet and the optical package.
                                                             56

    1002085164
    CLAUSE 15: An actuator, including:
               a lateral magnet for moving an optical package, wherein the lateral magnet is situated to
                        one side of the optical package,
  5            a first pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated on sides opposite one another with
                        respect to an axis between the optical package and the lateral magnet, wherein
                                 the lateral magnet is situated one on one side of the optical package at
                                         which no transverse magnets are present; and
               wherein no actuator lateral magnet is situated on a remaining side of the optical package
 to                     at which nether the lateral magnet nor the transverse magnets are situated.
    CLAUSE 16: The actuator of clause 15, further including:
               coils aligned with current circulating in a plane parallel to a plane in which the lateral
                        magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned.
 [5
    CLAUSE 17: The actuator of any of clauses 15-16, further including:
               coils aligned with current circulating in a plane perpendicular to a plane in which the
                        lateral magnet and the transverse magnets have polarities aligned.
 !o
    CLAUSE 18: The actuator of any of clauses 15-17, further including:
                        a second pair of first actuator transverse magnets situated opposite one another
                                 with respect to the axis between the lateral magnet and the optical package.
25  CLAUSE 19: The actuator of clause 18, wherein:
               the magnets of the first pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel to
                        one another.
    CLAUSE 20: The actuator of clause 18, wherein:
30             the magnets of the second pair of transverse magnets have polarity alignments antiparallel
                        to one another.
    CLAUSE 21: A camera system of a multifunction device, including:
                                                            57

    1002085164
               a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
                        field, wherein
                        the first camera unit includes a first optical image stabilization actuator for moving
                                 a first optical package configured for a first focal length; and
 5             a second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second
                        image of a second visual field, wherein
                        the second camera unit includes a second optical image stabilization actuator for
                                 moving a second optical package configured for a second focal length, and
                        the first focal length is different from the second focal length.
 0
    CLAUSE 22: The camera system of clause 21, wherein:
                        the camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera
                                 unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in
                                 creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera
 5                               actuator.
    CLAUSE 23: The camera system of any of clauses 21-22, wherein:
                        the camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera
                                 unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in
 !0                              creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera
                                 actuator;
                        the camera system further includes a first actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                 opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first
                                 camera unit;
25                      the camera system further includes a pair of first actuator transverse magnets
                                 situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                 magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet;
                        the camera system further includes a second actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                 opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the second
30                               camera unit; and
                        the camera system further includes a pair of second actuator transverse magnets
                                 situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                 magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet.
                                                             58

    1002085164
    CLAUSE 24: The camera system of any of clauses 21-23, wherein:
                the camera system includes a shared magnet holder to which are attached one or
                         more magnets of the first camera unit and one or more magnets of the
                         second camera unit used to generate magnetic fields usable in creating
  5                      motion in one or more of the first camera actuator and the second camera
                         actuator.
    CLAUSE 25: The camera system of any of clauses 21-24, wherein:
                the camera system includes one or more stationary magnets secured at fixed
 to                      positions relative to image sensors of the first camera unit and the second
                         camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in one or
                         more of the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator.
    CLAUSE 26: The camera system of any of clauses 21-25, wherein:
 [5             the second camera unit includes a second central magnet array situated along the
                         axis between the first optics package of the first camera unit and the
                         second optics package of the second camera unit;
                the second central magnet array includes an second central upper magnet having a
                         first polarity and a second central lower magnet having a polarity
 !o                      antiparallel to the first polarity;
                the second camera unit includes a second distal magnet array situated opposite the
                         second central magnet array with respect to the second optics package of
                         the second camera unit; and
                the second distal magnet array includes a second distal lower magnet having the
25                       first polarity and a second distal upper magnet having the polarity
                         antiparallel to the first polarity.
    CLAUSE 27: The camera system of clause 26, wherein:
                the first camera unit includes a first central magnet array situated along an axis
30                       between a first optics package of the first camera unit and a second optics
                         package of the second camera unit;
                the first central magnet array includes a first central upper magnet having a first
                         polarity and a first central lower magnet having a polarity antiparallel to
                         the first polarity;
                                                     59

    1002085164
                        the first camera unit includes a first distal magnet array situated opposite the first
                                 central magnet array with respect to the first optics package of the first
                                 camera unit; and
                        the first distal magnet array includes a first distal lower magnet having the first
  5                              polarity and a first distal upper magnet having the polarity antiparallel to
                                 the first polarity.
    CLAUSE 28: The camera system of any of clauses 21-27, further including:
               a magnetic shield between the first optical image stabilization actuator and the second
 to                     optical image stabilization actuator.
    CLAUSE 29: The camera system of any of clauses 21-28, further including:
               a metallic shield between the first optical image stabilization actuator and the second
                        optical image stabilization actuator, wherein
 ts                     the metallic shield includes steel including at least a quantity of iron, a quantity of
                                 manganese, a quantity of Sulphur, a quantity of phosphorus, and a quantity
                                 of carbon.
    CLAUSE 30: A method, including:
 !o            a first camera unit of a multifunction device capturing a first image of a first visual field;
               a second camera unit of the multifunction device simultaneously capturing a second
                        image of a second visual field, wherein
                        the first camera unit includes a first optical package with a first focal length,
                        the second camera unit includes a second optical package with a second focal
25                               length,
                        the first focal length is different from the second focal length, and
                        the first visual field is a subset of the second visual field;
               providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit; and
               providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit.
30
    CLAUSE 31: The method of clause 30, wherein:
               the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical
                        image stabilization to the second camera unit further include moving the first
                        camera unit and the second camera unit independently of one another.
                                                             60

    1002085164
    CLAUSE 32: The method of any of clauses 30-31, wherein:
               the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical
                       image stabilization to the second camera unit further include moving the first
  5                    camera unit and the second camera unit in unison.
    CLAUSE 33: The method of any of clauses 30-32, wherein:
               the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical
                       image stabilization to the second camera unit further include generating a first
  0                    magnetic field in the first camera unit and a second magnetic field in the second
                       camera unit based on a magnet shared between the first camera unit and the
                       second camera unit.
    CLAUSE 34: The method of any of clauses 30-33, wherein:
  5                    the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing
                                optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
                                moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit in unison through
                                operation of a first camera unit actuator and a second camera unit actuator
                                that share a central magnet.
 -0
    CLAUSE 35: The method of any of clauses 30-34, wherein:
                       the providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing
                                optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
                                moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit in unison through
25                              operation of a first camera unit actuator and a second camera unit actuator
                                that share a magnet holder.
    CLAUSE 36: A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing program instructions,
    wherein the program instructions are computer-executable to implement:
30             capturing a first image of a first visual field with a first camera unit of a multifunction
                       device;
               simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual field with a second camera
                       unit of the multifunction device, wherein
                       the first camera unit includes a first optical package with a first focal length,
                                                           61

   1002085164
                     the second camera unit includes a second optical package with a second focal
                              length,
                     the first focal length is different from the second focal length, and
                     the first visual field is a subset of the second visual field;
 5            providing optical image stabilization to the first camera unit; and
              providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit.
 0 CLAUSE 37: The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of clause 36, wherein:
              the program instructions computer-executable to implement providing optical image
                     stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical image stabilization
                     to the second camera unit further include program instructions computer
                     executable to implement moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit
 5                   independently of one another.
   CLAUSE 38: The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of any of clauses 36-37,
   wherein:
              the program instructions computer-executable to implement providing optical image
 !                   stabilization to the first camera unit and the providing optical image stabilization
                     to the second camera unit further include program instructions computer
                     executable to implement moving the first camera unit and the second camera unit
                     in unison.
25 CLAUSE 39: The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of any of clauses 36-38,
   wherein
              the program instructions computer-executable to implement providing optical image
                     stabilization to the first camera unit and the program instructions computer
                     executable to implement providing optical image stabilization to the second
30                   camera unit further include program instructions computer-executable to
                     implement generating a first magnetic field in the first camera unit and a second
                     magnetic field in the second camera unit based on a magnet shared between the
                     first camera unit and the second camera unit.
                                                          62

   1002085164
   CLAUSE 40: The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of any of clauses 36-39,
   wherein:
              the program instructions computer-executable to implement providing optical image
              stabilization to the first camera unit and the program instructions computer-executable to
 5            implement providing optical image stabilization to the second camera unit further include
              program instructions computer-executable to implement moving the first camera unit and
              the second camera unit in unison through operation of a first camera unit actuator and a
              second camera unit actuator that share a magnet holder.
   CLAUSE 41: A camera system of a multifunction device, including:
 0
              a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
                       field, wherein
                       the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package;
                                and
 5            a second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second
                       image of a second visual field, wherein
                       the second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical
                                package,
                       the second camera unit includes a second central magnet array situated along the
 0                              axis between the first optics package of the first camera unit and the
                                second optics package of the second camera unit,
                       the second central magnet array includes a second central upper magnet having a
                                first polarity and a second central lower magnet having a polarity
                                antiparallel to the first polarity,
25                     the second camera unit includes a second distal magnet array situated opposite the
                                second central magnet array with respect to the second optics package of
                                the second camera unit, and
                       the second distal magnet array includes a second distal lower magnet having the
                                first polarity and a second distal upper magnet having the polarity
30                              antiparallel to the first polarity.
   CLAUSE 42: The camera system of clause 41, wherein:
                                                            63

    1002085164
                the first camera unit includes a first central magnet array situated along an axis
                         between a first optics package of the first camera unit and a second optics
                         package of the second camera unit;
                the first central magnet array includes a first central upper magnet having a first
 5                       polarity and a first central lower magnet having a polarity antiparallel to
                         the first polarity;
                the first camera unit includes a first distal magnet array situated opposite the first
                         central magnet array with respect to the first optics package of the first
                         camera unit; and
 0              the first distal magnet array includes a first distal lower magnet having the first
                         polarity and a first distal upper magnet having the polarity antiparallel to
                         the first polarity.
    CLAUSE 43: The camera system of any if clauses 41-42, further including:
 5              an autofocus coil unit of the second actuator, wherein the autofocus coil unit is
                         situated between the second optical package and the second central magnet
                         array.
    CLAUSE 44: The camera system of clause 43, further including:
 !o             an autofocus coil unit of the second actuator, wherein the autofocus coil unit is
                         situated between the second optical package and the second central magnet
                         array; and
                an exterior coil unit of the second actuator, wherein the exterior coil unit includes
                         one or more SP coils situated between the second central magnet array and
25                       the first camera unit.
    CLAUSE 45: The camera system of clause 44,
                wherein
                         the exterior coil unit includes
30                                an upper exterior coil segment radially surrounding the second
                                          optical package and having a current circulating in a first
                                          direction around the second optical package, and
                                                     64

    1002085164
                                a lower exterior coil segment radially surrounding the second
                                        optical package and having a current circulating in a second
                                        direction around the second optical package; and
                        the second direction is opposite the first direction.
  5
    CLAUSE 46: The camera system of clause 44,
                wherein
                        the exterior coil unit includes
                                an upper exterior coil segment situated at a side of the second
  0                                     optical package and having a current circulating along a
                                        side of the second optical package, and
                                a lower exterior coil segment situated at the side of the second
                                        optical package and having a current circulating along the
                                        side of the second optical package.
 [5
    CLAUSE 47: The camera system of clause 43,
                wherein
                        the autofocus coil unit includes
                                an upper autofocus coil segment radially surrounding the second
 !o                                     optical package and having a current circulating in a first
                                        direction around the second optical package, and
                                a lower autofocus coil segment radially surrounding the second
                                        optical package and having a current circulating in a second
                                        direction around the second optical package; and
25                      the second direction is opposite the first direction.
    CLAUSE 48: A camera unit of a multifunction device, including:
                an optical package; and
                an actuator, wherein the actuator includes
30                      one or more magnet arrays including a plurality of magnets arranged at
                                multiple sides of the optical package,
                        one or more autofocus coils arranged between respective ones of the
                                magnet arrays and the optical package, and
                                                   65

    1002085164
                              one or more exterior coils arranged opposite the autofocus coils with
                                      respect to the magnet arrays.
    CLAUSE 49: The camera unit of clause 48, wherein:
  5                   the one or more autofocus coils radially surround the optical package.
    CLAUSE 50: The camera unit of any of clauses 48-49, wherein:
                      each of the one or more magnet arrays includes an upper magnet having a
                              magnetic field aligned in a first direction inward toward the optical
 to                           package; and
                      each of the one or more magnet arrays further includes a lower magnet having a
                              magnetic field aligned in a second direction outward from the optical
                              package.
 [5 CLAUSE 51: The camera unit of any of clauses 48-50, wherein:
                      each of the one or more magnet arrays includes an upper magnet having a
                              magnetic field aligned in a first direction; and
                      each of the one or more magnet arrays further includes a lower magnet having a
                              magnetic field aligned in a second direction antiparallel to the first
 !o                           direction.
    CLAUSE 52: The camera unit of any of clauses 48-51, wherein:
               the one or more autofocus coils include
                      an upper autofocus coil segment radially surrounding the second optical package
25                            and having a current circulating in a first direction around the second
                              optical package, and
                      a lower autofocus coil segment radially surrounding the second optical package
                              and having a current circulating in a second direction around the second
                              optical package; and
30                    the second direction is opposite the first direction.
    CLAUSE 53: The camera unit of any of clauses 48-52, wherein
               the one or more exterior coils include
                                                        66

    1002085164
                        an upper exterior coil segment radially surrounding the second optical package
                                 and having a current circulating in a first direction around the second
                                 optical package, and
                        a lower exterior coil segment radially surrounding the second optical package and
  5                              having a current circulating in a second direction around the second optical
                                 package; and
                        the second direction is opposite the first direction.
    CLAUSE 54: The camera unit of any of clauses 48-53,
  0            the one or more exterior coils include
                        an upper exterior coil segment situated at a side of the second optical package and
                                 having a current circulating along a side of the second optical package, and
                        a lower exterior coil segment situated at the side of the second optical package and
                                 having a current circulating along the side of the second optical package in
 ts                              a same direction as the upper exterior coil segment.
    CLAUSE 55: A camera system, including:
               a first camera unit for capturing a first image of a first visual field, wherein
 !o                     the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package
                                 within a first range of focal lengths; and
               a second camera unit for simultaneously capturing a second image of a second visual
                        field, wherein
                        the second visual field is a subset of the first visual field,
25                      the second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical
                                 package,
                        the second camera unit includes a second central magnet array situated along the
                                 axis between the first optics package of the first camera unit and the
                                 second optics package of the second camera unit,
30                      the second central magnet array includes a second central upper magnet having a
                                 first polarity and a second central lower magnet having a polarity
                                 antiparallel to the first polarity.
    CLAUSE 56: The camera system of clause 55, wherein:
                                                             67

    1002085164
                the second camera unit includes a second distal magnet array situated opposite the
                         second central magnet array with respect to the second optics package of
                         the second camera unit, and
                the second distal magnet array includes a second distal lower magnet having the
  5                      first polarity and a second distal upper magnet having the polarity
                         antiparallel to the first polarity.
    CLAUSE 57: The camera system of any of clauses 55-56, wherein:
                the first camera unit includes a first central magnet array situated along an axis
 to                      between a first optics package of the first camera unit and a second optics
                         package of the second camera unit;
                the first central magnet array includes a first central upper magnet having a first
                         polarity and a first central lower magnet having a polarity antiparallel to
                         the first polarity.
 [5
    CLAUSE 58: The camera system of clause 57, wherein:
                the first camera unit includes a first distal magnet array situated opposite the first
 !o                      central magnet array with respect to the first optics package of the first
                         camera unit; and
                the first distal magnet array includes a first distal lower magnet having the first
                         polarity and a first distal upper magnet having the polarity antiparallel to
                         the first polarity.
25  CLAUSE 59: The camera system of any of clauses 55-58, further including:
                an autofocus coil unit of the second actuator, wherein the autofocus coil unit is
                         situated between the second optical package and the second central magnet
                         array.
30  CLAUSE 60: The camera system of any of clauses 55-59, further including:
                an exterior coil unit of the second actuator, wherein the exterior coil unit includes
                         one or more SP coils situated between the second central magnet array and
                         the first camera unit.
                                                     68

    1002085164
    CLAUSE 61: A camera system of a multifunction device, including:
               a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
                        field, wherein
                        the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package
  5                              configured for a first focal length; and
               a second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second
                        image of a second visual field, wherein
                        the second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical
                                 package configured for a second focal length, and
  0                     the camera system includes a shared magnet positioned between the first camera
                                 unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in
                                 creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera
                                 actuator.
 [5 CLAUSE 62: The camera system of clause 61, wherein:
                        the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the first actuator and the
                                 second actuator, to which are attached one or more magnets of the first
                                 camera unit and one or more magnets of the second camera unit to
                                 generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in the first camera
 !o                              actuator and the second camera actuator.
    CLAUSE 63: The camera system of any of clauses 61-62, wherein:
                        the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the first actuator and the
                                 second actuator, from which the first camera actuator and the second
25                               camera actuator are suspended using respective sets of control wires
                                 mounted with a pair of control wires in each comer of each respective
                                 actuator.
    CLAUSE 64: The camera system of any of clauses 61-63, wherein:
30             the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the first actuator and the second
                        actuator, from which the first camera actuator and the second camera actuator are
                        attached using respective sets of control wires.
    CLAUSE 65: The camera system of any of clauses 61-64, wherein:
                                                            69

   1002085164
                       the camera system further includes a first actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first
                                camera unit;
                       the camera system further includes a pair of first actuator transverse magnets
 5                              situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet;
                       the camera system further includes a second actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the second
                                camera unit; and
 o                     the camera system further includes a pair of second actuator transverse magnets
                                situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet.
   CLAUSE 66: The camera system of any of clauses 61-65, wherein:
 5                     the camera system includes a shared magnet holder to which are attached one or
                                more side-mounted magnets of the first camera unit and one or more side
                                mounted magnets of the second camera unit used to generate magnetic
                                fields usable in creating motion in one or more of the first camera actuator
                                and the second camera actuator.
-o
   CLAUSE 67: The camera system of any of clauses 61-66, wherein:
                       the camera system includes a shared magnet holder to which are moveably
                                articulated one or more coils of the first camera unit and one or more
                                comer-mounted magnets of the second camera unit used to usable in
25                              creating motion in one or more of the first camera actuator and the second
                                camera actuator.
   CLAUSE 68: A camera system of a multifunction device, including:
              a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
30                     field, wherein
                       the first camera unit includes a first actuator for moving a first optical package
                                configured for a first focal length; and
              a second camera unit of the multifunction device for simultaneously capturing a second
                       image of a second visual field, wherein
                                                           70

    1002085164
               the second camera unit includes a second actuator for moving a second optical
                        package configured for a second focal length, and
               the camera system includes a shared magnet holder for the first actuator and the
                        second actuator.
  5
    CLAUSE 69: The camera system of clause 68, wherein:
               the camera system includes one or more comer magnets of the first camera unit
                        and one or more comer magnets of the second camera unit to generate
                        magnetic fields usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator
 to                     and the second camera actuator, and
               the corner magnets are attached to the shared magnet holder.
    CLAUSE 70: The camera system of any of clauses 68-69, wherein:
               the camera system includes one or more side magnets of the first camera unit and
 [5                     one or more side magnets of the second camera unit to generate magnetic
                        fields usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the
                        second camera actuator, and
               the magnets are attached to the shared magnet holder.
 !o CLAUSE 71: The camera system of any of clauses 68-70, wherein:
               the camera system includes one or more magnets of the first camera unit and one
                        or more magnets of the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields
                        usable in creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second
                        camera actuator,
25             the magnets are attached to the shared magnet holder, and
               the magnets include a magnet shared between the first camera unit and the second
                        camera unit.
    CLAUSE 72: The camera system of any of clauses 68-71, wherein:
30             the first camera actuator and the second actuator are attached to the shared magnet
                        holder using respective sets of control wires mounted with a pair of control
                        wires in each corner of each respective actuator.
    CLAUSE 73: The camera system of any of clauses 68-72, wherein:
                                                  71

    1002085164
               the first camera actuator and the second actuator are suspended from the shared magnet
                        holder using respective sets of control wires mounted in each comer of each
                        respective actuator.
  5 CLAUSE 74: The camera system of any of clauses 68-73, wherein:
                        the camera system further includes a first actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first
                                camera unit;
                        the camera system further includes a pair of first actuator transverse magnets
 to                             situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet;
                        the camera system further includes a second actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the second
                                camera unit; and
 ts                     the camera system further includes a pair of second actuator transverse magnets
                                situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet.
    CLAUSE 75: A camera unit of a multifunction device, including:
 !o                     an optical package; and
                        an actuator, wherein the actuator includes
                                one or more magnets arranged at multiple sides of the optical package,
                                        wherein one of the one or more magnets is shared with a second
                                        actuator for moving a second optical package,
25                              one or more autofocus coils arranged between respective ones of the
                                        magnets and the optical package.
    CLAUSE 76: The camera unit of clause 75, wherein:
                        the one or more autofocus coils radially surround the optical package.
30
    CLAUSE 77: The camera unit of any of clauses 75-76, wherein:
          the actuator is attached to a magnet holder of the camera using respective sets of control wires
                        mounted with a pair of control wires in each comer of each respective actuator.
                                                          72

   1002085164
   CLAUSE 78: The camera unit of any of clauses 75-77, wherein:
              the actuator is articulated to a magnet holder of the camera using respective sets of
                     control wires mounted with a pair of control wires in each comer of the actuator,
                     wherein the magnet holder is shared with one or more magnets of the second
 5                   actuator.
   CLAUSE 79: The camera unit of any of clauses 75-78, wherein:
              the actuator is attached to a magnet holder of the camera using a control wire mounted
                     control wires in each corner of the actuator.
 0
   CLAUSE 80: The camera unit of any of clauses 75-79, wherein:
              the actuator is suspended from a magnet holder of the camera using a control wire
                     mounted control wires in each comer of the actuator.
 5 [00257]        Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of
   claims that follow. Finally, structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the
   example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and
   other variations, modifications, additions, and improvements may fall within the scope of
   embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.
!0
                                                       73

    1002085164
    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1. A camera system of a multifunction device, comprising:
               a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
  5                     field, wherein
                        the first camera unit comprises a first actuator for moving a first optical package
                                 configured for a first focal length; and
               a second camera unit of the multifunction device for capturing a second image of a second
                        visual field, wherein
  0                     the second camera unit comprises a second actuator for moving a second optical
                                 package configured for a second focal length, and
                        the camera system comprises a shared magnet positioned between the first camera
                                 unit and the second camera unit to generate magnetic fields usable in
                                 creating motion in both the first camera actuator and the second camera
 ts                              actuator.
          2. The camera system of claim 1, wherein:
                        the camera system comprises a shared magnet holder for the first actuator and the
                                 second actuator, to which are attached one or more magnets of the first
 !o                              camera unit and one or more magnets of the second camera unit to
                                 generate magnetic fields usable in creating motion in the first camera
                                 actuator and the second camera actuator.
          3.    The camera system of claim 1, wherein:
25                      the camera system further comprises a first actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                 opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the first
                                 camera unit;
                        the camera system further comprises a pair of first actuator transverse magnets
                                 situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
30                               magnet and the first actuator lateral magnet;
                        the camera system further comprises a second actuator lateral magnet positioned
                                 opposite the shared magnet with respect to an optical axis of the second
                                 camera unit; and
                                                            74

    1002085164
                        the camera system further comprises a pair of second actuator transverse magnets
                                 situated opposite one another with respect to an axis between the shared
                                 magnet and the second actuator lateral magnet.
  5       4. A camera system of a multifunction device, comprising:
               a first camera unit of a multifunction device for capturing a first image of a first visual
                        field, wherein
                        the first camera unit comprises a first actuator for moving a first optical package
                                 configured for a first focal length; and
 to            a second camera unit of the multifunction device for capturing a second image of a second
                        visual field, wherein
                        the second camera unit comprises a second actuator for moving a second optical
                                 package configured for a second focal length, and
                        the camera system comprises a shared magnet holder for the first actuator and the
 [5                              second actuator.
          5. A camera unit of a multifunction device, comprising:
                        an optical package; and
                        an actuator, wherein the actuator comprises
 !o                              one or more magnets arranged at multiple sides of the optical package,
                                 wherein one of the one or more magnets is shared with a second actuator
                                 for moving a second optical package,
                                 one or more autofocus coils arranged between respective ones of the
                                 magnets and the optical package.
25
                                                            75

<removed-date>
                                                                  1 / 29
                         Memory 102
              Operating System                           126              Portable Multifunction Device 100
              Communication Module                       128             Applications (continued)                136
              Contact/Motion Module                      130                 Calendar Module                     148
              Graphics Module                            132                 Widget Modules                      149
              Test Input Module                          134                    Weather Widget(s)                149-1
<removed-apn>
              GPS Module                                 135                       Stocks Widget                 149-2
              Arbiter Module                             158                       Calculator Widget             149-3
              Applications                               136                       Alarm Clock Widget            149-4
                 Contacts Module                         137                       Dictionary Widget             149-5
                 Telephone Module
                                                                                   ..
                                                         138                        .
                 Video Conference Module                 139                       User-Created Widget(s)        149-6
                 Email Client Module                     140                 Widget Creator Module               150
                 Instant Messaging Module                141                 Search Module                       151
                 Workout Support Module                  142                 Online Video Module                 155
                 Dual-Camera Module
                                                                             ..
                                                         143                  .
                 Image Management Module                 144             Device/Global Internal State            157
                 Video & Music Player Module             152
                 Notes Module                            153                     Power System
                                                                                     162
                 Map Module                              154
                 Browser Module                          147                     External Port
                                                                                     124
                                    103                    103
                                                                                  103
                                                                                              RF Circuitry
                                      Controller                                                 108             Speaker
                                        122                                                                          111
                                                                                             Audio Circuitry
                                                   103         Peripherals                        110                 113
                     104                                        Interface
                                                                   118                     Proximity Sensor      Microphone
                                                                                                 166
                                     Processor(s)
                                         120                                             Orientation Sensor(s)
                                                                                                  168
                                                           103
                                                         I/O Subsystem 106
                                     Display             Optical Sensor(s)              Other Input
                                    Controller              Controller                  Controller(s)
                                      156                       158                        116
                                  Touch-Sensitive              Optical                Other Input
                                  Display System         Sensor(s) / Camera(s)      Control Devices
                                        112                      164                     116
                                                            FIG. 1

<removed-date>
                                               2 / 29
                                                                       Portable
                                                                      Multifunction
                                                                        Device
                                                                         100
                                 Optical Sensor Optical Sensor
                                 /Camera Unit /Camera Unit
                    206               164b           164a               210       212
<removed-apn>
                    Speaker                                           Proximity Sensor
              208     111                                                   166
                                                                                            200
              208
                                       210 is SIM card slot
                                       212 is headphone jack
                                                                                      202
                                                Touch
                                                Screen
                                                 112
                                                                202
                              Microphone        Home           Accelerometer(s)
                                  113            204                 168
                                             External Port
                                                 124
                                              FIG. 2

<removed-date>
                                3 / 29
                                 3088
<removed-apn>                       3086
                                                     3090
              3092
                                                             Portable
                                                            Multifunction
                                                              Device
                                                               3080
                       2nd Optical     1st Optical
                         Sensor         Sensor
                     /Camera Unit    /Camera Unit
                     (see FIG. 3B)   (see FIG. 3C)
                          3084            3082
                              FIG. 3A

<removed-date>
               4 / 29
                                500
<removed-apn>
                          502
                    506
                          504
              FIG. 3B

<removed-date>
                                               5 / 29
                                                         Image Sensor
                       3000                              Z (Optical) Axis
                                                              3052
<removed-apn>
              3012                                                                      3012
                               3030A                                 3030B
                        3010                                                   3010
                                             Optics
                     Magnet       Optics     Module                  Optics    Magnet
               XY                 Holder                             Holder               XY
              Axes   Holder                (e.g., Lens                         Holder    Axes
                      3006        3003       Barrel)                 3003       3006
                                              3002
               3020A                                                                  3020B
                               3032A                                   3032B
                        3010                                                   3010
                 Base                                                                 Base
                 3008                                                                 3008
                                           Image Sensor 3070
                                            FIG. 3C

<removed-date>
                                                         6 / 29
                               Camera
                                Unit                                                      Camera
                                400a                                                       Unit
                                                                                           400c
                        404a                      404a
                        414a        402a          410a
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      402c
              426a                  408a                     426a   426c
                                                                    424c                                   404c
              424a                  428a
                                                             424a
                                                                           418c                     406c
                 416a
                        418a                      406a 412a                                  420c
                                 FIG. 4A                                          FIG. 4C
                         Camera
                          Unit
                          400b
                          108b             422b
                                    426b
                                                                           Carrier + Lens (Moves in X,Y,Z)
                                                                           AF Coil (Moves in X,Y,Z)
                                                                           Magnetic (Moves in X,Y)
                                                                           SP Coil (Stationary)
                                    402b
                                                                                  FIG. 4D
                         418b                     406b
                                   420b
                                 FIG. 4B

<removed-date>
                                                              7 / 29
                                 400e
                                                                                           400g
                        404e                           404e
                        414e             402e          410e
<removed-apn>
                                                                                    402g
              424e
                                         408e                     424e
              426e
                                                                  426e
                                         428e
              424e                                              424e
                 416e                                       412e
                        418e                           406e                     424g 426g
                                  FIG. 4E                                      FIG. 4G
                               400f
                                                       424f
                                                       422f              Carrier + Lens (Moves in X,Y,Z)
                        408f                                             AF Coil (Moves in X,Y,Z)
                                                                         Magnetic (Moves in X,Y)
                424f                                                     SP Coil (Stationary)
                                         402f                   424f
                                                                               FIG. 4H
                          418f                         406f
                                      424f      420f
                                  FIG. 4F

<removed-date>
                                                                   8 / 29
                                     400i
                                                                                                  400k
                             404i                           404i
                            414i              402i          410i
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           402k
              426i                            408i                     426i   426k                         430k
              424i                            428i                     424i   426k                         430k
                     416i                                           412i
                             418i                           406i
                                           FIG. 4I                                    FIG. 4G
                                    400j
                                                            426j
                                                            422j                Carrier + Lens (Moves in X,Y,Z)
                            408j                                                AF Coil (Moves in X,Y,Z)
                                                                                Magnetic (Moves in X,Y)
                 426j                                                           SP Coil (Stationary)
                                              402j                    426j
                                                                                      FIG. 4L
                              418j                          406j
                                           426j      420j
                                       FIG. 4F

<removed-date>
                                                 9 / 29
                            500
                                   502a                          502b
<removed-apn>
                            510a          512a      508   510b           512b
              506a                                                                   506b
                                   504a                          504b
              506a                                                                   506b
                     516a   506a   520a   506a      516b 506b     520b   506b 514b
                                             514a
                                             FIG. 5

<removed-date>
                                               10 / 29
                     600a
<removed-apn>
                               602a                              618a
                               630a                             640a
                                                                                    608a
                                 610a                             613a
                                                         646a
                       611a                              648a
                                        638a
              632a                                                           614a          642a
                        636a                             620a
                               612a                             615a
                                634a                             644a
                                                                       Magnets
                                                                       Magnet Holder
                                                                       AF and SP Coils
                                                                       Can
                                                                       Rectangular Lens
                                                                       SP Wire
                                          FIG. 6A

<removed-date>
                                          11 / 29
                                 602b                  618b
                                630b                 640b
              600b
                                                                        654b
<removed-apn>
               632b                                                     642b
                                  604b                606b
                                                                        608b
                        638b     634b    636b 646b    644b    648b
                                         FIG. 6B
                                 602c                  618c
              600c
                      604c                   608c               606c
                                                                        654c
               A                                                           A
                      650c                 651c                  652c
                                         FIG. 6C
                                 602d                  618d
                                630d                 640d
              600d
                                                                        654d
               632d
                                                                        642d
                                  604d                606d
                                                                        608d
                         638d    634d    636d 646d    644d    648d
                                         FIG. 6D

<removed-date>
                         12 / 29
                600e
                         602e
                                   632e
<removed-apn>
              650e
                                    654e
               636e
                                      604e
               638e
              652e                 608e
                                   634e
                       FIG. 6E

<removed-date>
                                             13 / 29
                              702a                       718a
                             730a     710a             740a    713a
              700a
                                                                            754a
<removed-apn>
               732a                                                         742a
                               704a                     706a
               711a                                                         714a
                                                                            708a
                      736a    734a 712a 720a 746a      744a 715a 748a
                                         FIG. 7A
                              702b                       718b
                             730b     710b             740b    713b
              700b
                                                                            754b
               732b                                                         742b
                               704b                     706b
               711b                                                         714b
                                                                            708b
                      736b    734b 712b 720b 746b      744b 715b 748b
                                                         Magnets
                                                         Magnet Holder
                                                         AF and SP Coils
                                                         Can
                                                         Rectangular Lens
                                                         SP Wire
                                         FIG. 7B

<removed-date>
                                    14 / 29
                700c
                                       702c
<removed-apn>
                     730c   711c
              754c
                                                                      710c
                                                      734c
                                                     AF Coil 732c
                                              704c          SP Coil
              750c                                           (Side)
                      736c 712c
                     SP Coil
                      (Flat)
                                   FIG. 7C

<removed-date>
                                      15 / 29
                        802a
                                             810a
                         870a                            858a
<removed-apn>
                 872a                                           860a
                                                                  812a
              816a                         804a
                                                  828a
                 866a                                           862a
                                                                826a
                         868a                            864a
                                          814a
                                    FIG. 8A
              AF Coil (Moves in x, y, z)
              Larier (Moves in x, y, z)
              SP Coil Base (Attached to SP Coil Holder, Moves in x and y)
              SP Coil Race Track(Moves in x and y)
              Magnets (Staionary)
              SP Coil Holder (Moves in x and y)
                                    FIG. 8E

<removed-date>
                                     16 / 29
                              802b
                         872b            804b           858b
                      832b    828b                        838b
<removed-apn>
              816b                                                812b
               826b                                              826b
                              832b        840b      830b
                                  FIG. 8B
                       802c
                                  834c    810c
              816c
                                                             812c
                                      828c
              832c
                                                                 838c
                                  814c       836c
                                 FIG. 8C
                                                    890d
                          864d                   862d
                                                    888d
                                  FIG. 8D

<removed-date>
                                                               17 / 29
                                           902a                                 918a
              900a                           910a                                  914a
                            952a                           954a         960a                   962a
                     908a                                        913a
                                    980a
<removed-apn>
                 911a
                                           904a                                 909a                     917a
                                                                                        982a
                                                                                                      907a
                                                                  915a
                            950a                           956a         958a                   964a
                                            912a                                 916a
                                                           FIG. 9A
                                           902b                                 918b
                                            904b                                 909b
              900b      970b 980b                  934b 972b                                     978b
                                                                   976b 936b
                                                                                                       982b
                  911b                                                                                 917b
                   950b                                                                               964b
                   908b                                                                               907b
                 990b                                                                                 992b
                               932b                     956b                              938b
                                                               913b 915b 958b
                                                           FIG. 9B
              900c                 971c          910c     913c     915c 975b       914c
                                                                                                      992c
               970c                                                                                     978c
                                                                                                      917c
                911c                      904c                                  909c
               980c                                                                                      980c
                990c
                                   973c          912c     972b      976c 977c      916c
                                           902c                                 918c
                                                           FIG. 9C

<removed-date>
                                      18 / 29
              AF Coil (Moves in x, y, z)
<removed-apn>
              Larier (Moves in x, y, z)
              SP Coil Base (Attached to SP Coil Holder, Moves in x and y)
              SP Coil Race Track (Moves in x and y)
              Magnets (Staionary)
              SP Coil Holder (Moves in x and y)
                                    FIG. 9D

<removed-date>
                                                           19 / 29
                                      1002a                                    1018a
              1000a                         910a                                   1014a
                          1052a                       1054a        1060a                        1062a
                  1008a
                                  1080a
<removed-apn>
                1011a
                                          1004a                                 1009a                     1017a
                                                                                        1082a
                                                                                                        1007a
                                                            1015a
                          1050a                        1056a 1058a                          1064a
                                          1012a                                  1016a
                                                      FIG. 10A
                                      1002b                                    1018b
                                          1004b                                 1009b
              1000b     1070b 1080b            1034b1072b                                        1078b
                                                          1076b 1036b
                                                                                                          1082b
                 1011b                                                                                   1017b
                  1050b                                                                                 1064b
                  1008b                                                                                 1007b
                1090b                                                                                   1092b
                              1032b                1056b    1015b      1058b              1038b
                                                      FIG. 10B
              1000c           1071c       1010c            1015c      1075b       1014c
                                                                                                        1092c
                1070c                                                                                    1078c
                                                                                                        1017c
                1011c                                                          1080c
               1080c                                                                                      1080c
                1090c
                               1073c 1012c            1072b 1076c 1077c          1016c
                                      1002c                                    1018c
                                                      FIG. 10C

<removed-date>
                                       20 / 29
              AF Coil (Moves in x, y, z)
<removed-apn>
              Larier (Moves x, y, z)
              SP Coil Base (Attached to SP Coil Holder, Moves in x and y)
              SP Coil Race Track (Moves in x and y)
              Magnets (Staionary)
              SP Coil Holder (Moves in x and y)
                                  FIG. 10D

<removed-date>
                                                      21 / 29
                      1100a
                                  1102a                                          1104a
                  1130a
<removed-apn>
                          11xa              1132a                    1134a                  1136a
                                                             1124a
                                                     1122a                                          1126a
              1120a                                          1114a
                                                    1112a
                          1140a 1106a 1142a                                1144a 1108a 1146a
                      1110a                         1111a
                                Module 1                     d          1110a    Module 2   1116a
                                                    FIG. 11A
                      1130b         1128b
                                                                               Carrier
                                   t                                           Magnet Holder
                                                                               Magnet
                                                    1106b
                                                                               Base
                                                                               Metal Shielding
                                                    1140b
                       1120b     1110b
                                                                             FIG. 11C
                              FIG. 11B

<removed-date>
                                                    22 / 29
                      1200a
                                               1230a                                              1204a
                                               1228a
<removed-apn>
                                         1206a
                                              1244a
                                         1210a                                                            1240a
                                           1246a                   1232a
                                                                   1226a                                1242a
                              1202a                        1208a
                                                           1212a
              1250a                                           1248a
                                                                                       Magnet Orientation 1
                                                                                       Magnet Orientation 2
                                                  FIG. 12A
                      1200b
                                                                                   1254b
                                                          1228b
                                                  1210b
                                          1252b
                                 1258b                                     1256b
                         1202b                                                                  1204b
                                          1254b
                                                          1226b
                                                  1212b
                                                                                   1252b
                                                                                       Magnet Orientation 1
                                                                                       Magnet Orientation 2
                                                  FIG. 12B

<removed-date>
                          23 / 29
                  1200c
                                    1254c
                                     1228c
<removed-apn>
              1252c
               1230c
                                             Magnet Orientation 1
                                             Magnet Orientation 2
                           1204c
               1254c
              1232c
                                     1226c
                                    1252c
                       FIG. 12C

<removed-date>
                                                        24 / 29
                                                                                        Magnet Orientation 1
                  1200e                                                                 Magnet Orientation 2
                                                                                                             1244f
<removed-apn>
                       1206e      1246e                           1230e   1244e
                                                                                                         1228f
                                                                                              1230f
                                                                                              1284f
                                                                                                      1240f
                               1282e              Y                  1284e
                      1250e                                             1240e
                                                                                                1204e
                                                              X
                      1202e                                               1204e
                          1286e                                      1288e
                                                                                              1286f
                                                                                              1232e
                                                                                                         1226e
                      1208e     1248e                             1232e   1242e                             1242f
                                            FIG. 12E                                          FIG. 12F
                          1208d                                      1232d
              1202d                                                                  1204d
                                          1286d       1288d
              1250d   1212d    1248d                              1248d      1226d    1240d
                                           FIG. 12D

<removed-date>
                                             25 / 29
                        1200a
                                       1230a
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      1204a
                                       1228a
                                     1244a                       1240a
              1206a
                                    1246a
              1210a                                      1232a
                                                         1226a
                            1202a                 1208a
                                                      1242a
                                                  1212a
                1250a                                  1248a
                                                                         Magnet Orientation 1
                                                                         Magnet Orientation 2
                                       FIG. 12G

<removed-date>
                                                  26 / 29
                      1300a
                                             1230a
                                                                                           1304a
                                             1228a
<removed-apn>
              1306a
              1310a                                            1332a
                                                               1326a
                          1302a                        1308a
                                                       1313a
                                                                              Magnet Orientation 1
                                                                              Magnet Orientation 2
                                                 FIG. 13A
                      1300b
                                         1352b                                  1352b
                                         1306b                   1330b
                        1302b                                                     1304a
                           OIS with AF                                   OIS with AF
                           Module #1                                     Module #2
                         1308b                                  1332b
                                         1354b                                  1354b
                                                                              Magnet Orientation 1
                                                                              Magnet Orientation 2
                                                 FIG. 13B

<removed-date>
                                     27 / 29
                Capture with a first camera unit of a multifunction
                device, having a first optical package with a first
                 focal length, a first image of a first visual field
                                        1400
<removed-apn>
                Simultaneously capture with a second camera unit
               of the multifunction device, having a second optical
              package with a second focal length different from the
               first focal length a second image of a second visual
                      field that is a subset of the first visual field
                                          1402
               Preserve to a storage medium the first image and
                the second image as separate data structures
                                     1404
               Display the first image in a screen interface with a
              control for switching to display of the second image
                                       1406
               Responsive to an actuation of the control, display
                 the second image in place of the first image
                                    1408
                                  FIG. 14A

<removed-date>
                                     28 / 29
                Capture with a first camera unit of a multifunction
                device, having a first optical package with a first
                 focal length, a first image of a first visual field
                                        1410
<removed-apn>
                Simultaneously capture with a second camera unit
               of the multifunction device, having a second optical
              package with a second focal length different from the
               first focal length a second image of a second visual
                      field that is a subset of the first visual field
                                          1412
                       Provide optical image stabilization
                             to the first camera unit
                                       1414
                       Provide optical image stabilization
                          to the second camera unit
                                     1416
                                  FIG. 14B

<removed-date>
                                        29 / 29
                                     Computer System
                                         1400
<removed-apn>
                  Processor          Processor                       Processor
                    1510a              1510b           ...             1510n
                                       I/O Interface
                                           1530
                     Memory              Network
                      1520                                   Input/Output Device(s)
                                         Interface
                                                                     1550
                                           1540
              Program Instructions
                     1522
                Camera Control
              Program Instructions
                     1515
                                                       Cursor
                                                       Control     Keyboard      Display(s)
                                                       Device        1570          1580
                                                        1560
                                         Network
                                          1585
                                       FIG. 15

