ll:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16696578_1.docx-22
                                   05/2018
                                                    ABSTRACT
The current disclosure provides specific peptides, and derived ionization characteristics of the
peptides from the estrogen receptor (ER) proteins that are particularly advantageous for
quantifying the ER proteins directly in biological samples that have been fixed in formalin by
the method of Selected Reaction Monitoring / Multiple Reaction Monitoring (SRM/MRM)
mass spectrometry. These peptides can be quantitated if they reside in a modified or in an
unmodified form. An example of a modified form of an ER peptide is phosphorylation of a
tyrosine, threonine, serine, and/or other amino acid residues within the peptide sequence.

                         Multiplex MRM Assay for Evaluation of Cancer
       This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012311983, the entire
   content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
       This application claims priority to United States Application Serial No. 61/537,918, filed
 5 September 22, 2011, entitled "Multiplex MRM Assay for Evaluation of Cancer," the contents of
   which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
   Introduction
       Specific peptides derived from subsequences of the estrogen receptor (ER), the progesterone
   receptor (PR), and the antigen Ki67 (Ki67) proteins are provided. The peptide sequences and
 0 fragmentation/transition ions for each peptide are particularly useful in a mass spectrometry
   based Selected Reaction Monitoring (SRM), which also can be referred to as a Multiple Reaction
   Monitoring (MRM) assay. Such assays are alternatively referred to herein as SRM/MRM.
   Information about the use (individually, simultaneously, or in various combinations) of peptides
   for SRM/MRM quantitative analysis of these proteins is described.
 5     Results from the SRM/MRM assays can be used to measure relative or absolute quantitative
   levels of one or more of the specific peptides from (ER), the progesterone receptor (PR), and the
   antigen Ki67 (Ki67) proteins. Where the proteins are analyzed individually, simultaneously, or in
   various combinations the assays can be used to correlate accurate and precise quantitative levels
   of the proteins within specific breast tissue samples (e.g., cancer tissue sample), or any other
 0 tissue of origin other than breast, of the patient or subject from whom the tissue (biological
   sample) was collected and preserved. This not only provides diagnostic information about the
   breast cancer, but also permits a physician or other medical professional to determine appropriate
   therapy for the breast cancer patient. Such an assay that provides diagnostically and
   therapeutically important information about levels of protein expression in a diseased tissue or
25 other patient sample is termed a "companion diagnostic" assay. For example, such an assay can
   be designed to diagnose the stage or degree of a breast cancer, or any other cancer, and determine
   a therapeutic agent to which a patient is most likely to respond.
   Summary
       The assays described herein are assays for measuring relative or absolute levels of specific
30 unmodified peptides from the ER, PR, and the Ki67 proteins. Also, described herein are assays
   for measuring absolute or relative levels of specific modified peptides from the ER, PR, and Ki67
   proteins. Examples of modifications include phosphorylated amino acid residues (e.g.
   phosphotyrosine, phosphoserine and phosphothreonine) and glycosylated amino acid residues
   (e.g. glycosylated asparagine residues) that are present on the peptides.
35
                                                  1

           Relative quantitative levels of the ER, PR, and Ki67 proteins are determined by the
   SRM/MRM methodology, for example, by comparing SRM/MRM signature peak areas (for
   example, signature peak area or integrated fragment ion intensity) of an individual ER, PR,
   and/or Ki67 peptide in different samples.       Alternatively, it is possible to compare multiple
 5 SRM/MRM signature peak areas for multiple ER, PR, and/or Ki67 signature peptides, where
   each peptide has its own specific SRM/MRM signature peak, to determine the relative ER, PR,
   and/or Ki67 protein content in one biological sample with the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 protein
   content in one or more additional or different biological samples. In this way, the amount (or
   level) of a particular peptide, or peptides, from the ER, PR, and/or K167 proteins, and therefore
10 the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins, is determined relative to the same ER, PR,
   and/or Ki67 peptide, or peptides, across 2 or more biological samples under the same
   experimental conditions. In addition, relative quantitation can be determined for a given peptide,
   or peptides, from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins within a single sample by comparing the
   signature peak area for that peptide by SRM/MRM methodology to the signature peak area for
15 another and different peptide, or peptides, from a different protein, or proteins, within the same
   protein preparation from the biological sample. In this way, the amount of a particular peptide
   from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins, and therefore the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67
   protein, is determined relative one to another within the same sample.           These approaches
   generate quantitation of an individual peptide, or peptides, from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67
20 proteins to the amount of another peptide, or peptides, between samples and within samples
   wherein the amounts as determined by peak area are relative one to another, regardless of the
   absolute weight to volume or weight to weight amounts of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptide, or
   peptides, in the protein preparation from the biological sample. Relative quantitative data about
   individual signature peak areas between different samples are normalized to the amount of
25 protein analyzed per sample. Relative quantitation can be performed across many peptides from
   multiple proteins and the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins individually or simultaneously in a single
   sample and/or across many samples to gain insight into relative protein amounts, one
   peptide/protein with respect to other peptides/proteins.
           Absolute quantitative levels of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins are determined by, for
30 example, the SRM/MRM methodology whereby the SRM/MRM signature peak area of an
   individual peptide from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in one biological sample is compared
   to the SRM/MRM signature peak area of an exogenously added "spiked" internal standard. In
   one embodiment, the internal standard is a synthetic version of the same exact ER, PR, and/or
   Ki67 peptide that contains one or more amino acid residues labeled with one or more heavy
                                                     2

   isotopes. Suitable isotope labeled internal standards are synthesized so that when analyzed by
   mass spectrometry it generates a predictable and consistent SRM/MRM signature peak that is
   different and distinct from the native ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptide signature peak and which can
   be used as a comparator peak. Thus, when the internal standard is spiked in a known amount
 5 into a protein preparation from a biological sample and analyzed by mass spectrometry, the
   SRM/MRM signature peak area of the native peptide from the sample can be compared to the
   SRM/MRM signature peak area of the internal standard peptide.          This numerical comparison
   provides either the absolute molarity and/or absolute weight of the native peptide present in the
   original protein preparation from the biological sample. Absolute quantitative data for fragment
10 peptides are displayed according to the amount of protein analyzed per sample.            Absolute
   quantitation can be performed across many peptides, and thus proteins, simultaneously in a
   single sample and/or across many samples to gain insight into absolute protein amounts in
   individual biological samples and in entire cohorts of individual samples.
           The SRM/MRM assay method can be used to aid diagnosis of the stage of cancer, for
15 example, directly in patient-derived tissue, such as formalin fixed tissue, and to aid in
   determining which therapeutic agent would be most advantageous for use in treating that patient.
   Cancer tissue, including breast cancer tissue, that is removed from a patient either through
   surgery, such as for therapeutic removal of partial or entire tumors, or through biopsy procedures
   conducted to determine the presence or absence of suspected disease, is analyzed to determine
20 whether or not a specific protein, or proteins, and which forms of proteins, are present in that
   patient tissue. Moreover, the expression level of an individual protein such as ER, or multiple
   proteins such as ER, PR, and/or Ki67 can be determined, individually or in a simultaneous
   fashion, and compared to a "normal" or reference level for each protein or collections of proteins
   found in healthy tissue. Normal or reference levels of proteins found in healthy tissue may be
25 derived from, for example, the relevant tissues of one or more individuals that do not have
   cancer. Alternatively, normal or reference levels may be obtained for individuals with cancer by
   analysis of relevant tissues not affected by the cancer.
           Assays of protein levels (e.g., ER, PR, and/or K167 levels) can also be used to diagnose
   the stage of cancer, including breast cancer, in a patient or subject diagnosed with cancer by
30 employing the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 levels. Levels or amounts of proteins or peptides can be
   defined as the quantity expressed in moles, mass or weight of a protein or peptide determined by
   the SRM/MRM assay. The level or amount may be normalized to total the level or amount of
   protein or another component in the lysate analyzed (e.g., expressed in micromoles/microgram of
   protein or micrograms /microgram of protein). In addition, the level or amount of a protein or
35 peptide may be determined on volume basis, expressed, for example, in micromolar or
                                                      3

   nanograms/microliter.      The level or amount of protein or peptide as determined by the
   SRM/MRM assay can also be normalized to the number of cells analyzed.                     Information
   regarding ER, PR, and/or Ki67 can thus be used to aid in determining stage or grade of a cancer
   by correlating the level of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins (or fragment peptides of the ER, PR,
 5 and/or K167 proteins) with levels observed in normal tissues.
           Once the stage and/or grade, and/or ER, PR, and/or Ki67 protein expression
   characteristics of the cancer, including breast cancer, has been determined, that information can
   be matched to a list of therapeutic agents (chemical and biological) developed to specifically
   treat cancer tissue that is characterized by, for example, abnormal expression of the protein or
10 protein(s) (e.g., ER, PR, and/or Ki67) that were assayed. Matching information from an ER, PR,
   and/or K167 protein assay to a list of therapeutic agents that specifically targets, for example, the
   ER, PR, and/or K167 protein or cells/tissue expressing the protein, defines what has been termed
   a personalized medicine approach to treating disease. The assay methods described herein form
   the foundation of a personalized medicine approach by using analysis of proteins from the
15 patient's own tissue as a source for diagnostic and treatment decisions. These proteins (ER, PR,
   and/or K167) can be used individually, doubly, or all three (3) simultaneously in a personalized
   medicine approach to not only breast cancer but any other cancer as well. This collection of
   proteins is most advantageously applied to breast cancer diagnosis and treatment.
           These and other aspects of the present disclosure will become apparent to the skilled
20 person in view of the description set forth below.\
   Detailed Description
           The Selected Reaction Monitoring/Multiple Reaction Monitoring (SRM/MRM) assay can
   be used to measure relative or absolute quantitative levels of one or more of the specific peptides
25 from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins, individually, in combinations, or simultaneously, and
   therefore provide a means of measuring the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a
   given protein preparation obtained from a biological sample by mass spectrometry.
           More specifically, the SRM/MRM assay can measure these peptides directly in complex
   protein lysate samples prepared from cells procured from patient tissue samples, such as
30 formalin fixed cancer patient tissue. Methods of preparing protein samples from formalin fixed
   tissue are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,473,532, the contents of which are hereby incorporated
   by references in their entireties.    The methods described in U.S. Patent No. 7,473,532 may
   conveniently be carried out using Liquid TissueTM reagents and protocol available from
   Expression Pathology Inc. (Rockville, MD).
                                                     4

           The most widely and advantageously available form of tissues from cancer patients tissue
   is formalin fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Formaldehyde/formalin fixation of surgically
   removed tissue is by far and away the most common method of preserving cancer tissue samples
   worldwide and is the accepted convention for standard pathology practice. Aqueous solutions of
 5 formaldehyde are referred to as formalin. "100%" formalin consists of a saturated solution of
   formaldehyde (this is about 40% by volume or 37% by mass) in water, with a small amount of
   stabilizer, usually methanol to limit oxidation and degree of polymerization. The most common
   way in which tissue is preserved is to soak whole tissue for extended periods of time (8 hours to
   48 hours) in aqueous formaldehyde, commonly termed 10% neutral buffered formalin, followed
10 by embedding the fixed whole tissue in paraffin wax for long term storage at room temperature.
   Thus molecular analytical methods to analyze formalin fixed cancer tissue will be the most
   accepted and heavily utilized methods for analysis of cancer patient tissue.
           In principle, any predicted peptide derived from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins,
   prepared for example by digesting with a protease of known specificity (e.g. trypsin), can be
15 used as a surrogate reporter to determine the abundance of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a
   sample using a mass spectrometry-based SRM/MRM assay.             Similarly, any predicted peptide
   sequence containing an amino acid residue at a site that is known to be potentially modified in
   the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins also might potentially be used to assay the extent of
   modification of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a sample.
20         According to one embodiment, ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides may be generated
   in a variety of ways including using Liquid TissueTM protocol described, for example, in US
   Patent 7,473,532. Liquid TissueTM protocol and reagents produce peptide samples suitable for
   mass spectroscopic analysis from formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissue by proteolytic
   digestion of the proteins in the tissue/biological sample. Suitable reagents and protocols also are
25 commercially available from OncoPlexDx (formerly Expression Pathology Inc., Rockville, MD).
           In the Liquid TissueTM protocol the tissue/biological is heated in a buffer for an extended
   period of time (e.g., from about 800 C to about 1000 C for a period of time from about 10
   minutes to about 4 hours) to reverse or release protein cross-linking. The buffer employed is a
   neutral buffer, (e.g., a Tris-based buffer, or a buffer containing a detergent).    Following heat
30 treatment the tissue/biological sample is treated with one or more proteases, including but not
   limited to trypsin, chymotrypsin, pepsin, and endoproteinase Lys-C for a time sufficient to
   disrupt the tissue and cellular structure of the biological sample and to liquefy the sample.
   Exemplary conditions for the protease treatment are from 30 minutes to 24 hours at a
   temperature from 370 C to 650 C).               Advantageously, endoproteases,    and particularly
35 combinations of two or three endoproteases, used either simultaneously or sequentially, are
                                                      5

   employed to liquefy the sample. For example, suitable combinations of proteases can include,
   but are not limited to, combinations of trypsin, endoproteinase Lys-C and chemotrypsin, such as
   trypsin and endoproteinase Lys-C. The result of the heating and proteolysis is a liquid, soluble,
   dilutable biomolecule lysate. Advantageously, this liquid lysate is free of solid or particulate
 5 matter that can be separated from the lysate by centrifugation.
           Surprisingly, it was found that many potential peptide sequences from the ER, PR, and/or
   K167 proteins are unsuitable or ineffective for use in mass spectrometry-based SRM/MRM
   assays for reasons that are not immediately evident. As it was not possible to predict the most
   suitable peptides for MRM/SRM assay, it was necessary to experimentally identify modified and
10 unmodified peptides in actual Liquid TissueTM lysates to develop a reliable and accurate
   SRM/MRM assay for the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins. While not wishing to be bound by any
   theory, it is believed that some peptides might, for example, be difficult to detect by mass
   spectrometry because they do not ionize well or produce fragments that are not distinct from
   those generated from other proteins.      Peptides may also fail to resolve well in separation (e.g.,
15 liquid chromatography), or may adhere to glass or plastic ware.
           ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptides found in various embodiments of this disclosure (e.g.,
   Tables 1 and 2 below) were derived from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins by protease digestion
   of all the proteins within a complex Liquid TissueTM lysate prepared from cells procured from
   formalin fixed cancer tissue. Unless noted otherwise, in each instance the protease was trypsin.
20 The Liquid TissueTM lysate was then analyzed by mass spectrometry to determine those peptides
   derived from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins that are detected and analyzed by mass
   spectrometry. Identification of a specific preferred subset of peptides for mass-spectrometric
   analysis is based on: 1) experimental determination of which peptide or peptides from a protein
   ionize in mass spectrometry analyses of Liquid TissueTM lysates, and 2) the ability of the peptide
25 to survive the protocol and experimental conditions used in preparing a Liquid TissueTM lysate.
   This latter property extends not only to the amino acid sequence of the peptide but also to the
   ability of a modified amino acid residue within a peptide to survive in modified form during the
   sample preparation.
           Protein lysates from cells procured directly from formalin (formaldehyde) fixed tissue
30 were prepared using the Liquid TissueTM reagents and protocol. This entails collecting cells into
   a sample tube via tissue microdissection followed by heating the cells in the Liquid TissueTM
   buffer for an extended period of time.         Once the formalin-induced cross linking has been
   negatively affected, the tissue/cells are then digested to completion in a predictable manner using
   a protease, such as, trypsin.    The skilled artisan will recognize that other proteases, and in
35 particular, endoproteases may be used in place of, or in addition to, trypsin. Each protein lysate
                                                      6

   was used to prepare a collection of peptides by digestion of intact polypeptides with the protease
   or protease combination.     Each protein lysate is used to prepare a collection of peptides by
   digestion of intact polypeptides with the protease or protease combination.            Each Liquid
   TissueTM lysate was analyzed (e.g., by ion trap mass spectrometry) to perform multiple global
 5 proteomic surveys of the peptides where the data was presented as identification of as many
   peptides as could be identified by mass spectrometry from all cellular proteins present in each
   protein lysate. An ion trap mass spectrometer or another form of a mass spectrometer that is
   capable of performing global profiling for identification of as many peptides as possible from a
   single complex protein/peptide lysate is employed. Ion trap mass spectrometers may, however,
10 be the best type of mass spectrometer for conducting global profiling of peptides.        Although
   SRM/MRM assays can be developed and performed on any type of mass spectrometer, including
   a MALDI, ion trap, or triple quadrupole is an advantageous instrument platform for SRM/MRM
   assays is often considered to be a triple quadrupole instrument platform.
            Once as many peptides as possible were identified in a single mass spectrometric analysis
15 of a single lysate under the conditions employed, then the list of identified peptides was collated
   and used to determine the proteins that were detected in that lysate. This process was repeated
   for multiple Liquid TissueTM lysates, and the very large list of peptides was collated into a single
   dataset.    The resulting dataset represents the peptides that can be detected in the type of
   biological sample that was analyzed (after protease digestion), and specifically in a Liquid
20 TissueTM lysate of the biological sample, and thus includes the peptides for specific proteins,
   such as for example the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins.
            In one embodiment, the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 tryptic peptides identified as useful in the
   determination of absolute or relative amounts of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins include one or
   more, two or more, three or more, four or more, five or more, six or more, eight or more, or nine
25 or more of the peptides of SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID
   NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:8, SEQ ID NO:9 and/or SEQ ID NO:10, each
   of which are listed in Table 1. Each of those peptides was detected by mass spectrometry in
   Liquid TissueTM lysates prepared from formalin fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Thus, each of
   the peptides in Table 1, or any combination of those peptides (e.g., one or more, two or more,
30 three or more, four or more, five or more, six or more, eight or more, or ten or more of those
   peptides recited in Table 1, and particularly combinations with the peptides found in Table 2) are
   candidates for use in quantitative SRM/MRM assay for the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in
   human biological samples, including directly in formalin fixed patient tissue, and more
   specifically in formalin fixed breast cancer patient tissue. Table 2 shows additional information
35 regarding some of the peptides shown in Table 1.
                                                    7

  Table 1
      SEQ ID                                        Peptide Sequence
  SEQ ID NO:     1     Leu Ala Gln Leu Leu Leu Ile Leu Ser His Ile Arg
  SEQ ID NO:     2     Leu Leu Phe Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Leu Asp Arg
  SEQ ID NO:     3     Ala Gly Leu Thr Leu Gln Gln Gln His Gln Arg
  SEQ ID NO:     4     Val Leu Leu Leu Leu Asn Thr Ile Pro Leu Glu Gly Leu Arg
  SEQ ID NO:     5     Val Gly Asp Ser Ser Gly Thr Ala Ala Ala His Lys
  SEQ ID NO:     6     Leu Asp Leu Thr Glu Asn Leu Thr Gly Ser Lys
  SEQ ID NO:     7     Val Glu Pro Val Gly Asp Val Val Ser Thr Arg
  SEQ ID NO:     8     Ala Ala Asn Leu Trp Pro Ser Pro Leu Met Ile Lys
  SEQ ID NO:     9     Asn Val Val Pro Leu Tyr Asp Leu Leu Leu Glu Met Leu Asp Ala His
                       Arg
  SEQ ID NO: 10        Ser Leu Pro Gly Phe Arg
  Table 2
                                            MonoMonoPrecrsorPrecursor
                                                   Precursor.         Transition Ion
             SEQ ID       Peptide sequence Isotopic Charge      m/z      rn/z    Type
                                             Mass    State
          SEQ ID NO: 1  LAQLLLILSHIR       1388.89     2      695.451   738.462    y6
                                                       2      695.451   851.546    y7
                                                       2      695.451    964.63    y8
                                                       2      695.451  1077.714    y9
          SEQ ID NO: 2  LLFAPNLLLDR        1283.76     2      642.887   840.493    y7
                                                       2      642.887    911.53    y8
                                                       2      642.887  1058.599    y9
          SEQ ID NO: 3  AGLTLQQQHQR        1278.68     2      640.347   696.353    y5
                                                       2      640.347   824.412    y6
                                                       2      640.347   937.496    y7
                                                       2      640.347  1038.543    y8
          SEQ ID NO: 4  VLLLLNTIPLEGLR     1562.98     2      782.495   684.403    y6
                                                       2      782.495   898.535    y8
                                                       2      782.495  1012.578    y9
                                                       2      782.495  1125.662   Y10
          SEQ ID NO: 5  VGDSSGTAAAHK       1099.53     2       550.77    598.33    y6
                                                       2       550.77   655.352    y7
                                                       2       550.77   742.384    y8
                                                       2       550.77   829.416    y9
                                                       2       550.77   944.443   y10
          SEQ ID NO: 6  LDLTEN LTGSK       1189.62     2      595.817    619.34    y6
                                                       2      595.817   748.383    y7
                                                       2      595.817   849.431    y8
                                                       2      595.817   962.515    y9
          SEQ ID NO: 7  VEPVGDVVSTR        1156.61     2      579.312   561.335    y5
                                                       2      579.312   733.383    y7
                                                       2      579.312   832.452    y8
                                                       2      579.312   929.505    y9
5        The ER, PR, and/or Ki67 tryptic peptides listed in Table 1 include those detected from
  multiple Liquid TissueTM lysates of multiple different formalin fixed tissues of different human
  organs including prostate, colon, and breast. Each of those peptides is considered useful for
                                                   8

   quantitative SRM/MRM assay of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in formalin fixed tissue.
   Further data analysis of these experiments indicated no preference is observed for any specific
   peptides from any specific organ site. Thus, each of these peptides is believed to be suitable for
   conducting SRM/MRM assays of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins on a Liquid TissueTM lysate
 5 from any formalin fixed tissue originating from any biological sample or from any organ site in
   the body.
            One consideration for conducting an SRM/MRM assay is the type of instrument that may
   be employed in the analysis of the peptides. Although SRM/MRM assays can be developed and
   performed on any type of mass spectrometer, including a MALDI, ion trap, or triple quadrupole,
10 the most advantageous instrument platform for SRM/MRM assay is often considered to be a
   triple quadrupole instrument platform. That type of a mass spectrometer may be considered to
   be the most suitable instrument for analyzing a single isolated target peptide within a very
   complex protein lysate that may consist of hundreds of thousands to millions of individual
   peptides from all the proteins contained within a cell.
15          In order to most efficiently implement an SRM/MRM assay for each peptide derived
   from the ER, PR, and/or K167 proteins it is desirable to utilize information in addition to the
   peptide sequence in the analysis.     That additional information may be used in directing and
   instructing the mass spectrometer (e.g. a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer), to perform the
   correct and focused analysis of specific targeted peptide(s), such that the assay may be
20 effectively performed.
            The additional information about target peptides in general, and about specific ER, PR,
   and/or Ki67 peptides, may include one or more of the mono isotopic mass of the peptide, its
   precursor charge state, the precursor m/z value, the m/z transition ions, and the ion type of each
   transition ion. Table 2 shows additional information for some peptides shown in Table 1 that
25 may be used to develop an SRM/MRM assay for the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins.
            The methods described below can be used to: 1) identify candidate peptides from the ER,
   PR, and/or Ki67 proteins that can be used for a mass spectrometry-based SRM/MRM assay for
   the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins, 2) develop individual SRM/MRM assays, or multiplexed
   assays, for target peptides from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in order to correlate to breast
30 cancer, and 3) apply quantitative assays to breast cancer diagnosis and/or choice of optimal
   therapy for breast cancer, and any other cancer analyzed by described SRM/MRM assays.
                                                    9

                                                Assay Methods
    I. Identification of SRM/MRM candidate fragment peptides for the ER, PR, and/or Ki67
       proteins:
             a. Prepare a Liquid TissueTM protein lysate from a formalin fixed biological sample
 5               using a protease or proteases, (that may or may not include trypsin), to digest proteins
             b. Analyze all protein fragments in the Liquid TissueTM lysate on an ion trap tandem
                 mass spectrometer and identify all fragment peptides from the ER, PR, and/or K167
                 proteins, where individual       fragment peptides do not contain any peptide
                 modifications such as phosphorylations or glycosylations
10           c. Analyze all protein fragments in the Liquid TissueTM lysate on an ion trap tandem
                 mass spectrometer and identify all fragment peptides from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67
                 proteins that carry peptide modifications such as for example phosphorylated or
                 glycosylated residues
             d. All peptides generated by a specific digestion method from the entire, full length ER,
15               PR, and/or Ki67 proteins potentially can be measured, but preferred peptides used for
                 development of the SRM/MRM assay are those that are identified by mass
                 spectrometry directly in a complex Liquid TissueTM protein lysate prepared from a
                 formalin fixed biological sample
             e. Peptides that are specifically modified (phosphorylated, glycosylated, etc.) in patient
20               tissue and which ionize, and thus detected, in a mass spectrometer when analyzing a
                 Liquid TissueTM lysate from a formalin fixed biological sample are identified as
                 candidate peptides for assaying peptide modifications of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67
                 proteins
   II. Mass Spectrometry Assay for Fragment Peptides from ER, PR, and/or Ki67 Proteins
25           a. SRM/MRM assay on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer for individual fragment
                 peptides identified in a Liquid TissueTM lysate is applied to peptides from the ER, PR,
                 and/or Ki67 proteins
                      i. Determine optimal retention time for a fragment peptide for optimal
                         chromatography conditions including but not limited to gel electrophoresis,
30                       liquid chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, nano-reversed phase liquid
                         chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, or reverse phase
                         high performance liquid chromatography
                     ii. Determine the mono isotopic mass of the peptide, the precursor charge state
                         for each peptide, the precursor m/z value for each peptide, the m/z transition
                                                       10

              ions for each peptide, and the ion type of each transition ion for each fragment
              peptide in order to develop an SRM/MRM assay for each peptide.
         iii. SRM/MRM assay can then be conducted using the information from (i) and
              (ii) on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer where each peptide has a
 5            characteristic and unique SRM/MRM signature peak that precisely defines the
              unique SRM/MRM assay as performed on a triple quadrupole mass
              spectrometer
   b. Perform SRM/MRM analysis so that the amount of the fragment peptide of the ER,
      PR, and/or Ki67 proteins that is detected, as a function of the unique SRM/MRM
10    signature peak area from an SRM/MRM mass spectrometry analysis, can indicate
      both the relative and absolute amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a
      particular protein lysate.
           i. Relative quantitation may be achieved by:
                   1. Determining increased or decreased presence of the ER, PR, and/or
15                    Ki67 proteins by comparing the SRM/MRM signature peak area from
                      a given ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptide detected in a Liquid TissueTM
                      lysate from one formalin fixed biological sample to the same
                      SRM/MRM signature peak area of the same ER, PR, and/or Ki67
                      fragment peptide in at least a second, third, fourth or more Liquid
20                    TissueTM lysates from least a second, third, fourth or more formalin
                      fixed biological samples.
                   2. Determining increased or decreased presence of the ER, PR, and/or
                      Ki67 proteins by comparing the SRM/MRM signature peak area from
                      a given ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptide detected in a Liquid TissueTM
25                    lysate from one formalin fixed biological sample to SRM/MRM
                      signature peak areas developed from fragment peptides from other
                      proteins, in other samples derived from different and separate
                      biological sources,    where the SRM/MRM signature peak area
                      comparison between the 2 samples for a peptide fragment are
30                    normalized to amount of protein analyzed in each sample.
                   3. Determining increased or decreased presence of the ER, PR, and/or
                      Ki67 proteins by comparing the SRM/MRM signature peak area for a
                      given ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptide to the SRM/MRM signature peak
                      areas from other fragment peptides derived from different proteins
                                            11

                                within the same Liquid TissueTM lysate from the formalin fixed
                                biological sample in order to normalize changing levels of ER, PR,
                                and/or Ki67 proteins to levels of other proteins that do not change their
                                levels of expression under various cellular conditions.
 5                          4. These assays can be applied to both unmodified fragment peptides and
                                for modified fragment peptides of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins,
                                where the modifications include but are not limited to phosphorylation
                                and/or glycosylation, and where the relative levels of modified
                                peptides are determined in the same manner as determining relative
10                              amounts of unmodified peptides.
                    ii. Absolute quantitation of a given peptide may be achieved by comparing the
                        SRM/MRM signature peak area for a given fragment peptide from the ER,
                        PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in an individual biological sample to the SRM/MRM
                        signature peak area of an internal fragment peptide standard spiked into the
15                      protein lysate from the biological sample.
                            1. The internal standard is a labeled synthetic version of the fragment
                                peptide from the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins that is being
                                interrogated. This standard is spiked into a sample in known amounts,
                                and the SRM/MRM signature peak area can be determined for both the
20                              internal fragment peptide standard and the native fragment peptide in
                                the biological sample separately, followed by comparison of both peak
                                areas.
                            2. This can be applied to unmodified fragment peptides and modified
                                fragment peptides, where the modifications include but are not limited
25                              to phosphorylation and/or glycosylation, and where the absolute levels
                                of modified peptides can be determined in the same manner as
                                determining absolute levels of unmodified peptides.
   III. Apply Fragment Peptide Quantitation to Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment
             a. Perform relative and/or absolute quantitation of fragment peptide levels of the ER,
30              PR, and/or Ki67 proteins and demonstrate that the previously-determined association,
                as well understood in the field of cancer, of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 protein expression
                to the stage/grade/status of cancer in patient tumor tissue is confirmed.
             b. Perform relative and/or absolute quantitation of fragment peptide levels of the ER,
                PR, and/or Ki67 proteins individually, in combinations, or all simultaneously, and
                                                      12

                demonstrate correlation with clinical outcomes from different treatment strategies,
                wherein this correlation has already been demonstrated in the field or can be
                demonstrated in the future through correlation studies across cohorts of patients and
                tissue from those patients.       Once either previously established correlations or
 5              correlations derived in the future are confirmed by this assay then the assay method
                can be used to determine optimal treatment strategy.
           The information shown in Table 2 is desirable to develop an SRM/MRM assay for
   quantitation of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins on a triplequadrupole mass spectrometer.
   Specific and unique characteristics about these ER, PR, and/or K167 peptides were developed by
10 analysis of all ER, PR, and/or Ki67 peptides on an ion trap and/or triple quadrupole mass
   spectrometers. That information includes the monoisotopic mass of the peptide, its precursor
   charge state, the precursor m/z value, the transition m/z values of the precursor, and the ion types
   of each of the identified transitions. That information must be determined experimentally for
   each and every candidate SRM/MRM peptide directly in Liquid TissueTM lysates from formalin
15 fixed tissue; because, interestingly, not all peptides from the ER, PR, and/or K167 proteins can be
   detected in such lysates using SRM/MRM as described herein, indicating that ER, PR, and/or
   Ki67 peptides not detected cannot be considered candidate peptides for developing an
   SRM/MRM assay for use in quantitating peptides/proteins directly in Liquid TissueTM lysates
   from formalin fixed tissue.
20         Utilizing this information, quantitative SRM/MRM assays can be developed for the ER,
   PR, and/or Ki67 proteins, and assessment of ER, PR, and/or K167 protein levels in tissues based
   on analysis of formalin fixed breast cancer patient-derived tissue can provide diagnostic,
   prognostic, and therapeutically-relevant information about each particular breast cancer patient
   and/or cancer patient that has a different cancer that is not breast cancer.
25         In one embodiment, this disclosure describes a method for measuring the level of the ER,
   PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a biological sample, comprising detecting and/or quantifying the
   amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in a
   protein digest prepared from the biological sample using mass spectrometry; and calculating the
   level of modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in the sample; and wherein the
30 level is a relative level or an absolute level. In a related embodiment, this disclosure provides a
   method for quantifying one or more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides, wherein the method
   comprises determining the amount of one or more of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides
   in a biological sample by comparison to an added internal standard peptide of known amount,
   wherein each of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in the biological sample is compared
                                                      13

   to an internal standard peptide having the same amino acid sequence. In some embodiments the
   internal standard is an isotopically labeled internal standard peptide comprising one or more
   heavy stable isotopes selected from 180,    0, 3S,   "N,  1C, 2H or combinations thereof.
           The methods for measuring levels of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a biological
 5 sample described herein (or fragment peptides as surrogates thereof) are useful as diagnostic
   indicators of cancer in a patient or subject.          In one embodiment, the results from the
   measurements of levels of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 protein may be employed to determine the
   diagnostic stage/grade/status of a breast cancer, or another cancer that is not of breast origin, by
   correlating (e.g., comparing) the level of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins found in a tissue with the
10 level of these proteins found in normal and/or cancerous or precancerous tissues.
                                                      14

   Embodiments:
   1. A method for measuring the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a biological
       sample, comprising detecting and/or quantifying the amount of one or more modified or
       unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in a protein digest prepared from the
 5     biological sample using mass spectrometry; and calculating the amount of modified or
       unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in the sample; and
       wherein the amount is a relative amount or an absolute amount.
   2. The method of embodiment 1, further comprising the step of fractionating the protein digest
       prior to detecting and/or quantifying the amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER,
10     PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides.
   3. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the fractionating step is selected from the group
       consisting of gel electrophoresis, liquid chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, nano
       reversed phase liquid chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, and reverse
       phase high performance liquid chromatography.
15 4. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 3, wherein the protein digest of the biological sample
       is prepared by the Liquid TissueTM protocol.
   5. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 3, wherein the protein digest comprises a protease
   digest.
   6. The method of embodiment 5, wherein the protein digest comprises a trypsin digest.
20 7. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 6, wherein the mass spectrometry comprises tandem
       mass spectrometry, ion trap mass spectrometry, triple quadrupole mass spectrometry,
       MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, MALDI mass spectrometry, or time of flight mass
       spectrometry, or any combination thereof.
   8. The method of embodiment 7, wherein the mode of mass spectrometry used is Selected
25 Reaction Monitoring (SRM), Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM), or multiple Selected
   Reaction Monitoring (mSRM), or any combination thereof.
   9. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 8, wherein the one or more modified or unmodified
       ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides comprise two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine
       or ten different amino acid sequence independently selected from those set forth as SEQ ID
30     NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID
       NO:7, SEQ ID NO:8, SEQ ID NO:9, and SEQ ID NO:10.
                                                    15

   10. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 9, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample,
       a urine sample, a serum sample, an ascites sample, a sputum sample, lymphatic fluid, a saliva
       sample, a cell, or a solid tissue.
   11. The method of embodiment 10, wherein the tissue is formalin fixed tissue.
 5 12. The method of embodiment 10 or 11, wherein the tissue is paraffin embedded tissue.
   13. The method of embodiment 10, wherein the tissue is obtained from a tumor.
   14. The method of embodiment 13, wherein the tumor is a primary tumor.
   15. The method of embodiment 13, wherein the tumor is a secondary tumor.
   16. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 15, further comprising quantifying a modified or
10     unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptide.
   17. The method of embodiment 16, wherein quantifying a modified or unmodified fragment
       peptide comprises comparing the amount of one or more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment
       peptides comprising an amino acid sequence of about 8 to about 45 amino acid residues of
       ER, PR, and/or Ki67 as shown in SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID
15     NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:8, SEQ ID NO:9 and SEQ
       ID NO: 10 in one biological sample to the amount of the same ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment
       peptide in a different and separate biological sample.
   18. The method of embodiment 17, wherein quantifying one or more modified or unmodified
       ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides comprises determining the amount of each of said
20     one or more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in a biological sample by comparison to
       an added internal standard peptide of a known amount, wherein each of the ER, PR, and/or
       Ki67 fragment peptides in the biological sample is compared to an internal standard peptide
       having the same amino acid sequence.
   19. The method of embodiment 18, wherein the internal standard peptide is an isotopically
25     labeled peptide.
   20. The method of embodiment 19, wherein the isotopically labeled internal standard peptide
       comprises one or more heavy stable isotopes selected from the group consisting of 1 0,   10,
       34    15   13      2
          S,   N,   C, and H, or any combinations thereof.
   21. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 20, wherein detecting and/or quantifying the amount
30     of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in the protein
       digest indicates the presence of modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins and an
       association with cancer, and in particular breast cancer, in the subject.
                                                     16

   22. The method of embodiment 21, further comprising correlating the results of detecting and/or
       quantifying amounts of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment
       peptides, or the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins to the diagnostic
       stage/grade/status of the cancer.
 5 23. The method of embodiment 22, wherein correlating the results of detecting and/or
       quantifying the amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67
       fragment peptides, or the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 protein to the diagnostic
       stage/grade/status of the cancer is combined with detected and/or quantified amounts of other
       proteins, or peptides from other proteins, in a multiplex format to provide additional
10     information about the diagnostic stage/grade/status of the cancer.
   24. The method of any one of embodiments 1 to 23, further comprising selecting for the subject,
       from which the biological sample is obtained, a treatment based on the presence, absence, or
       amount of one or more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides or the amount of ER, PR,
       and/or Ki67 proteins.
15 25. The method of any one of embodiments 1 to 24, further comprising administering to the
       patient, from which the biological sample is obtained, a therapeutically effective amount of a
       therapeutic agent, wherein the therapeutic agent and/or amount of the therapeutic agent
       administered is based upon the amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR,
       and/or K167 fragment peptides or the amount of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins.
20 26. The method of embodiments 24 or 25, wherein the treatment or the therapeutic agent is
       directed to cancer cells expressing ER, PR, and/or K167 proteins.
   27. The method of any of embodiments 1 to 26, wherein the biological sample is formalin fixed
       tumor tissue that has been processed for quantifying the amount of one or more modified or
       unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides employing the Liquid TissueTM protocol
25     and reagents.
   28. The method of any of embodiments 1-27, wherein said one or more modified or unmodified
       ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides is one or more, two or more, three or more, four or
       more, five or more, or six or more of the peptides in Table 1.
   29. The method of any of embodiments 1-28, comprising quantifying the amount of one, two,
30     three, four, five, six, or seven of the peptides in Table 2.
   30. A composition comprising one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten of the
       peptides in Table 1 or antibodies thereto, said composition optionally excluding one, two,
                                                       17

        three, four, five, or more peptides of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 that are not peptides of SEQ
        ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10.
   31. The composition of embodiment 30, comprising one, two, three, four, five, six, or seven
 5      of the peptides of Table 2 or antibodies thereto, said composition optionally excluding
        one, two, three, four, five, or more peptides of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 that are not peptides
        of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7.
            It is to be understood that the description, specific examples and data, while indicating
 0 exemplary aspects, are given by way of illustration and are not intended to limit the present
   disclosure. Various changes and modifications within the present disclosure will become
   apparent to the skilled artisan from the discussion, detailed description and data contained
   herein, and thus are considered part of the subject matter of this application.
 5          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
   be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
   but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 0          The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
   from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
   in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
25
                                                     18

Claims:
1.       A method for measuring the amount of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in a biological
sample, comprising detecting and/or quantifying the amount of one or more modified or
unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in a protein digest prepared from the
biological sample using mass spectrometry; and calculating the amount of modified or
unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins in the sample; and
wherein the amount is a relative amount or an absolute amount.
2.       The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of fractionating the protein digest
prior to detecting and/or quantifying the amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR,
and/or Ki67 fragment peptides.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the fractionating step is selected from the group
consisting of gel electrophoresis, liquid chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, nano
reversed phase liquid chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, and reverse
phase high performance liquid chromatography.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the protein digest of the biological sample is prepared by
the Liquid TissueTM protocol.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the protein digest comprises a protease digest.
6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the protein digest comprises a trypsin digest.
7.       The method of claim 1, wherein the mass spectrometry comprises tandem mass
spectrometry, ion trap mass spectrometry, triple quadrupole mass spectrometry, MALDI-TOF
mass spectrometry, MALDI mass spectrometry, or time of flight mass spectrometry, or any
combination thereof.
8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the mode of mass spectrometry used is Selected
Reaction Monitoring (SRM), Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM), or multiple Selected
Reaction Monitoring (mSRM), or any combination thereof.
9.       The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or
Ki67 fragment peptides comprise two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten different
amino acid sequence independently selected from those set forth as SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID
NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID
NO:8, SEQ ID NO:9, and SEQ ID NO:10.
10.      The method of claim 1, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample, a urine sample,
a serum sample, an ascites sample, a sputum sample, lymphatic fluid, a saliva sample, a cell, or a
solid tissue.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the tissue is formalin fixed tissue.
                                                19

12.     The method of claim 10, wherein the tissue is paraffin embedded tissue.
13.     The method of claim 10, wherein the tissue is obtained from a tumor.
14.     The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is a primary tumor.
15.     The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is a secondary tumor.
16.     The method of claim 1, further comprising quantifying a modified or unmodified ER, PR,
and/or Ki67 fragment peptide.
17.     The method of claim 16, wherein quantifying a modified or unmodified fragment peptide
comprises comparing the amount of one or more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides
comprising an amino acid sequence of about 8 to about 45 amino acid residues of ER, PR, and/or
Ki67 as shown in SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5,
SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:8, SEQ ID NO:9                  and SEQ ID NO:10 in one
biological sample to the amount of the same ER, PR, and/or K167 fragment peptide in a different
and separate biological sample.
18.     The method of claim 17, wherein quantifying one or more modified or unmodified ER,
PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides comprises determining the amount of each of said one or
more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in a biological sample by comparison to an added
internal standard peptide of a known amount, wherein each of the ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment
peptides in the biological sample is compared to an internal standard peptide having the same
amino acid sequence.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the internal standard peptide is an isotopically labeled
peptide.
20.     The method of claim 19, wherein the isotopically labeled internal standard peptide
comprises one or more heavy stable isotopes selected from the group consisting of 180,  17o,
                                                                                             34
                                                                                                s,
1N, 1C,   and  2H, or any combinations thereof.
21.     The method of claim 1, wherein detecting and/or quantifying the amount of one or more
modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides in the protein digest indicates
the presence of modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins and an association with
cancer, and in particular breast cancer, in the subject.
22.     The method of claim 21, further comprising correlating the results of detecting and/or
quantifying amounts of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment
peptides, or the amount of the ER, PR, and/or K167 proteins to the diagnostic stage/grade/status
of the cancer.
23.     The method of claim 22, wherein correlating the results of detecting and/or quantifying
the amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides, or
the amount of the ER, PR, and/or K167 protein to the diagnostic stage/grade/status of the cancer
                                                  20

is combined with detected and/or quantified amounts of other proteins, or peptides from other
proteins, in a multiplex format to provide additional information about the diagnostic
stage/grade/status of the cancer.
24.      The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting for the subject, from which the
biological sample is obtained, a treatment based on the presence, absence, or amount of one or
more ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides or the amount of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins.
25.      The method of claim 1, further comprising administering to the patient, from which the
biological sample is obtained, a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent, wherein
the therapeutic agent and/or amount of the therapeutic agent administered is based upon the
amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or Ki67 fragment peptides or the
amount of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins.
26.      The method of claim 1, wherein the treatment or the therapeutic agent is directed to
cancer cells expressing ER, PR, and/or Ki67 proteins.
27.      The method of claim 1, wherein the biological sample is formalin fixed tumor tissue that
has been processed for quantifying the amount of one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR,
and/or Ki67 fragment peptides employing the Liquid TissueTM protocol and reagents.
28.      The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more modified or unmodified ER, PR, and/or
Ki67 fragment peptides is one or more, two or more, three or more, four or more, five or more,
or six or more of the peptides in Table 1.
29.      The method of claim 1, comprising quantifying the amount of the peptides in Table 2.
30.      A composition comprising one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten of the
peptides in Table 1 or antibodies thereto, said composition optionally excluding one, two, three,
four, five, or more peptides of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 that are not peptides of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10.
31.      The composition of claim 30, comprising one, two, three, four, five, six, or seven of the
peptides of Table 2 or antibodies thereto, said composition optionally excluding one, two, three,
four, five, or more peptides of ER, PR, and/or Ki67 that are not peptides of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, or 7.
                                                21

                                                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                                           <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+270E><U+261E><U+2711>
              <U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+271D><U+2723><U+271A><U+2724><U+271A><U+2725><U+2726> <U+270E><U+271B><U+2727><U+2706>
              <U+2712> <U+2605><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+2729><U+272A><U+2724><U+271D><U+2719><U+2715><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2729> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2718><U+2722><U+2726> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2716> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2722><U+2724><U+272A><U+2722><U+271D><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271A><U+272D> <U+270C><U+2722><U+271B><U+2727><U+2717><U+2716>
              <U+2712> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+2713>     <U+2730><U+2605><U+2731><U+2732><U+2713><U+2605><U+2701><U+2706><U+2733><U+2734><U+2713><U+2713>
              <U+2712> <U+2730><U+2713><U+2714> <U+261B><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2735><U+2730><U+272F><U+2736><U+2737><U+2702> <U+2732>
              <U+2712> <U+2730> <U+2714> <U+2605><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2713><U+2702><U+2731><U+2605><U+2605>
              <U+2712> <U+2701><U+2713><U+2714>     <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712> <U+2736><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2722><U+271D><U+2717><U+271B><U+271D><U+270E><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2706><U+2730>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2738><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+271C><U+2723><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2718><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2738><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704>
              <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2718><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2724><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2730>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+2730>
              <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2715> <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+2738><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2718>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
                                                   <U+271C><U+2722><U+2725><U+2717>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2724><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2718><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2718>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2736>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718><U+2732>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+2736>
              <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2724><U+272A> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2732>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+2732>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2718><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2717><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2718>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714>    <U+2736>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702>
              <U+272C><U+2718><U+271B> <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+273A><U+2722><U+2724> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270F><U+2726><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2724><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2717><U+271D> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272C><U+2718><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2724><U+2722> <U+2738><U+2719><U+2718>
                              <U+2730>                    <U+2713>                   <U+2730>
              <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714>  <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271C><U+272B><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2714> <U+2738><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714>       <U+2713>
              <U+271F><U+2717><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2717><U+272A> <U+271C><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2726> <U+271C><U+2723><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2725>
                              <U+2730>
                                                   <U+271C><U+2722><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2605>

