ABSTRACT
An assembly and system for collection and assessment of physiological data is provided. The
assembly includes a physiological data acquisition module that may be used in combination with a
head harness for the collection, recordation, storage and transmission of quality physiological data.
The assembly integrates easy to use, self-applied electrodes in a user-friendly system resulting in less
data artefacts than commonly seen in conventional methods and techniques for collecting
physiological data. The assembly and system captures high-quality physiological data for display,
storage, processing and analysis.

                                   1/3
              10
                               24
   22
            14              1234                     2869
                -     32-                    40 2038     62
82                     8        85
                                                        60
                       36
            80
                   26                  52
                                          54
                                    58
            62            56
      68
               -62
         68
                                 FIG. 1

   HEAD HARNESS & WIRELESS EEG MONITORING SYSTEM
      [0001] This application claims priority from United States Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 61/255,343 filed on October 27, 2009 incorporated herein in its entirety by this
reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      [0002] The present invention relates generally to devices for the acquisition of
physiological data. More particularly the present invention is directed to a physiological data
acquisition assembly that may be used in combination with a head harness, applied by a user
without assistance and that acquires quality physiological data including but not limited to EEG,
EKG, EMG, and EOG signals.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      [0003] An electroencephalogram (EEG) is the graphic record of brain action potentials.
The EEG supplies important information about the brain function of a patient. Conventional
monitoring and diagnostic equipment is structured in such a way that several electrodes are
mounted on the subject, which tap the brain signals and transmit the signals via cables to
amplifier units. Normally, separate electrodes are used for each measurement parameter and
usually require that numerous electrodes be placed on a patient's head. Proper placement of the
electrodes is important and usually follows the International 10/20 System, which is the widely
accepted method describing the placement of the electrodes on the patient's head. As a result,
EEG data is often gathered in a clinical setting where the electrodes can be properly placed with
technical assistance.
      [0004] Due to the nature of the conventional methods applied in EEG examinations, many
cables are suspended on the patient. The cables are troublesome in that they constrict the patient
and greatly limit the freedom of movement. In addition, the process of properly placing
numerous electrodes is time consuming and often, due to the number of wires and electrodes,
will result in ineffective adhesion and loss of contact with the scalp of the patient.
                                                  I

      [00051 These conventional methods are often a problem in monitoring patients in sleep
centers. The complications associated with the cumbersome nature of the conventional detection
and recording devices coupled with the subject being in a foreign environment greatly hinders
monitoring a patient's sleep stage. The combination of the cables and sleep center environment
will have a bearing on the patient's ability to sleep and subsequent results of the exam. If a
subject has the ability to be monitored comfortably from home without restricting their freedom
of movement, anxiety is reduced therefore producing more accurate results.
      [0006] There is therefore a need for a new and improved physiological data acquisition
system and apparatus that facilitates application of electrodes by the patient without technical
assistance and that collects quality physiological data, including but not limited to EEG, EKG,
EMG, and EOG signals from a single active electrode.
      [0006a]     It is to be clearly understood that mere reference herein to previous or existing
apparatus, products, systems, methods, practices, publications or other information, or to any
associated problems or issues, does not constitute an acknowledgement or admission that any of
those things individually or in any combination formed part of the common general knowledge
of those skilled in the field, or that they are admissible prior art.
                                                 2

                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0007] Embodiments of the present invention provide for a system and assembly for
acquiring physiological data that can be applied by a user without technical assistance and
acquire quality physiological data including but not limited to EEG, EKG, EMG, and EOG
signals. The present invention may be used in conjunction with sleep centers for the
examination, diagnoses and treatment of sleep disorders.
      [0008] In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a physiological data
acquisition assembly for use in combination with a head harness is provided. The physiological
data acquisition assembly comprises a physiological data acquisition module adapted to be
removably housed by the head harness, wherein the head harness includes a base strap adapted
to be adjustably secured around the circumference of a user's head, an upper portion housing the
physiological data acquisition module and a plurality of longitudinally extending straps for
detachably securing the housing for the physiological data acquisition module to the base strap.
The physiological data acquisition assembly also comprises at least one electrode snap
connector assembly for use on an active electrode and at least one electrode snap connector
assembly for use on a reference electrode.
      [0009] According to another embodiment of the present invention, a physiological data
acquisition assembly is provided comprising, at lease a single channel of physiological data
wherein at least one active electrode and at least one reference electrode are in close proximity.
The physiological data acquisition assembly also comprises a singular sensor patch wherein the
at least one active electrode and at least one reference electrode are located on the singular
sensor patch but are not electrically coupled.
                                                 3

        [00101 According to yet another embodiment of the present invention, a system for
 acquiring physiological data is provided comprising a physiological data acquisition module
 coupled to at least one electrode snap connector assembly for use on an active electrode and at
 least one electrode snap connector assembly for use on a reference electrode. The system also
 comprises a head harness for housing the physiological data acquisition module, wherein the
 head harness includes a base strap adapted to be adjustably secured around the circumference of
 a user's head, an upper portion housing the physiological data acquisition module and a plurality
 of longitudinally extending straps for detachably securing the housing for the physiological data
 acquisition module to the base strap. The system also comprises a means for displaying, storing,
 processing and analyzing encrypted data transmitted by the physiological data acquisition
 module.
       [0011] According to yet another embodiment of the present invention, a system for
acquiring physiological data is provided comprising at least a single channel of physiological
data wherein at least one active electrode and at least one reference electrode are in close
proximity. The system also comprises a singular sensor patch wherein the at least one active
electrode and the at least one reference electrode are located on the singular sensor patch but are
not electrically coupled. The system also comprises a means for displaying, storing, processing
and analyzing encrypted data transmitted by the physiological data acquisition module.
      [0012] It is contemplated that any method, system or information described herein can be
implemented with respect to any other method, system or information described herein.
                                                 4

         [00131 Unless otherwise defined, all terms used herein have the same meaning as
commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.
Methods and materials are described herein for use of the present invention; other suitable
methods and materials known in the art can also be used. The materials and methods, and
examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. All publications, patent
applications, patents and other references mentioned herein, are incorporated by reference in
their entirety. In case of conflict, the present specification, including definitions will control.
         [00141 These and other embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and
understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the
accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the following description, while
indicating various embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof, is given
by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many substitutions, modifications, additions and/or
rearrangements may be made within the scope of the invention without departing from the spirit
thereof, and the invention includes all such substitutions, modifications, additions and/or
rearrangements.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
         [0015] The present invention, both as to its organization and manner of operation,
together with further objects and advantages, thereof, may best be understood with reference to
the following description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings in which:
                                                    5

         [00161 FIG. 1 is a drawing of an exploded perspective view of the physiological data
acquisition assembly for use in combination with a head harness.
         [00171 FIG.2 is a drawing of a front perspective view of the physiological data
acquisition assembly for use in combination with a head harness as applied to a patient.
         [0018] FIG. 3 shows a flowchart of the system according to the present invention. The
device contains the components below without limiting the general idea of the invention.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        [0019] The ability to monitor physiological data for the study of brain performance
during the normal course of daily activities including but not limited to sleep, in the past, has
required cumbersome detection and analysis equipment and in many instances has required the
need for technical assistance. The present invention disclosed herein provides a benefit over
existing conventional methods by allowing the collection of data related to a physiological event
from the comfort of the patient's home. The present invention employs a novel physiological
data acquisition assembly and easy to follow system that is user friendly and overcomes the
disadvantages of the conventional monitoring methods.
        [0020] Referring to FIG. 1, an exploded perspective view of the physiological data
acquisition assembly for use in combination with a head harness 10 is depicted. The head
harness 10 may house one or more devices or wires. The head harness is worn over the head and
hair of a patient. The head harness includes a front pad 12 having a first end 14 and second end
16. The front pad 12 is adapted to extend across the patient's forehead. The first end 14 and
                                                  6

second end 16 are adapted to be adjustably secured around the circumference of a user's head
using a fastener preferably a hook 22 and loop 24. In another embodiment, the fastener may be
a hook and loop, Velcro, snap, button, buckle or any other fastening device that allows for
custom fit, adjustment and comfort.
        [00211 The head harness also includes an upper portion 40 including longitudinally
extending straps 18 and 20 for detachably securing the upper portion 40 to the base strap 12, 14,
& 16. The longitudinally extending straps 18 and 20 are detachably secured to the base strap at
14 & 16 using a fastener, preferably a hook 26 & 28 and loop 42, FIG.2. In another
embodiment, the fastener may be a hook and loop, Velcro, snap, button, buckle or any other
fastening device that allows for custom fit, adjustment and comfort.
        [00221 In a preferred embodiment, the head harness may be made of one or more layers
of material to create a hollow core through all parts of the harness. The physiological data
acquisition module 50 is removably received in the hollow core 42 & 44, FIG. 2 of the upper
portion 40. In this preferred embodiment, the upper portion 40 and longitudinally extending
straps 18 & 20 include a plurality of slots 32, 34, 36 & 38 for receiving the electrode snap
connector assemblies 68 & 69 and associated lead wires 56, 58 & 60 coupled to the
physiological data acquisition module 50.
        [0023] The electrode snap connector assemblies 68 represent a combination of a biased
ground electrode and a reference electrode snap connectors and in the preferred embodiment the
electrodes 67 are placed behind the left and right ear of the patient, FIG. 2. The biased ground
                                                  7

 electrode snap connector assembly and the reference electrode snap connector assembly 68 may
be color coded to distinguish the two. In another embodiment of the present invention, only a
reference electrode snap connector assembly is required for the acquisition of electrical
physiological data. The electrode snap connector assembly 69 represents the active electrode
snap connector and in the preferred embodiment the electrode 67 is placed on the forehead of the
patient. The active electrode and reference/biased ground electrodes 67 may be a self-adhesive
conductive electrode, a wet, dry, contact, non-contact or EKG electrode. The electrode snap
connector assemblies also include a noise reducing or cancelling amplifier 62 at the electrode
connection level to reduce any electrical noise that may be picked up by the lead wires 56, 58 &
60. To further improve the performance of the physiological data acquisition module 50, the
module or the electrode snap connector assemblies 68 & 69 are configured to continuously
monitor electrode impedance and may include lights indicative of the current status of the
integrity of the electrode contacts.
         [0024] In another embodiment of the present invention, both active and reference
electrodes 67 are placed in close proximity with respect to each other but are not electrically
connected. In this embodiment, the active and reference electrodes are located on a singular
sensor patch.
         [00251 In a preferred embodiment, the physiological data acquisition module 50 includes
a battery power component that includes a rechargeable small form factor, high capacity battery.
The physiological data acquisition module 50 includes a power supply and recharging circuitry
for receiving power through an electrical power cord 82 and AC unit 80. The electrical power
                                                  8

cord 82 is coupled to the physiological data acquisition module for recharging the small form
factor, high capacity battery through a port 54, which may be but is not limited to USB, DB-25
or the like. The physiological data acquisition module 50 includes a power on and off function
52 for preserving the power supply of the small form factor, high capacity battery when not in
use. The physiological data acquisition module 50 may also include power on and off indicator
lights indicative of the current status of the physiological data acquisition module 50. In another
embodiment, the physiological data acquisition module rechargeable small form factor, high
capacity battery may be recharged through a USB connection to a computer.
         [00261 The physiological data acquisition module 50 is configured to record, transmit and
store encrypted data collected from the electrode snap connector assembly 69 for use on an
active electrode 67 applied to the forehead region of a patient. The electrode snap connector
assemblies 68 for use on a reference and biased ground electrode 67 are placed behind the ears of
the patient. The biased ground electrode 67 functions to stabilize the baseline and improve
immunity from external interferences.
         [0027] In a preferred embodiment, the physiological data acquisition module 50 is
configured to include a wireless transmitter/receiver for transmitting wirelessly the recorded and
stored encrypted data to a remote center or computer for further display, storing, processing and
analysis or for transmitting wirelessly in real time the encrypted data to a remote center or
computer for further display, storing, processing and analysis. In another aspect of the present
invention, the recorded and stored data may be transmitted wirelessly to a device including but
not limited to a cellular telephone, smart-phone, iPad@ and/or computer. The wireless
                                                  9

 transmitter/receivermay also be included on the singular sensor patch to transmit wirelessly to a
 device including but not limited to a cellular telephone, smart-phone, iPad@ and/or computer.
 The recorded and stored data may also be transmitted directly to a computer, cellular telephone,
 smart-phone and/or iPad@ via USB transfer capabilities incorporated at port 54 of the
physiological data acquisition module 50.
         [0028] Referring now to FIG. 2, a front perspective view of the physiological data
 acquisition assembly for use in combination with a head harness as applied to a patient is
 depicted. In a preferred embodiment, the physiological data acquisition module 50 is housed in a
hollow cavity 44 of the upper portion 40 of the head harness. In another embodiment, the
physiological data acquisition module 50 is removably affixed to the head harness by a fastener
that may be a-hook and loop, Velcro, snap, button, buckle or any other fastening device that
allows for custom fit, adjustment and comfort.
         [00291 In yet another embodiment of the head harness there may be openings that allow
access to the interior of the harness as well as allow for connections to be made from the interior
of the harness and exterior components. In another embodiment the design may be independent
of any specific device or wire purpose other than those listed here. The head harness allows any
devices or wires or electronic components to be removed for service, replacement or safety. The
head harness may be washable, cleaned or sterilized. The head harness may be disposable,
independent of the devices or wires housed.
                                                    10

         [00301 Referring now to FIG. 3, a flowchart of the system according to the present
invention is depicted. In the preferred embodiment, a user is supplied with the invention and
allowed to use its application in the home 100. It is to be understood that the nature of the
present invention allows the user to apply the device in any setting and is not limited to home or
clinical use. At 102, due to the ease of application, the user applies at least one electrode
designated the active electrode and at least one electrode designated the reference electrode. In
one embodiment, the active and reference electrode may be applied to the forehead and behind
the ear respectively. In another embodiment, the active electrode is applied to the forehead while
a reference electrode and a biased ground electrode are applied behind the ears of the user. In
yet another embodiment, the active electrode and reference electrode are contained in close
proximity on a singular sensor patch and applied to the head of the user. It is to be understood
that the application of the electrodes may or may not be used in combination with a head harness.
         [0031] Once the electrodes have been placed by the user, physiological electrical data is
collected. At 104, the physiological data is transmitted either wirelessly by a physiological data
acquisition module 50 or is transmitted wirelessly directly from the singular sensor patch to a
peripheral device that may be but is not limited to a computer, cellular telephone, smart-phone
and/or iPad@. The peripheral device is configured to record and store the data 106. Further, the
peripheral device is configured to display, store, process and analyze 108 the transmitted
encrypted data. The means for displaying, storing, processing and analyzing may be but is not
limited to a computer, cellular telephone, smart-phone and/or iPad@ or any other remote display
device.
                                                  11

         (00321 In certain alternative embodiments of the present invention, the assembly and
system are configured to accommodate more than one channel of physiological data. For
example and not by way of limitation, the assembly and system incorporate sensors, i.e., head
position sensor, airflow sensor using acoustics, nasal pneumotachometer, body temperature
sensor and oximeter, alone or in various combinations for collecting data.
         [00331 The assembly and system may also be in communication with a remote control
device. The remote control device may function as a gateway device to other peripheral devices.
In this capacity, the remote control device is configured to record and store encrypted data
transmitted by the assembly and system, monitor the small forn factor, high capacity battery life
and recorded and stored data levels maintained by the physiological data acquisition module.
Further, the remote control device in its capacity as a gateway device may transmit and receive
recorded and stored encrypted data either through a wired or wireless connection with a
peripheral device for display, storage, processing and analysis.
         [00341 Systems and materials are described herein. However, systems and materials
similar or equivalent to those described herein can be also used to obtain variations of the present
invention. The materials, systems, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be
limiting.
         [00351 It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and
variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the
invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended
                                                 12

that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true scope and
spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
      [00361 The previous description of some aspects is provided to enable any person skilled
in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these aspects will be
readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and generic principles defined herein may be applied
to other aspects without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. For, example one or
more elements can be rearranged and/or combined, or additional elements may be added. Thus,
the present invention is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be
accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.
      [0037] In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
      [0038] Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
                                       1s

  We claim:
      1. A physiological data acquisition assembly for use in combination with a head harness, the
  physiological data acquisition assembly comprising:
      a physiological data acquisition module adapted to be removably housed by the head harness,
           wherein the head harness includes a base strap adapted to be adjustably secured around
          the circumference of a user's head, an upper portion housing the physiological data
           acquisition module and a plurality of longitudinally extending straps for detachably
           securing the housing for the physiological data acquisition module to the base strap;
      at least one electrode snap connector assembly for use on an active electrode; and
      at least one electrode snap connector assembly for use on a reference electrode.
      2. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 1, wherein the physiological data
  acquisition module further comprises at least one electrode snap connector assembly for use on a
  biased ground electrode.
      3. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 2, wherein the electrode snap
  connector assemblies include a noise reducing or cancelling amplifier.
     4. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 2 or 3, wherein the active electrode,
reference electrode and biased ground electrode isa self-adhesive conductive wet, dry, contact or
non-contact electrode.
     5. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the physiological
data acquisition module isconfigured to record, transmit and store encrypted data collected from
the active electrode.

     6. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 5, wherein the physiological data
 acquisition module includes at least one port to charge the module, transmit and receive data.
     7. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 6, wherein the physiological data
 acquisition module further comprises a RF transmitter-receiver for transmitting encrypted data to
 a remote center or computer for further display, storing, processing and analysis.
     8. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 7, wherein the recorded and stored
 encrypted data is transmitted wirelessly to a device selected from at least one member of the
 group consisting of a cellular telephone, smart-phone and computer.
     9. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 8, wherein the RF transmitter
 receiver is in wireless communication with a remote control.
     10. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 9, wherein the remote control acts
 as a power source or docking station.
     11.The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 1-10, wherein the physiological data
acquisition module includes additional components selected from at least one member of the group
consisting of a head positioning sensor, nasal pneumotachometer, body temperature sensor and
oximeter.
      12. A physiological data acquisition assembly, the physiological data acquisition assembly
  comprising:
     at least a single channel of physiological data wherein at least one active electrode and at
          least one reference electrode are in close proximity; and
     a singular sensor patch wherein the at least one active electrode and at least one reference
          electrode are located but not electrically coupled.

    13. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 12, wherein the singular sensor
patch includes a RF transmitter-receiver for transmitting encrypted data to a remote center or
computer for further display, storing, processing and analysis:
     14. The physiological data acquisition assembly of claim 13, wherein the wirelessly
transmitted encrypted data is to a device selected from at least one member of the group
consisting of a cellular telephone, smart-phone and computer.
     15. A system for acquiring physiological data, the system comprising:
     a physiological data acquisition module coupled to at least one electrode snap connector
         assembly for use on an active electrode and at least one electrode snap connector
         assembly for use on a reference electrode;
     a head harness for housing the physiological data acquisition module, wherein the head
         harness includes a base strap adapted to be adjustably secured around the circumference
         of a user's head, an upper portion housing the physiological data acquisition module and
         a plurality of longitudinally extending straps for detachably securing the housing for the
         physiological data acquisition module to the base strap; and
     a means for displaying, storing, processing and analyzing encrypted data transmitted by the
         physiological data acquisition module.
     16. The system of claim 15, wherein the encrypted data transmitted by the physiological data
 acquisition module is transmitted by a RF transmitter-receiver to the means for displaying,
 storing, processing and analyzing.
     17. A system for acquiring physiological data, the system comprising:
     a single channel of physiological data wherein at least one active electrode and at least one
         reference electrode are in close proximity;
                                                    1(0

    a singular sensor patch wherein the at least one active electrode and at least one reference
        electrode are located but not electrically coupled; and
    a means for displaying, storing, processing and analyzing encrypted data transmitted by the
        physiological data acquisition module.
    18. The system of claim 17, wherein the singular sensor patch includes a RF transmitter
receiver for transmitting encrypted data to the means for displaying, storing, processing and
analyzing.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
