                                      ABSTRACT
                 Embodiments of a wellhead assembly have a tubular body with a
   removable bottom cap to house a tubing rotator comprising a multi-enveloping
 5 worm gear assembly which provides sufficient torque to rotate tubing strings in deep
   and/or deviated wellbores. The bottom cap is supported on a wellhead having a
   dognut for supporting a production string therefrom in a wellbore. The bottom cap
   rotatably supports a mandrel and multi-enveloping worm wheel thereon, the
   mandrel being connected to the dognut and tubing string for co-rotation therewith.
10 The tubular body supports a multi-enveloping worm for engagement with the worm
   wheel when the tubular body is lowered axially onto the bottom cap. When the
   tubular body and worm are lifted axially from the bottom cap, the worm wheel and
   mandrel are exposed for repair or replacement without need to pull the production
   string from the wellbore. The tubular housing can further house a flow tee and
15 opposing blowout preventer ports and rams therein, forming an integrated wellhead
   assembly.

                                                                                             OCX
                                                                                             LL
CN
C)
      Ce)
             00
             CD
      100
                   CN           cccc
                                                C)  00    CN
                                            CY) Ce) 00
            C)                              CY)           00 C14                CV)
   CD       00  Lr)
LO
                                                                        C14Ce)
                                                                 00
        CY)
                                                                                    - - -----------
                                                                    -----------------
                                      co
                                                               LO
         CN                                                                                  co
                                                                                             LO
                    CD
                                         CN                  co              co
                                                                             CN
                       co    C)                        LO
                             LO
   C)
                          co
                          qT
                                     1/10

          "WELLHEAD ASSEMBLY WITH INTEGRATED TUBING ROTATOR"
                                           PRIORITY
   This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/443,108
 5 filed January 6, 2017, entitled "WELLHEAD ASSEMBLY WITH INTEGRATED
   TUBING ROTATOR," which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                            FIELD
                 Embodiments taught herein relate to apparatus for rotating a tubing
10 string in a wellbore integrated into a wellhead assembly and, more particularly,
   apparatus which at least provides sufficient torque to rotate the tubing string in deep
   and deviated wellbores.
                                       BACKGROUND
15               Wellhead assemblies are utilized in the oil and gas industry to connect
   any number of different apparatus to a wellbore. A tubing hanger or dognut axially
   supports a production string inside production casing in the wellbore. A tubing
   rotator, operatively connected to the tubing hanger, is incorporated into the
   wellhead assembly to rotate the production tubing. Rotation of the tubing avoids
20 localized wear for      minimizing   tubing   failures  arising from   contact during
   reciprocation or rotation of a rod string therein, such as for operating an artificial lift
   pump in the production string.
                                               1

                 It is known to provide integrated wellhead assemblies having upper
   and lower portions, either cast as a single unit, welded together or otherwise
   integrally coupled. The upper portion generally incorporates blow-out preventers for
   sealing a bore through the upper portion. The blow out preventers generally include
 5 one or more sets of rams, including but not limited to blind rams that seal against
   one another and rod rams that seal against an outer surface of a polished rod
   connected to the artificial lift pump, or both. A flow tee may be incorporated into the
   upper portion of the assembly to provide a secondary flow path fluidly connected to
   a bore of the wellhead assembly. The tubing hanger is generally supported in the
10 lower portion of the wellhead assembly. The lower portion may further comprise
   ports which are in fluid communication to an annulus between production casing
   and production tubing, supported by the tubing hanger, in the wellbore. The tubing
   hanger may include sealing elements that isolate the annulus from the bore of the
   upper portion of the wellhead.
15               Conventional tubing rotators are typically separate units which are
   assembled between the blowout preventer (BOP) and the tubing head. Integrated
   tubing rotators are known however generally provide insufficient torque to rotate a
   tubing string in deviated wellbores or in deep wellbores, such as in wellbores
   greater than about 6000ft.        Tubing rotators, in general, have insufficient torque
20 capacity for use in either deep wellbores, whether straight or deviated, such as
   directional and slant wells, or in deviated wellbores in general. Additionally, the
   gearing of tubing rotators is typically a complicated arrangement of a series of worm
                                                2

   gears and a planetary gear box, which provides a number of different locations for
   potential leakage.
                  Repair of conventional tubing rotators typically requires pulling the
   tubing to surface and clamping the tubing thereat to allow the tubing rotator to be
 5 removed for repair or replacement. This is generally a time consuming and costly
   procedure which requires additional equipment, such as a service or drilling rig.
                  Conventional tubing rotators may comprise a load shoulder on a
   mandrel, which is operatively connected to the tubing string, for supporting the load
   thereof when the mandrel is set down on axial roller bearings for rotation of the
10 mandrel and the tubing string, with or without a dognut. In US Patent 5,964,286 to
   Cuppen, the load shoulder is connected at a top of the mandrel or is integral with
   the mandrel extending through the bore of a rotator body. The mandrel is connected
   directly to the tubing string or is connected to a dognut which is connected to the
   tubing string. Where the load shoulder is integral with the mandrel, the rotator body
15 cannot be lifted off the mandrel however, in embodiments where the load shoulder
   is not integral, split rings engage grooves in the mandrel with the load shoulder to
   hang the tubing string with the dognut unseated. The addition of the split rings
   allows the mandrel to lift the dognut and thereafter to be seated onto the rotator. In
   another embodiment taught by Cuppen, the load shoulder is a split ring engaged
20 between a shoulder on the mandrel and the top of a ring gear.
                  There is interest in wellhead assemblies that incorporate sealing
   systems, such as blowout preventers, and tubing rotators capable of providing
   sufficient torque to rotate tubing in deep wellbores, in deviated wellbores and in
                                              3

   deep and deviated wellbores. There is interest in low profile tubing rotators that fit
   within conventional wellhead footprints or flange diameters. In particular there is
   interest in flexible systems that can be incorporated with a variety of different tubing
   heads and which have a more simplified and robust design. Further still, there is
 5 interest in tubing rotators that can be repaired without having to pull the production
   string from the wellbore.
                                          SUMMARY
                   Embodiments of a wellhead assembly taught herein utilize a tubular
10 body having a removable bottom cap to house a tubing rotator comprising a multi
   enveloping worm gear assembly to provide sufficient torque to rotate tubing strings
   in deep and/or deviated wellbores. The bottom cap is supported on a wellhead
   flange for connection thereto and the tubular body supported thereon has a
   chamber sized to accommodate a multi-enveloping worm wheel of the multi
15 enveloping gear assembly. The multi-enveloping worm wheel is rotatably supported
   on the bottom cap.
                   In embodiments taught herein, a multi-enveloping worm is supported
   in the tubular body permitting axial lifting and lowering of the multi-enveloping worm
   with the tubular body to disengage and engage the multi-enveloping worm with the
20 multi-enveloping worm wheel supported by the bottom cap.
                   Further, as the tubular body is removable from the bottom cap, which
   continues to support the mandrel operatively connected to the tubing string
   supported in the wellbore, the tubular body and multi-enveloping worm can be
                                                4

   axially lifted to expose the remaining components of at least the tubing rotator
   without using a rig and without lifting the tubing string from the wellbore.
                   In embodiments, the same tubular body can also accommodate a flow
   tee and opposing blowout preventer ports having rams therein for forming an
 5 integrated wellhead assembly. A height of the integrated assembly is generally
   lower than combinations of conventional tubing rotators, flow tees and blowout
   preventer assemblies.
                   In one broad aspect, a wellhead assembly comprises a tubular body
   having a chamber formed therein. A bottom cap is adapted for connection to a
10 tubing head and supported thereon, the tubing head rotatably supporting a tubing
   string depending therefrom, the tubular body being removably secured to the
   bottom cap. A tubing rotator is located in the chamber comprising a mandrel
   extending axially through the chamber and through the bottom cap for connection to
   the tubing string therebelow, the mandrel being sealed from the chamber; and a
15 multi-enveloping worm gear assembly having a multi-enveloping worm wheel
   driveably connected to the mandrel, both of which are rotatably supported in the
   bottom cap; and a multi-enveloping worm for driving connection to the multi
   enveloping worm wheel, the multi-enveloping worm being supported in the tubular
   body and axially moveable therewith to disengage and engage with the multi
20 enveloping worm wheel when axially lifted from or lowered onto the bottom cap.
                   In another broad aspect, a method for rigless servicing of at least a
   tubing rotator in a wellhead assembly, the tubing rotator operatively connected to a
   tubing string, supported in a wellbore from a wellhead, for rotation thereof,
                                                5

   comprises disconnecting a tubular body from a bottom cap secured to the tubing
   head. The tubular body supporting a multi-enveloping worm of the tubing rotator
   therein is axially lifted from the bottom cap, the worm disengaging from a multi
   enveloping worm wheel rotatably supported by a mandrel extending through the
 5 bottom cap, for exposing at least the multi-enveloping worm wheel of the tubing
   rotator, the bottom cap and mandrel, operatively connected to the tubing string,
   continuing to support the tubing string therefrom. The at least the worm, the wheel
   and/or the mandrel, is serviced or replaced, wherein the tubing string remains in the
   wellbore.
10               In yet another broad aspect, a method for set-up and installation of a
   wellhead assembly on a tubing head for supporting the wellhead assembly thereon,
   the tubing head supporting a dognut therein for connection to a tubing string
   suspended therefrom in a wellbore, comprises connecting the dognut to the tubing
   string and to a lower end of a mandrel extending through a bottom cap. The tubing
15 string and dognut are lowered into the tubing head, the bottom cap landing on the
   tubing head. The bottom cap is secured to the tubing head. A load shoulder is
   threaded onto the mandrel of the tubing rotator, axial roller thrust bearings being
   positioned between the load shoulder and the bottom cap for rotatably supporting
   the mandrel thereon. An adapter ring is connected to the mandrel, the adapter ring
20 being supported above and on the load shoulder. A multi-enveloping worm wheel of
   a multi-enveloping worm gear is positioned about the mandrel for co-rotation
   therewith, the multi-enveloping worm wheel being supported on the adapter ring.
   The dognut is set into a seat in the tubing head. The dognut is then lifted above the
                                              6

   seat to permit co-rotation of the dognut and the tubing string connected in the tubing
   head with the mandrel; and thereafter the load shoulder is rotated about the
   mandrel for moving the mandrel within a limited axial space for fixing the dognut
   above the seat and supporting the load shoulder on the axial roller thrust bearings.
 5 A multi-enveloping worm is supported in a tubular body. The tubular body and multi
   enveloping worm is lowered axially onto the bottom cap, over the mandrel and the
   multi-enveloping worm wheel, the multi-enveloping worm drivingly engaging the
   multi-enveloping worm wheel and the tubular body is secured to the bottom cap.
                 In yet another broad aspect, a wellhead assembly comprises a tubular
10 body having a chamber formed therein. A bottom cap is adapted for connection to a
   tubing head and supported thereon, the tubing head rotatably supporting a tubing
   string depending therefrom, the tubular body being removably secured to the
   bottom cap. A tubing rotator is located in the chamber comprising a mandrel
   extending axially through the chamber and through the bottom cap for connection to
15 the tubing string therebelow, the mandrel being sealed from the chamber. A load
   shoulder is threaded onto the mandrel of the tubing rotator, axial roller thrust
   bearings being positioned between the load shoulder and the bottom cap for
   rotatably supporting the mandrel thereon, wherein the load shoulder is axially
   moveable along the mandrel for adjusting an axial position of the mandrel in the
20 wellhead assembly.
                 Regardless the type of apparatus used to rotate a mandrel in a tubing
   rotator, embodiments of a wellhead assembly having the adjustable load shoulder
   permit axial movement of the mandrel so as to lift the dognut off a seat in a variety
                                              7

   of different sizes and designs of tubing heads for co-rotation with the mandrel. The
   load of the tubing string is transferred to the load shoulder through the threaded
   connection between the mandrel and the load shoulder. The load shoulder engages
   the axial roller thrust bearings therebelow, for supporting axial loading of the
 5 mandrel.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                   Figure 1A is a cross-sectional view of a wellhead assembly according
   to an embodiment, sectioned through a flow tee, a dognut in a tubing head to which
10 an integrated BOP/flowtee body and tubing rotator are connected, is operatively
   engaged to a mandrel in the tubing rotator and is shown lifted from a dognut seat in
   the dognut for co-rotation with the mandrel, a production tubing string connected to
   the mandrel for co-rotation therewith being shown in dotted lines;
                   Figure 1B is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 1A, sectioned
15 through the rams, a drive assembly having been removed for clarity;
                   Figure 1C is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 1B, the tubular
   body which supports the multi-enveloping worm having been lifted axially from the
   bottom cap which supports the worm wheel;
                   Figure 2 is a cross-sectional view of an embodiment of a wellhead
20 assembly according to Fig. 1A, having the bottom cap configured to accommodate
   a 9" tubing head;
                   Figure 3 is a perspective view of a multi-envelope worm gear
   assembly incorporated in the wellhead assembly according to Fig. 1A, comprising a
                                               8

   worm wheel supported for co-rotation with the mandrel and an hourglass-shaped
   multi-enveloping worm engaged with the worm wheel and having an adapter ring
   positioned therebelow, a load shoulder, the BOP/flow tee body and bottom cap
   having been removed for clarity;
 5               Figure 4A is an exploded perspective view of a shear collar-type
   torque limiter incorporated in the wellhead assembly according to Fig. 1A for
   connecting between a pinion shaft connected to the worm and a drive shaft of a
   drive motor;
                 Figure 4B is an assembled cross-sectional view of the shear collar
10 type torque limiter of Fig. 4A;
                 Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view of an embodiment of a rod
   ram suitable for use in the BOP/flow tee body shown in Fig. 1A; and
                 Figures 6Ai to 6Ciii illustrate embodiments of a wellhead assembly
   having rod rams positioned above, below or on either side of the flow tee, more
15 particularly,
                         Fig. 6Ai is a plan view of an embodiment having two sets of
          rams, one above and one below the flow tee;
                         Fig. 6Aii is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 6Ai along
          section line AE;
20                       Fig. 6Aiii is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 6Ai along
          section line AF;
                         Fig. 6Bi is a plan view of an embodiment having two sets of
          rams, both below the flow tee;
                                               9

                         Fig. 6Bii is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 6Bi along
          section line AH;
                         Fig. 6Biii is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 6Bi along
          section line AG;
 5                       Fig. 6Ci is a plan view of an embodiment having two sets of
           rams, both above the flow tee;
                         Fig. 6Cii is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 6Ci along
          section line AH; and
                         Fig. 6Ciii is a cross-sectional view according to Fig. 6Ci along
10        section line AG.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                  Multi-enveloping worm gear assemblies, comprising multi-enveloping
   worm wheels and worms are known, however to date such assemblies have not
15 been widely incorporated into tubing rotators, as to do so would add to the height of
   a standard wellhead assembly. Conventional flanges and bolt patterns limit the size
   therebetween in which the multi-enveloping gear assemblies could be installed and
   thus, to utilize such high-torque gear assemblies the height of the tubing rotator
   would need to be increased, which is not desirable. Further, a shape of a multi
20 enveloping worm, which is generally throated or hour-glass shaped, makes insertion
   into direct engagement with the worm wheel in a standard wellhead assembly,
   where space is limited, difficult.
                                               10

                   Use of a multi-enveloping worm gear assembly in embodiments taught
   herein, creates two or more lines of contact on each gear tooth for increasing the
   amount of available torque for rotation of heavy, long runs of production tubing in
   deep wells, generally greater than about 6000 feet, and for production tubing which
 5 is run into deviated wellbores, such as directional or slant wellbores, which may also
   be deep wells. Use of the multi-enveloping worm gear assembly typically creates
   from two to six lines of contact on each gear tooth.
                   Embodiments of a wellhead assembly taught herein utilize a tubular
   body having a removable lower or bottom flange or cap for housing at least a tubing
10 rotator. The tubing rotator comprises the multi-enveloping worm gear assembly
   which is capable of providing sufficient torque capacity for use rotating tubing
   strings in either deep wellbores, whether straight or deviated such as directional and
   slant wells, or in deviated wellbores for drivingly engaging a multi-enveloping worm
   wheel which is operatively connected to rotate the tubing string, suspended in a
15 tubing head, such as by a dognut.
                   Further still, in embodiments taught herein, use of the separate,
   removable bottom cap permits the tubular body mounted thereon to be capable of
   housing, not only the tubing rotator, but also other wellhead components, such as a
   flow tee and opposing blowout preventer ports and rams therein forming an
20 integrated wellhead assembly. The removable bottom cap also further increases the
   flexibility of the system as the bottom cap can be customized to accommodate
   different size flanges and bolt patterns, according to embodiments taught herein.
                                              11

                 Embodiments taught herein further comprise an axially moveable load
   shoulder which provides the ability to selectively adjust the location of the load
   shoulder, connected to a mandrel, for limited axial movement of the mandrel within
   tubular body to unseat the dognut from an interior bore of the tubing string
 5 suspended therefrom permitting use of embodiments of the wellhead assembly
   taught herein on a variety of conventional tubing head designs.
                 Having reference to Figs. 1A, 1B and 1C, in an embodiment, a
   wellhead assembly 10 comprises a tubular body 12 which is capable of housing a
   blowout preventer (BOP) 14 and a flow tee 16, such as taught in Applicant's issued
10 US Patent 9,016,362 and issued Canadian patents 2,349,988 and 2,716,430, as
   well as the tubing rotator 18, for connection to a removable bottom flange or cap 22
   to form an integrated wellhead assembly 20. The removable bottom cap 22
   supports the tubular body 12, referred to herein as a BOP/flow tee body 12, of the
   integrated wellhead assembly 20 thereon. The removable bottom cap 22 is
15 supported on and connected to a tubing head flange 26 on a tubing head 28, such
   as by a plurality of bolts or studs 24. The bottom cap 22 is removably connected to
   the BOP/flow tee body 12 using bolts 29.
                 A tubular mandrel 30 extends through the housing 12 and is rotatably
   supported by the bottom cap 22. A lower end 31 of the mandrel 30, which extends
20 through the bottom cap 22, is threaded into a conventional dognut 32, which is
   connected to a production tubing string 34. The tubular mandrel 30 has a mandrel
   bore 33 formed therethrough. A worm wheel 36 of a multi-enveloping worm gear
   assembly 38 is operatively connected to the mandrel 30 for rotation therewith,
                                              12

   adjacent a top 40 of the mandrel 30. In embodiments, the worm wheel 36 is
   operatively connected to the mandrel 30 using two or more keys 42. Opposing keys
   42 act to balance the worm wheel 36 for rotation within the BOP/flow tee body 12.
   Further, there is sufficient axial spacing provided to further allow balancing of the
 5 worm wheel 36 and engagement with a multi-enveloping worm 44 (Fig. 1B), which
   is supported in the tubular body 12.
                 Integration of the multi-enveloping worm gear assembly 38 into
   Applicant's BOP/flow tee body 12 takes advantage of a relatively large chamber 46
   formed within the BOP/flow tee body 12. The large chamber 46 accommodates the
10 mandrel 30 and the robust multi-enveloping worm wheel 36, which is generally
   larger than conventional worm wheels used in tubing rotators to date. Teeth on the
   multi-enveloping worm wheel 36 and multi-enveloping worm 44 are not shown
   herein to simplify the drawings however, as is understood with respect to multi
   enveloping worm gear assemblies 38, having more than one tooth engaged
15 between the multi-enveloping worm wheel 36 and the multi-enveloping worm 44
   increases the torque available for rotating the mandrel 30 and dognut 32 to rotate
   the tubing 34 attached thereto. The mandrel bore 33 is sealed from the chamber 46
   as described below.
                 With further reference to Figs. 1A -1C, in embodiments the BOP/flow
20 tee body 12 comprises an upper portion 47 which accommodates the flow tee 16
   and the BOP 14. The BOP/flow tee body 12 further comprises a lower portion 48
   having a diameter, larger than the upper portion, forming the large chamber 46. The
   upper portion 47 has a bore 51 therein which is contiguous with the mandrel bore
                                              13

   33 and a bore 53 of the tubing string 34 for forming a contiguous fluid bore 86
   therethrough.
                  As shown in Fig. 2, the bottom cap 22 on the integrated wellhead
   assembly 20, can accommodate bolts or studs 24 on a variety of tubing heads 28
 5 using a standard bolt pattern. The bottom cap 22 however can be exchanged for a
   bottom cap 22 suitable to accommodate different tubing heads 28. Further, in
   embodiments the bottom cap 22 can be customized to accommodate different sized
   tubing heads 28, such as a 9" tubing head 28 as shown and tubing heads 28 having
   different bolt patterns as required.
10                Further, the removably connected bottom cap 22 allows the BOP/flow
   tee body 12 to be disconnected and axially removed from the bottom cap 22 for
   accessing the components of the tubing rotator 18 therein for servicing and
   replacement, without having to pull the tubing string 34 from the wellbore, as further
   discussed below.
15                As shown in Fig. 3, in embodiments, the multi-enveloping worm 44 is
   a throated or hourglass-shaped worm 44. In embodiments, the BOP/flow tee body
   12 supports the multi-enveloping worm 44 therein to permit the multi-enveloping
   worm 44 to be lifted and lowered axially with the BOP/flow tee body 12 to disengage
   and engage with the worm wheel 36 supported on the mandrel 30.
20                As seen in Figs. 1A, 1B and 3, in embodiments the multi-enveloping
   worm wheel 36 is supported about the mandrel 30, for driving engagement with the
   multi-enveloping worm 44, by an adapter ring 50 located about the mandrel 30
   below the multi-enveloping worm wheel 36. The adapter ring 50 comprises the
                                             14

   opposing keys 42 for connection to the mandrel 30 and co-rotation therewith. In
   embodiments, the multi-enveloping worm wheel 36 and adapter ring 50 are
   clearance fit to the mandrel 30. Thrust bushings 52 adjacent a top 40 and a bottom
   49 of the mandrel 30 support radial loading of the mandrel 30 preventing the multi
 5 enveloping worm 44 from disengaging from the multi-enveloping worm wheel 36.
                  An adjustable load shoulder ring 70 is threadably engaged to the
   mandrel 30 below the adapter ring 50 for limited axial movement of the mandrel 30
   relative to the load shoulder 70. Threads 72 for connecting between the load
   shoulder 70 and the mandrel 30 are generally large square threads, such as locking
10 ACME threads. The load of the tubing string 34, hanging from the dognut 32 and
   mandrel 30, is transferred through the threads 72 to the load shoulder 70. The load
   shoulder 70 engages axial roller thrust bearings 54 therebelow, supported between
   the bottom cap 22 and the load shoulder 70, for supporting axial loading of the
   mandrel 30 and rotation of the mandrel 30 relative to the BOP/flow tee body 12 and
15 the bottom cap 22.
                  Limited axial spacing is provided in the tubular body 12 to allow the
   mandrel 30 to move axially relative to the load shoulder 70. When the mandrel 30,
   connected to the dognut 32 and tubing string 34, is initially lifted within the limited
   axial spacing to unseat the dognut 32 to permit rotation, the load shoulder 70 is
20 rotated about the mandrel threads 72 to move axially therealong the mandrel 30, to
   fix the position of the dognut 32 in the tubing head 28 to accommodate different
   sizes and styles of tubing heads 28, the load shoulder 70 being supported on the
   axial roller thrust bearings 54 therebelow. Axial movement of the mandrel 30 is
                                             15

   further limited by a location of a first, upper primary seal 80, adjacent the top 40 of
   the mandrel 30, for sealing between the mandrel 30 and the BOP/flowtee body 12
   for preventing fluids in the contiguous axial bore 86 from leaking therebetween. The
   axial movement is also further limited by a second set primary seals 82 located
 5 adjacent a top 84 of the dognut 32, for sealing between the dognut 32 and the
   tubing head 28 for preventing fluids from the axial bore 86 to leak thereby and reach
   the axial roller thrust bearings 54. A secondary, backup seal arrangement 88 is
   provided between the bottom cap 22 and the mandrel 30 to act as a backup to the
   primary seals 82 in the dognut 32.
10                 Regardless the apparatus operatively connected to the mandrel 30 for
   rotation of the mandrel 30 and the tubing string 34 connected thereto, the novel
   adjustable load shoulder 70 taught herein can be incorporated onto the mandrel of a
   tubing rotator to increase the flexibility of the tubing rotator to be used with a variety
   of different sizes and designs of well head 28.
15                 In embodiments taught herein, sufficient power is provided to drive the
   multi-enveloping worm 44 and to overcome any increases in friction resulting from
   use of the multi-envelope worm gear assembly 38. A drive system 60, drivingly
   connected to the multi-enveloping worm 44 to rotate the worm wheel 36, mandrel
   30, dognut 32 and tubing string 34 connected thereto, can be any suitable manual,
20 mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic or electric drive system, as is known in the art.
                   By way of example and without intent to limit embodiments disclosed
   herein thereto, embodiments using an electric drive 60 are described herein and are
   shown in Figs. 1A - 6C. In embodiments, the electric drive system 60 is used to
                                                16

   rotate the production tubing 34 in the range from about 1 to about 6 rotations per
   day. The electric drive system 60 comprises an explosion proof electric motor 62,
   generally of a universal voltage and frequency.
                 As is understood, gearing between the motor 62 and the multi
 5 enveloping worm 44, to provide the required torque to rotate the tubing string 34 at
   the designed number of rotations is selected according to the output of the motor
   62. In the embodiment shown by way of example, the motor 62 is coupled to a
   single enclosed gear box 64 for increasing torque and reducing speed from the
   motor 62 for transmission to the production tubing 34 through the mandrel 30 and
10 the dognut 32.
                  In conventional tubing rotators, use of a plurality of gears and a
   planetary gearbox results in a plurality of locations at which leaks may occur. In
   contrast, in embodiments taught herein, the use of a single reduction gear motor 62
   with a high ratio minimizes the number of locations where leakage may occur. By
15 way of example, a suitable ratio to rotate the tubing string 1 revolution per day
   would be about 28,000:1 and to rotate the tubing string 6 revolutions per day would
   be about 4800:1.
                 A further reduction in speed is achieved by coupling a shaft from a
   gearbox 64 to a pinion shaft 66 connected to the multi-enveloping worm 44, using a
20 shear collar-type torque limiter 68, as described in greater detail below.
                 As shown in Figs. 4A and 4B, the shear collar-type torque limiter 68
   comprises a plurality of replaceable shear pins 90 which are selected to shear at a
   predetermined threshold suitable for the size of the production string and the type of
                                              17

   wellbore into which the tubing string 34 is deployed. Thus, overloading or over
   torquing the drive apparatus 60 and the production tubing string 34 operatively
   connected thereto, is minimized or prevented. The number of shear pins 90
   required to prevent over-torquing can be changed in the field to accommodate a
 5 particular wellbore and production string, adding flexibility to the overall system.
                  In embodiments, the shear pins 90 are on a motor side M of the shear
   collar-type torque limiter 68 and connect between a motor-side connector M for
   connection to the driven shaft 67 and a pinion side connector P for connection to
   the pinion shaft 66. If the torque limiter 68 is subjected to over-torque compared to
10 the predetermined threshold, the shear pins 90 shear, disconnecting the motor side
   connector M from the pinion side connector P and the worm 44 attached thereto.
   The motor 62 continues to rotate the driven shaft 67 and the motor side connector
   M, however the pinion-side connector P and the pinion shaft 66 and the worm 44
   connected thereto and supported on a bushing B, cannot rotate. Thus, damage to
15 the tubing string 34 as a result of over-torque is prevented.
                  As shown in Figs. 1A and 1B, in embodiments the torque limiter 68 is
   sandwiched between a first gear reduction, which is the multi-enveloping worm gear
   38, and a second gear reduction which is the gear box 64, to increase the amount
   of torque and to permit the shear pins 90 to be a practical size.
20                Having reference again to Figs. 1A, 1B and 5, the rod BOP/flow tee
   body 12 comprises opposing ports 92 for receiving a pair of rams 94. In
   embodiments, the pair of rams 94 are rod lock rams designed to seal about a
   polished rod (not shown) in the axial bore 86 when actuated, such as taught in
                                               18

   Applicant's issued Canadian patent 2,349,988. The polished rod is connected to a
   rod string depending therefrom for reciprocating or rotating in the production tubing
   34 for driving a pump connected to the distal end thereof.
                   With particular reference to Fig. 5 and as taught in CA 2,349,988, in
 5 embodiments the rod lock rams 94 perform the operation of both a blowout
   preventer seal, and a clamp to secure the polished rod and rod string during
   servicing of the surface equipment. Opposing, metal, radial pistons 96, forced to
   engage the polish rod by bolts 97, are formed having an arcuate recess 98 therein
   with a curvature corresponding to the polished rod. A narrow elastomeric seal 100
10 runs across a vertical flat face 102 of the piston 96, along the arcuate recess 98,
   along a mid height of the piston 104 and circumferentially thereabout. The seal 100
   is compressed within grooves 106 which permit the arcuate recess 98 to engage
   the polish rod with metal-to-metal contact. When actuated radially inwardly using
   the bolts 97, the piston 96 clamps the polished rod against axial and rotational
15 movement while the seal 100 acts to prevent well fluid from coming up from the
   wellbore and escaping during servicing.
                   Having reference to Figs. 6A to 6C, the sets of rams 94 can be
   incorporated into the system in the BOP/flow tee body 12 above, below and on
   either side of the flow tee 16. Rams 94 can be rod rams to seal around the polished
20 rod, or can include blind rams, for sealing the axial bore 86, when the rod string is
   removed therefrom.
                   Having reference again to Figs. 1A, 1B and 2, during set-up and
   installation, the dognut 32 is threaded to a tubing string and to a lower end 31 of the
                                               19

   mandrel 30 extending through the bottom cap 22. The load shoulder 70, adapter
   ring 50 and worm wheel 36 are operatively connected to the mandrel 30, keys 42 on
   the adapter ring engaging keyways on the mandrel 30. The partially assembled
   integrated wellhead assembly 20, dognut 32 and tubing string 34 is lowered axially,
 5 such as using a rig, into the tubing head 28 in the wellbore. The bottom cap 22 is
   landed on the tubing head flange 26 for connection to the tubing head 28. The
   dognut 32 is first set down into a seat in the tubing head 28 and is thereafter lifted
   by the rig to properly locate the components within the tubing head 28 to permit
   rotation of the dognut 32 in the tubing head 28 and to maintain the primary and
10 secondary sealing arrangements 82,88 as described above. The load shoulder 70 is
   rotated about the mandrel threads 72 to fix the position of the mandrel 30 and
   components thereon with the load shoulder 70 engaging the axial roller thrust
   bearings 54 and the dognut 32 lifted above the seat. The adapter ring 50 is
   supported on the load shoulder 70. Markings may be provided, such as on the
15 mandrel 30, to assist the operator in limiting the axial movement of the mandrel 30
   to ensure the sealing arrangements 82,88 are maintained. The BOP/flow tee body
   12 supporting the multi-enveloping worm 44 is lowered axially over the tubing
   rotator 18. The worm 44 moves into engagement with the multi-enveloping worm
   wheel 36 supported on the mandrel 30. The BOP/flow tee body 12 is secured to the
20 bottom cap 22. The pinion shaft 66, connected to the multi-enveloping worm 44, is
   engaged with the drive system 60 using the shear collar-type torque limiter 68,
   which is connected through the gearbox 64 to the motor 62.
                                             20

                  For rigless servicing, the BOP/flow tee body 12, supporting the multi
   enveloping worm 44 therein, is disconnected from the bottom cap 22 and axially
   lifted from the bottom cap 22 to expose the remaining components of the tubing
   rotator 18, such as the multi-enveloping worm wheel 36, mandrel 30, bearings and
 5 bushings, seals and the like. The remaining components can be removed for repair
   or replacement or to rework other components of the integrated wellhead assembly
   20, without removing the tubing string 34, hung from the dognut 32 therebelow, from
   the wellbore. Hence a rig is not required to service embodiments taught herein.
   Wellbore control is typically maintained by threading a conventional back pressure
10 valve into internal threads in the dognut 32 prior to removal of the BOP/flow tee
   body 12 from the bottom cap 22.
                  Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the
   context requires otherwise, the words "comprise" and "include" and variations such
   as "comprising" and "including" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
15 integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
   integers.
                  The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should
   not be taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art
   forms part of the common general knowledge.
20                It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not
   restricted in its use to the particular application described. Neither is the present
   invention restricted in its preferred embodiment with regard to the particular
   elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It will be appreciated that
                                               21

the invention is not limited to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed, but is
capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without
departing from the scope of the invention.
                                         22

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
                 1.      A wellhead assembly comprising:
                 a tubular body having a chamber formed therein;
 5               a bottom cap, adapted for connection to a tubing head and supported
   thereon, the tubing head rotatably supporting a tubing string depending therefrom,
   the tubular body being removably secured to the bottom cap; and
                 a tubing rotator located in the chamber comprising:
                         a mandrel extending axially through the chamber and through
10        the bottom cap for connection to the tubing string therebelow, the mandrel
          being sealed from the chamber; and
                         a multi-enveloping worm gear assembly having
                                  a multi-enveloping worm wheel driveably connected to
                 the mandrel, both of which are rotatably supported in the bottom cap;
15               and
                                  a multi-enveloping worm for driving connection to the
                 multi-enveloping worm wheel, the multi-enveloping worm           being
                 supported in the tubular body and axially moveable therewith to
                 disengage and engage with the multi-enveloping worm wheel when
20               axially lifted from or lowered onto the bottom cap.
                                               23

                2.      The wellhead assembly of claim 1 further comprising axial roller
   thrust bearings acting between the mandrel, extending therethrough, and the
   bottom cap for rotatably supporting axial loads thereon during rotation of the
   mandrel and the multi-enveloping worm wheel thereon.
 5
                3.      The wellhead assembly of claim 1 or 2 further comprising an
   adapter ring located about the mandrel and connected thereto for supporting the
   worm wheel thereon.
10              4.      The wellhead assembly of claim 3 wherein the adapter ring is
   connected to the mandrel by opposing keys.
                5.      The wellhead assembly of claim 2, wherein the tubing string is
   supported by a dognut in the tubing head and the mandrel is connected at a lower
15 end to the dognut for co-rotation of the dognut and tubing string therewith, further
   comprising:
                 an adjustable load ring shoulder, threadably engaged about the
   mandrel, the load ring shoulder being axially moveable along the mandrel for lifting
   the dognut connected thereto from a seat in the tubing head to permit rotation of the
20 dognut and the tubing string, the load shoulder ring engaging the axial roller thrust
   bearings therebelow for accepting loading from the tubing string.
                                            24

                  6.     The wellhead assembly of claim 5 wherein the tubular body
   comprises:
                  an upper body portion having an upper bore therein; and
                  a lower body portion defining the chamber therein, the chamber
 5 having a diameter greater than the upper bore for housing the worm wheel therein,
                  and wherein the mandrel extends from the upper bore to the dognut,
   the mandrel having a bore therethrough contiguous with the upper bore and a bore
   of the tubing string therebelow.
10                7.     The wellhead assembly of claim 6 further comprising
                  one or more upper primary seals adjacent a top of the mandrel,
   sealing between the mandrel and the body; and
                  one or more lower primary seals in the dognut for sealing between the
   dognut and the tubing head.
15
                  8.     The wellhead assembly of claim 7 wherein the axial movement
   of the mandrel and the load ring shoulder is limited for maintaining the sealing of the
   one or more upper and lower primary seals.
20                9.     The wellhead assembly of claim 8 further comprising one or
   more secondary backup seals in the bottom cap for sealing between the mandrel
   and the bottom cap.
                                            25

                 10.    The wellhead assembly of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the
   mandrel further comprises thrust bushings adjacent a top and a bottom of the
   mandrel for supporting radial loading thereon.
 5               11.    The wellhead assembly of claim 6 wherein the wellhead
   assembly is an integrated wellhead assembly, the upper body further comprising:
                 a flow tee fluidly connected to the upper bore; and
                 one or more opposing blowout preventer ports fluidly connected to the
   upper bore for housing opposing rams therein.
10
                 12.    The integrated wellhead assembly of any one of claims 1 to 11
   further comprising a drive located outside the bore and drivingly connected to the
   multi-enveloping worm for driving the multi-enveloping worm wheel for co-rotation of
   the mandrel and the tubing string driveably connected thereto.
15
                 13.    The integrated wellhead assembly of claim 12, wherein the
   drive is connected to the multi-enveloping worm using a shear collar-type torque
   limiter comprising one or more replaceable shear pins for shearing at a
   predetermined threshold.
20
                 14. The integrated wellhead assembly of claim 13 wherein the
   predetermined threshold is determined by a size of the tubing string, a depth of the
   wellbore, a deviation of the wellbore and combinations thereof.
                                             26

                   15.      The integrated wellhead assembly of claim 12 wherein the drive
   comprises a single gear reduction motor having a gear ratio to rotate the tubing
   string from about 1 to about 6 revolutions per day.
 5                 16.      A method for rigless servicing of at least a tubing rotator in a
   wellhead assembly, the tubing rotator operatively connected to a tubing string,
   supported in a wellbore from a wellhead, for rotation thereof, comprising:
                   disconnecting a tubular body from a bottom cap secured to the tubing
   head;
10                 axially lifting the tubular body supporting a multi-enveloping worm of
   the tubing rotator therein, from the bottom cap, the worm disengaging from a multi
   enveloping worm wheel rotatably supported by a mandrel extending through the
   bottom cap, for exposing at least the multi-enveloping worm wheel of the tubing
   rotator, the bottom cap and mandrel, operatively connected to the tubing string,
15 continuing to support the tubing string therefrom; and
                   servicing or replacing at least the worm, the wheel and/or the mandrel,
   wherein the tubing string remains in the wellbore.
                   17.      The method of rigless servicing of claim 16 further comprising,
20 prior to axially lifting the tubular body from the bottom cap:
                   connecting a back pressure valve into a dognut, to which the mandrel
   is connected for supporting the tubing string therefrom, for controlling pressure in
   the wellbore during the servicing.
                                                 27

                  18.    The method of rigless servicing of claim 17 further comprising,
   after the servicing or replacing:
                  axially lowering the tubular body and multi-enveloping worm onto the
   bottom cap, the multi-enveloping worm re-engaging with the worm wheel; and
 5                securing the tubular body to the bottom cap; and
                  removing the back pressure valve from the dognut.
                  19.    A method for set-up and installation of a wellhead assembly on
   a tubing head for supporting the wellhead assembly thereon, the tubing head
10 supporting a dognut therein for connection to a tubing string suspended therefrom in
   a wellbore, comprising:
                  connecting the dognut to the tubing string and to a lower end of a
   mandrel extending through a bottom cap;
                  lowering the tubing string and dognut into the tubing head, the bottom
15 cap landing on the tubing head;
                  securing the bottom cap to the tubing head;
                  threading a load shoulder onto the mandrel of the tubing rotator, axial
   roller thrust bearings being positioned between the load shoulder and the bottom
   cap for rotatably supporting the mandrel thereon;
20                connecting an adapter ring to the mandrel, the adapter ring being
   supported above and on the load shoulder;
                                              28

                  positioning a multi-enveloping worm wheel of a multi-enveloping worm
   gear about the mandrel for co-rotation therewith, the multi-enveloping worm wheel
   being supported on the adapter ring;
                  setting the dognut into a seat in the tubing head;
 5                lifting the dognut above the seat to permit co-rotation of the dognut
   and the tubing string connected in the tubing head with the mandrel; and thereafter
                  rotating the load shoulder about the mandrel for moving the mandrel
   within a limited axial space for fixing the dognut above the seat and supporting the
   load shoulder on the axial roller thrust bearings;
10                supporting a multi-enveloping worm in a tubular body;
                  axially lowering the tubular body and multi-enveloping worm onto the
   bottom cap, over the mandrel and the multi-enveloping worm wheel, the multi
   enveloping worm drivingly engaging the multi-enveloping worm wheel; and
                  securing the tubular body to the bottom cap.
15
                  20.      The method of claim 19 further comprising:
                  operatively connecting the multi-enveloping worm to a drive system for
   rotation of the multi-enveloping worm to cause the multi-enveloping worm wheel,
   mandrel and dognut to co-rotate for rotating the tubing string attached thereto in the
20 wellbore.
                                              29

                21.     The method of claim 19 or 20, further comprising:
                aligning markings on the mandrel with the load shoulder during
  rotation thereof for ensuring sealing of one or more seals between the mandrel and
  the body and the dognut.
5
                22.     The method of claim 20 further comprising connecting the
  multi-enveloping worm to the drive system using a shearable connection for
  shearing at a predetermined threshold torque.
                                            30

<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
              <U+271E>
                                  <U+271F>
                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                          <U+273C>
                                                                              <U+2739>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>           <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+273A>
                  <U+2736>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                  <U+273A>
                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                                            <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                           <U+273C>
                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                      <U+2739>
                              <U+2706>
                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                          1/10

<removed-date>
                                           <U+273A><U+2736>
                             <U+273E><U+2706>
                                          <U+2736><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+273E><U+271E>                                     <U+273E><U+271E>
                                                                    <U+271E><U+273C>        <U+2736><U+271E>
                                                      <U+273A><U+2706>
              <U+2736><U+2706>                                          <U+271E><U+271E>
                                                                         <U+2738><U+2720>
                                                                    <U+271E><U+2720>
               <U+273A><U+271D>
                                     <U+2720><U+271F>               <U+2738><U+271F>
               <U+273C><U+2706>
                                                               <U+2736><U+2720>
                    <U+273C><U+271D>
                                                     <U+273A><U+2706>
                   <U+2738><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2706><U+2706>
                        <U+2738><U+2738>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                <U+2706><U+2720>
                              <U+2738><U+2706>
                                                     <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E>
                                   2/10

<removed-date>
                                            <U+2702><U+273D>
                            <U+273E>
                                           <U+2736><U+273D>
              <U+273E><U+2704>                                     <U+273E><U+2704>
                                                                    <U+2736><U+2704>   <U+2704><U+273C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2736>                                           <U+2704><U+2704>
                                                                         <U+2704><U+2702>
                  <U+273A><U+2701>
                  <U+273C>
                                                               <U+2736><U+2702>
                       <U+273C><U+2701>
                                                     <U+273A>
                   <U+2738><U+2701>
                                                 <U+2702>
                                <U+2738>
                                                          <U+274B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F>
                                    3/10

<removed-date>
                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+273B>
                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                   <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                   <U+273D>
                                  <U+273B>
                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+273D>
              <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2706>
                                                              <U+2739>
                              <U+271D>
                              <U+2739>
                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                      <U+2737>
                                          <U+260E>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2736>
                                                                  4/10

                                               <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
       <U+2738>   <U+260E>
                                       <U+2739>   <U+2739>
                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                      <U+273B>
5/10
                               <U+2738>
                                   <U+273B>
                           <U+260E>
                       <U+273A>
               <U+2738>   <U+260E>
                                                      <U+274B>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>

<removed-date>                                                  <U+260E>
                                                             <U+2704>
              <U+271E>
                                                             <U+2702>
              <U+273B>
                                                             <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                             <U+274B>
                      <U+2747>
                  <U+2772>
                                  P
                                                                     <U+2706>
                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                 <U+274B>
                              <U+25BC>
                                                         P
                                                 <U+2747>
                                             <U+2772>
                          <U+271D>
                                                     <U+25BC>
                          <U+273E>
                                         <U+271D>
                                         <U+273E>
                                  6/10

<removed-date>
                                         <U+271F>
                                             <U+271E>
                                             <U+2736>
                                                     <U+2720>
                                 <U+271E>
                                                         <U+273E>
                                                             <U+2704>
                                 <U+271E>
                                     <U+271D>
                      <U+271D>
                                 <U+2736>
                                     <U+271E>
                                                             <U+2702>
                      <U+273E>
                                     <U+2736>
                                                             <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                             <U+274B>
                  <U+2706>
                  <U+273E>
                                                 <U+2706>
                                                 <U+271E>
                                                 <U+2736>
              <U+260E>
              <U+273E>
                          7/10

<removed-date>
                              <U+2720>
                              <U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                         <U+2746>
                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                         <U+2746>
                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                <U+2736>
                                                                         <U+271D>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                                         <U+2706>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                              <U+273E>
                                                      <U+273E>
                      <U+2746>
                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                         <U+2704>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+274B>
                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+274B>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+2706>
                                                                     <U+260E>
                                      <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2704>
                                      <U+2746>
              <U+2746>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+274B>
                                                  <U+271F>
                  <U+2746>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                 <U+2746>
                                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                                 <U+2746>
                          <U+2720>
                          <U+2737>
                                                              8/10

<removed-date>                       <U+271F>
                                  <U+2736>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+2746>
                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+2746>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+2706>
                                              <U+271E>       <U+271E>
                                              <U+273E>       <U+273E>
                                                                     <U+260E>
                          <U+2746>
                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+274B>
                              <U+271D>
                              <U+2706>
                              <U+260E>
                              <U+2704>
                              <U+2702>
                              <U+274B>
                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                 <U+260E>
                                          <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                                                                 <U+2704>
                                          <U+2746>
              <U+2746>
                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+274B>
                                      <U+271F>
                                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2746>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                             <U+2746>
                                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                             <U+2746>
                  <U+2720>
                  <U+2737>
                                                          9/10

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+2706>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                      <U+271E>
                                              <U+273E>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                      <U+260E>
                          <U+2746>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+274B>
                              <U+271D>
                              <U+2706>
                              <U+260E>
                              <U+2704>
                              <U+2702>
                              <U+274B>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                  <U+260E>
              <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2704>
              <U+2746>
                                          <U+2746>                       <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                  <U+271F>
                      <U+2746>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+273E>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                  <U+2720>
                  <U+2737>
                                                          10/10

