                                                46
ABSTRACT
A unit configured for implantation in a subject's body may include a carrier, an implantable
circuit associated with the carrier, an antenna arranged on the carrier and configured to
wirelessly receive energy from a location external to the subject's body and to provide at least
a portion of the energy to the implantable circuit, and at least one component associated with
the carrier for receiving energy from the implantable circuit. Wherein the implantable circuit
and the antenna have an internal resonant frequency mismatched from an external resonant
frequency of an external circuit, to account for resonance frequency variation as a result of
implantation in the subject's body.

         2/12
     /10
/20/
         Fi.

                                                     1
  INTERNAL RESONANCE MATCHING BETWEEN AN IMPLANTED DEVICE AND
                                      AN EXTERNAL DEVICE
CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      The present application claims the benefit of a United States Provisional Patent
Application No. 81/678,327, filed on July 28, 2012, and is a divisional application of Australian
Patent Application No. 2013294699, filed on 26 July 2013, the disclosures of which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]      Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to devices and methods for
modulating a nerve. More particularly, embodiments of the present disclosure relate to devices
and methods for transferring energy to an implant unit.
BACKGROUND
[0003]      Neural modulation presents the opportunity to treat many physiological conditions
and disorders by interacting with the body's own natural neural processes. Neural modulation
includes inhibition (e.g., blockage), stimulation, modification, regulation, or therapeutic
alteration of activity, electrical or chemical, in the central, peripheral, or autonomic nervous
system. By modulating the activity of the nervous system, for example through the stimulation of
nerves or the blockage of nerve signals, several different goals may be achieved. Motor neurons
may be stimulated at appropriate times to cause muscle contractions. Sensory neurons may be
blocked, for instance to relieve pain, or stimulated, for instance to provide a signal to a subject In
other examples, modulation of the autonomic nervous system may be used to adjust various
involuntary physiological parameters, such as heart rate and blood pressure. Neural modulation
may provide the opportunity to treat several diseases or physiological conditions, a few examples
of which are described in detail below.
[0004]      Among the conditions to which neural modulation may be applied is obstructive
sleep apnea (OSA), OSA is a respiratory disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of partial
or complete obstruction of the upper airway during sleep. During the sleep of a person without
OSA, the pharyngeal muscles relax during sleep and gradually collapse, narrowing the airway.

                                                   2
The airway narrowing limits the effectiveness of the sleeper's breathing, causing a rise in C02
levels in the blood. The increase in C02 results in the pharyngeal muscles contracting to open
the airway to restore proper breathing. The largest of the pharyngeal muscles responsible for
upper airway dilation is the genioglossus muscle, which is one of several different muscles in the
tongue. The genioglossus muscle is responsible for forward tongue movement and the stiffening
of the anterior pharyngeal wall. In patients with OSA, the neuromuscular activity of the
genioglossus muscle is decreased compared to normal individuals, accounting for insufficient
response and contraction to open the airway as compared to a normal individual. This lack of
response contributes to a partial or total airway obstruction, which significantly limits the
effectiveness of the sleepers breathing. In OSA patients, there are often several airway
obstruction events during the night. Because of the obstruction, there is a gradual decrease of
oxygen levels in the blood (hypoxemia). Hypoxemia leads to night time arousals, which may be
registered by EEG, showing that the brain awakes from any stage of sleep to a short arousal.
During the arousal, there is a conscious breath or gasp, which resolves the airway obstruction.
An increase in sympathetic tone activity rate through the release of hormones such as
epinephrine and noradrenaline also often occurs as a response to hypoxemia. As a result of the
increase in sympathetic tone, the heart enlarges in an attempt to pump more blood and increase
the blood pressure and heart rate, further arousing the patient. After the resolution of the apnea
event, as the patient returns to sleep, the airway collapses again, leading to further arousals.
[0005]       These repeated arousals, combined with repeated hypoxemia, leaves the patient sleep
deprived, which leads to daytime somnolence and worsens cognitive function. This cycle can
repeat itself up to hundreds of times per night in severe patients. Thus, the repeated fluctuations
in and sympathetic tone and episodes of elevated blood pressure during the night evolve to high
blood pressure through the entire day. Subsequently, high blood pressure and increased heart rate
may cause other diseases,
[0006]       Efforts for treating OSA include Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP)
treatment, which requires the patient to wear a mask through which air is blown into the nostrils
to keep the airway open. Other treatment options include the implantation of rigid inserts in the
soft palate to provide structural support, tracheotomies, or tissue ablation.
[0007]       Another condition to which neural modulation may be applied is the occurrence of
migraine headaches. Pain sensation in the head is transmitted to the brain via the occipital nerve,
specifically the greater occipital nerve, and the trigeminal nerve. When a subject experiences

                                                    3
head pain, such as during a migraine headache, the inhibition of these nerves may serve to
decrease or eliminate the sensation of pain.
[0008]       Neural modulation may also be applied to patients with hypertension. Blood pressure
in the body is controlled via multiple feedback mechanisms. For example, baroreceptors in the
carotid body in the carotid artery are sensitive to blood pressure changes within the carotid
artery. The baroreceptors generate signals that are conducted to the brain via the
glossopharyngeal nerve when blood pressure rises, signaling the brain to activate the body's
regulation system to lower blood pressure, e.g., through changes to heart rate, and
vasodilation/vasoconstriction. Conversely, parasympathetic nerve fibers on and around the renal
arteries generate signals that are carried to the kidneys to initiate actions, such as salt retention
and the release of angiotensin, which raise blood pressure. Modulating these nerves may provide
the ability to exert some external control over blood pressure.
[0009]        The foregoing are just a few examples of conditions to which neuromodulation may
be of benefit. The embodiments of described hereafter are not necessarily limited to treating only
the above-described conditions.
[00010]      Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
claims.
SUMMARY
[00011]       Some embodiments of the disclosure may include a unit configured for implantation
in a subject's body. The unit may comprise: a carrier, an implantable circuit associated with the
carrier, an antenna arranged on the carrier and configured to wirelessly receive energy from a
location external to the subject's body and to provide at least a portion of the energy to the
implantable circuit, and at least one component associated with the carrier for receiving energy
from the implantable circuit. Wherein the implantable circuit and the antenna have an internal
resonant frequency mismatched from an external resonant frequency of an external circuit, to
account for resonance frequency variation as a result of implantation in the subject's body.

                                                    4
[00012]      In some other embodiments, a unit configured for implantation in a subject's body
may comprise: a carrier, an implantable circuit associated with the carrier and having an
adjustable capacitance, an antenna arranged on the carrier and configured to wirelessly receive
energy from a location external to the subject's body and to transfer at least a portion of the
received energy to the implantable circuit, and at least one component associated with the carrier
and configured to receive at least some of the energy transferred to the implantable circuit. An
internal resonant frequency of the implantable circuit may be selectively set by varying the
adjustable capacitance of the implantable circuit prior to implantation of the unit in the subject's
body, to cause a resonant frequency offset between the internal resonant frequency of the
implantable circuit and an external resonant frequency of an external circuit configured to be
located external to the body of the subject.
[00013]      A method for manufacturing an implant unit to be implanted in the body of a subject
may include determining a desired initial resonant frequency for an antenna and implantable
circuit associated with the implant unit based on an expected resonance variation of the internal
resonant frequency as a result of implantation of the implant unit in the body of the subject and
based on an external resonant frequency of an external circuit configured to transfer energy to
the implantable circuit from a location outside of the subject's body. The method may also
include adjusting at least one capacitance associated with the implantable circuit to selectively
set the internal resonant frequency of the antenna and the implantable circuit to the desired initial
resonant frequency.
[00014]      Additional features of the disclosure will be set forth in part in the description that
follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of the
disclosed embodiments.
[00015]      It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only, and are not restrictive of the disclosed
principles, as claimed.
[00016]      Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises"
or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.

                                                    5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00017]      The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this
specification, illustrate several embodiments of the disclosure and, together with the description,
serve to explain the principles of the embodiments disclosed herein.
[00018]      Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic illustration of an implanted unit and external unit, according
to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.
[00019]      Fig. 2 is a partially cross-sectioned side view of a patient with an implant unit and
external unit, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.
[00020]      Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic block chart illustrating a system including an implant unit
and an external unit, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.
[00021]      Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic top view of an implant unit, according to an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure,
[00022]      Fig, 5 is a diagrammatic top view of an alternate embodiment of an implant unit.
[00023]      Fig. 6 is circuit diagram of an implant unit and an external unit, according to an
exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.
[00024]      Fig. 7 is a graph illustrating non-linear harmonics, according to an exemplary
disclosed embodiment.
[00025]      Fig. 8 is a graph of quantities that may be used in determining energy delivery as a
function coupling, according to an exemplary disclosed embodiment.
[00026]      Fig. 9 is a graph of quantities that may be used in determining energy delivery as a
function coupling, according to another exemplary disclosed embodiment.
[00027]      Fig. 1OA is a diagrammatic side view of an external unit according to an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure.
[00028]      Fig. 1OB is a diagrammatic top view of the external unit according to the exemplary
embodiment of Fig. 10A.
[00029]      Fig. I Iis circuit diagram depicting a self-resonant transmitter employing a modified
class D amplifier.
[00030]      Fig. 12 is circuit diagram depicting a pulsed mode self-resonant transmitter.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00031]      Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present
disclosure, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible,

                                                  6
the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like
parts.
[00032]      Some embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a device (also referred to as an
external unit) having a primary antenna wirelessly powering an implantable device (also referred
to as an implant unit) having a secondary antenna. When the two antennas are in resonant
frequency match, the efficiency of energy transfer between the external unit and the implant unit
may be higher than circumstances in which a resonant frequency associated with the primary
antenna of the external unit does not match a resonant frequency associated with the secondary
antenna of the implant unit. In some cases, however, the resonant frequency associated with the
secondary antenna on the implant unit may change over time for a variety of reasons, including,
for example, as a result of effects associated with implantation in the subject's body. The present
disclosure describes embodiments configured to change or reduce a frequency mismatch
between a resonant frequency associated with the secondary antenna of the implant unit and a
resonant frequency associated with the primary antenna of the external unit.
[00033]      The implantable device may be employed, for example, to modulate at least one
nerve in the subject's body. Nerve modulation, or neural modulation, includes inhibition (e.g.,
blockage), stimulation, modification, regulation, or therapeutic alteration of activity, electrical or
chemical, in the central, peripheral, or autonomic nervous system. Nerve modulation may take
the form of nerve stimulation, which may include providing energy to the nerve to create a
voltage change sufficient for the nerve to activate, or propagate an electrical signal of its own.
Nerve modulation may also take the form of nerve inhibition, which may include providing
energy to the nerve sufficient to prevent the nerve from propagating electrical signals. Nerve
inhibition may be performed through the constant application of energy, and may also be
performed through the application of enough energy to inhibit the function of the nerve for some
time after the application. Other forms of neural modulation may modify the function of a nerve,
causing a heightened or lessened degree of sensitivity. As referred to herein, modulation of a
nerve may include modulation of an entire nerve and/or modulation of a portion of a nerve. For
example, modulation of a motor neuron may be performed to affect only those portions of the
neuron that are distal of the location to which energy is applied.
[00034]      In patients with OSA, for example, a primary target response of nerve stimulation
may include contraction of a tongue muscle (e.g., including a genioglossus muscle) in order to
move the tongue to a position that does not block the patient's airway. In the treatment of

                                                     7
migraine headaches, nerve inhibition may be used to reduce or eliminate the sensation of pain. In
the treatment of hypertension, neural modulation may be used to increase, decrease, eliminate or
otherwise modify nerve signals generated by the body to regulate blood pressure.
[00035]      While embodiments of the present disclosure may be disclosed for use in patients
with specific conditions, the embodiments may be used in conjunction with any patient/portion
of a body where nerve modulation may be desired. That is, in addition to use in patients with
OSA, migraine headaches, or hypertension, embodiments of the present disclosure may be used
in many other areas, including, but not limited to: deep brain stimulation (e.g., treatment of
epilepsy, Parkinson's, and depression); cardiac pace-making, stomach muscle stimulation (e.g.,
treatment of obesity), back pain, incontinence, menstrual pain, and/or any other condition that
may be affected by neural modulation.
[00036]      Fig. 1 illustrates an implant unit and external unit, according to an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure. An implant unit 110, may be configured for implantation
in a subject (e.g., a patient), in a location that permits it to modulate a nerve 115. Implant unit
110 may be located in a subject such that intervening tissue 1 11 exists between implant unit
110 and nerve 115. Intervening tissue may include muscle tissue, connective tissue, organ tissue,
or any other type of biological tissue. Thus, location of implant unit 110 does not require contact
with nerve 1 15 for effective neuromodulation. Implant unit 110 may also be located directly
adjacent to nerve 115, such that no intervening tissue 111 exists. Sn further embodiments, the
implant unit may be placed in conjunction with any nerve that one may desire to modulate. For
example, modulation of the occipital nerve, the greater occipital nerve, and/or the trigeminal
nerve may be useful for treating pain sensation in the head, such as that from migraines.
Modulation of parasympathetic nerve fibers on and around the renal arteries (i.e., the renal
nerves), the vagus nerve, and /or the glossopharyngeal nerve may be useful for treating
hypertension. Additionally, any nerve of the peripheral nervous system (both spinal and cranial),
including motor neurons, sensory neurons, sympathetic neurons and parasympathetic neurons,
may be modulated to achieve a desired effect.
[00037]      In further embodiments, the implant unit may be placed in conjunction with any
nerve that one may desire to modulate. For example, modulation of the occipital nerve, the
greater occipital nerve, and/or the trigeminal nerve may be useful for treating pain sensation in
the head, such as that from migraines. Modulation of parasympathetic nerve fibers on and around
the renal arteries (i.e., the renal nerves), the vagus nerve, and /or the glossopharyngeal nerve may

                                                    8
be useful for treating hypertension. Additionally, any nerve of the peripheral nervous system
(both spinal and cranial), including motor neurons, sensory neurons, sympathetic neurons and
parasympathetic neurons, may be modulated to achieve a desired effect.
[00038]       Fig. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a neuromodulation system for
delivering energy in a patient 100 with OSA. The system may include an external unit 120 that
may be configured for location external to the patient. As illustrated in Fig. 2, external unit 120
may be configured to be affixed to patient 100. Fig. 2 illustrates that in patient 100 with OSA,
external unit 120 may be configured for placement underneath the patient's chin and/or on the
front of patient's neck. The suitability of placement locations may be determined by
communication between external unit 120 and implant unit 110, discussed in greater detail
below. In alternate embodiments, for the treatment of conditions other than OSA, the external
unit may be configured to be affixed anywhere suitable on a patient. Such as: on the back of a
patient's neck for communication with a migraine treatment implant unit, on the outer portion of
a patient's abdomen for communication with a stomach modulating implant unit, on a patient's
back for communication with a renal artery modulating implant unit, and/or on any other suitable
external location on a patient's skin, depending on the requirements of a particular application.
[00039]       In some embodiments external unit 120 may be configured for location external to a
patient, either directly contacting, or close to the skin 112 of the patient. Accordingly, at least
one side of the housing may include an adhesive material. The adhesive material may include a
biocompatible material and may allow for a patient to adhere the external unit to the desired
location and remove the external unit upon completion of use. The adhesive may be configured
for single or multiple uses of the external unit. Suitable adhesive materials may include, but are
not limited to biocompatible glues, starches, elastomers, thermoplastics, and emulsions.
[00040]       Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary device (e.g., external unit
120) and exemplary implantable unit (e.g., implant unit 1 10). In one embodiment, implant unit
110 may comprise a carrier (e.g., flexible carrier 161 illustrated in Fig. 4), an implantable circuit
(e.g., circuit 180 illustrated in Fig. 6), an antenna (e.g., secondary antenna 152), and at least one
component for receiving energy from the implantable circuit (e.g., implant electrodes 158a,
158b). Prior to implantation in the subject's body, the implantable circuit and the secondary
antenna provide a certain resonant frequency. When implanted in the body of the subject,
however, this resonant frequency may change due, for example, to various effects associated
with locating the implant unit into the body of the subject. In some embodiments, the changes to

                                                    9
the resonant frequency associated with the implant unit after implantation may be known,
predictable, or predicted, etc. To account for this change in resonant frequency (or resonant
frequency drift), the implant unit may be manufactured to have a resonant frequency associated
with the antenna and implantable circuit that is mismatched from a resonant frequency of an
external circuit (e.g., circuit 170) configured to communicate with the implantable circuit of the
implant unit. This resonant frequency mismatch may be eliminated after the implant unit is
placed in the body of the subject and changes in the resonant frequency associated with the
implant unit occur.
[00041]       The implant unit may be formed from any materials suitable for implantation into
the body of a patient. In some embodiments, the implant unit may include a carrier formed of a
flexible, biocompatible material to provide a flexible carrier 161. In some embodiments, the
flexible carrier may function as a substrate for the implant unit upon which various components
of the implant unit are formed, placed, disposed, etc. Materials that may be used in forming the
flexible carrier include, for example, silicone, polyimides, phenyltrimethoxysilane (PTMS),
polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA), Parylene C, polyimide, liquid polyimide, laminated
polyimide, black epoxy, polyether ether ketone (PEEK), Liquid Crystal Polymer (LCP), Kapton,
etc. Implant unit 110 may further include circuitry including conductive materials, such as gold,
platinum, titanium, or any other biocompatible conductive material or combination of materials.
Implant unit 110 and flexible carrier 181 may also be fabricated with a thickness suitable for
implantation under a patient's skin. Implant 110 may have thickness of less than about 4 mm or
less than about 2 mm.
[00042]       The implant unit and the external unit each may include a circuit, including at least
one wire, electrical component, resistor, inductor, and/or capacitor, etc.) electrically connected
either directly or indirectly to their respective antennas. In some embodiments, the circuit for the
implant unit may include, for example, capacitor 151 , diode 156, and a harmonics modifier
circuit 154, which may be used to non-linearly alter the harmonics generated in the circuitry. The
circuit of the implantable unit may include or connect with other electrical components
including, for example, electrodes, switches, transducers, sensors, detectors, antennas, diodes,
etc. One example of a circuit that may be included on implant unit 110 is circuit 180 depicted in
Fig. 6.
[00043]       In some embodiments, the circuit may include at least one capacitor (e.g., two
capacitors, eight capacitors) configured to be selectively included and selectively excluded from

                                                   10
the electrical circuit. For example, switches may be included in the circuit and associated with
the capacitors in order to selectively include or exclude any of a plurality of capacitors from the
electrical circuit The term "capacitor" refers to any device configured for storing an electric
charge. In some cases, the circuits of the external unit and implant unit may comprise a plurality
of capacitors (e.g., four capacitors, six capacitors, or fen capacitors) selectable by a processor,
for example. In other cases the circuits of external unit 110 and implant unit 120 may include at
least one trimming capacitor having an adjustable capacitance value, or at least one frequency
dependent capacitor. In such embodiments, the trimming capacitor may be used to provide a
plurality of different capacitance values. The plurality of capacitance values may be discrete.
Alternatively or additionally, the capacitance may be variable over a continuous range and may
be selected at any value within the range,
[00044]      As shown in Fig. 3, both external unit 120 and implant unit 110 may include an
antenna. The antenna of the external unit (e.g., primary antenna 150) and the antenna of the
implant unit (e.g., secondary antenna 152) may include any conductive structure that may be
configured to send, transmit, emit, and/or receive electromagnetic signals. The antenna may have
any suitable size, shape, and/or configuration. In some embodiments, the number of antennas,
their size, shape, and/or configuration may be determined by the size of the patient, the
placement location of the implant unit, the size and/or shape of the implant unit, the amount of
energy required to modulate a nerve, a location of a nerve to be modulated, the type of receiving
electronics present on the implant unit, etc. Exemplary antennas may include, but are not limited
to, a long-wire antenna, a patch antenna, a helical antenna, a coil antenna, a slow wave antenna, a
monopole antenna, a dipole antenna, spiral, oval, rectangular, spiderweb, etc.
[00045]      In some embodiments the implantable unit (e.g., implant unit 110) may include an
antenna (e.g., secondary antenna 152) mounted onto or integrated with flexible carrier 161. The
antenna may be arranged on the carrier and configured to wirelessly receive energy from a
location external to the subject's body and to provide at least a portion of the energy to the
implantable circuit. For example, secondary antenna 152 may include a coil antenna having a
circular shape (see also Fig. 4 and Fig. 5) or oval shape. Such a coil antenna may include any
suitable arrangement of conductive coils (e.g., diameter, number of coils, layout of coils, etc.). A
coil antenna suitable for use as secondary antenna 152 may have a diameter of between about 5
mm and 30 mm, and may be circular or oval shaped. A coil antenna suitable for use as secondary
antenna 152 may have any number of windings, e.g., 4, 15, 20, 30, or 50. A coil antenna suitable
for use as secondary antenna 152 may have a wire diameter between about 0.001 mm and 1 mm.

                                                   11
These antenna parameters are exemplary only, and may be adjusted above or below the ranges
given to achieve suitable results.
[00046]      The implantable unit (e.g., implant unit 1 10) may additionally include at least one
component associated with the carrier for receiving energy from the implantable circuit. In some
embodiments the at least one component may include a pair of modulation electrodes (e.g.,
implant electrodes 158a and 158b). The modulation electrodes may include any suitable shape
and/or orientation on the implant unit so long as the electrodes may generate an electric field in
the body of a patient. Implant electrodes 158a and 158b may also include any suitable
conductive material (e.g., copper, silver, gold, platinum, iridium, platinum-iridium, platinum
gold, conductive polymers, etc.) or combinations of conductive (and/or noble metals) materials.
In some embodiments, for example, the electrodes may include short line electrodes, circular
electrodes, and/or circular pairs of electrodes. As shown in Fig. 4, electrodes 158a and 158b may
be located on an end of a first extension 162a of an elongate arm 162. The electrodes, however,
may be located on any portion of implant unit 1 10. Additionally, implant unit 110 may include
electrodes located at a plurality of locations, for example on an end of both a first extension 162a
and a second extension 162b of elongate arm 162, as illustrated, for example, in Fig. 5. Implant
electrodes may have a thickness between about 200 nanometers and 1 millimeter. Anode and
cathode electrode pairs may be spaced apart by about a distance of about 0.2 mm to 25 mm. In
additional embodiments, anode and cathode electrode pairs may be spaced apart by a distance of
about 1 mm to 10 mm, or between 4 mm and 7 mm. Adjacent anodes or adjacent cathodes may
be spaced apart by distances as small as 0.00 1 mm or less, or as great as 25 mm or more. In some
embodiments, adjacent anodes or adjacent cathodes may be spaced apart by a distance between
about 0.2 mm and 1 mm.
[00047]      In other embodiments the at least one component includes a lamp. The term "lamp"
refers to any device configured to emit electromagnetic radiation. For example, infrared
radiation, visible light radiation, etc. The lamp may use a light emitting diode (LED) as an
implantable source of optical stimulation for gene therapy.
[00048]      Figure 4 provides a schematic representation of an exemplary configuration of
implant unit 1 10. As illustrated in Figure 4, in one embodiment, the field-generating electrodes
158a and 158b may include two sets of four circular electrodes, provided on flexible carrier 161 ,
with one set of electrodes providing an anode and the other set of electrodes providing a cathode.
Implant unit 110 may include one or more structural elements to facilitate implantation of

                                                   12
implant unit 1 10 into the body of a patient. Such elements may include, for example, elongated
arms, suture holes, polymeric surgical mesh, biological glue, spikes of flexible carrier protruding
to anchor to the tissue, spikes of additional biocompatible material for the same purpose, etc. that
facilitate alignment of implant unit 110 in a desired orientation within a patient's body and
provide attachment points for securing implant unit 110 within a body. For example, in some
embodiments, implant unit 110 may include an elongate arm 162 having a first extension 162a
and, optionally, a second extension 162b. Extensions 162a and 162b may aid in orienting implant
unit 110 with respect to a particular muscle (e.g., the genioglossus muscle), a nerve within a
patient's body, or a surface within a body above a nerve. For example, first and second
extensions 162a, 162b may be configured to enable the implant unit to conform at least partially
around soft or hard tissue (e.g., nerve, bone, or muscle, etc.) beneath a patient's skin, Further,
implant unit 110 may also include one or more suture holes 160 located anywhere on flexible
carrier 161. For example, in some embodiments, suture holes 180 may be placed on second
extension 162b of elongate arm 162 and/or on first extension 162a of elongate arm 162. Implant
unit 110 may be constructed in various shapes. Additionally, or alternatively, implant unit 1 10
may include surgical mesh 1050 or other perforatable material, described in greater detail below
with respect to Fig. 10. In some embodiments, implant unit may appear substantially as
illustrated in Figure 4. In other embodiments, implant unit 110 may lack illustrated structures
such as second extension 182b, or may have additional or different structures in different
orientations. Additionally, implant unit 110 may be formed with a generally triangular, circular,
or rectangular shape, as an alternative to the winged shape shown in Figure 4. In some
embodiments, the shape of implant unit 1 10 (e.g., as shown in Figure 4) may facilitate
orientation of implant unit 1 10 with respect to a particular nerve to be modulated. Thus, other
regular or irregular shapes may be adopted in order to facilitate implantation in differing parts of
the body.
[00049]       As illustrated in Figure 4, secondary antenna 152 and electrodes 158a, 158b may be
mounted on or integrated with flexible carrier 161. Various circuit components and connecting
wires (discussed further below) may be used to connect secondary antenna with implant
electrodes 158a and 158b. To protect the antenna, electrodes, circuit components, and connecting
wires from the environment within a patient's body, implant unit 110 may include a protective
coating that encapsulates implant unit 110. In some embodiments, the protective coating may be
made from a flexible material to enable bending along with flexible carrier 161. The
encapsulation material of the protective coating may also resist humidity penetration and protect

                                                     13
against corrosion. In some embodiments, the protective coating may include a plurality of layers,
including different materials or combinations of materials in different layers
[00050]        Figure 5 is a perspective view of an alternate embodiment of an implant unit 110,
according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated in Figure 5,
implant unit 110 may include a plurality of electrodes, located, for example, at the ends of first
extension 162a and second extension 182b. Figure 5 illustrates an embodiment wherein implant
electrodes 158a and 158b include short line electrodes.
[00051]        As mentioned above, Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary device
(e.g., external unit 120) and exemplary implantable unit (e.g., implant unit 1 10). In one
embodiment, external unit 120 may comprise a primary antenna (e.g., primary antenna 150), a
circuit (e.g., circuit 170 illustrated in Fig. 6), and at least one processor (e.g., processor 144). The
at least one processor may determine a resonant frequency mismatch between the primary
antenna and an antenna associated with the implant unit (e.g., secondary antenna 152). The at
least one processor may also cause a change in a resonant frequency of the primary antenna to
reduce the resonant frequency mismatch.
[00052]        In some embodiments the antenna of the external unit (e.g., primary antenna 150)
may be a coil antenna having a diameter of between about 1 cm to 10 cm, and may be circular or
oval shaped. For example, primary antenna 150 may be a coil antenna having a diameter
between 5 cm and 7 cm, and any number of windings, e.g., 4, 8, 12, or more, A coil antenna
suitable for use as antenna 150 may have a wire diameter between about 0.01 mm and 2 mm.
[00053]       These antenna parameters are exemplary only, and may be adjusted above or below
the ranges given to achieve suitable results. Primary antenna 150 may be configured as part of
external unit 120 and may be coupled either directly or indirectly to various components in
external unit 120. For example, as shown in Fig. 3, primary antenna 150 may have an electric
connection to amplifier 146.
[00054]        In some embodiments, the external unit may include a circuit electrically connected
to the primary antenna. The circuit may include processor 144, power source 140, signal source
142, amplifier 148, at least one capacitor 141 , and feedback circuit 148. The circuit of the
external unit may include other electrical components, for example, switches, transducers,

                                                   14
sensors, detectors, antennas, diodes, etc. For example, the external unit may include an electrical
circuit 170 similar to the circuit elements illustrated in Fig. 6.
[00055]      In some embodiments, the external unit may comprise at least one processor 144. In
some embodiments, processor 144 may be located within the housing of external unit 120. In
alternative embodiments, the at least one processor may be configured for wired or wireless
communication with the external unit from a location remote from the housing. The term
processoro" as used herein refers to a device that includes any suitable logic or computational
components configured according to the requirements of a particular application. In some
embodiments, the processor may include any physical device having an electric circuit that
performs a logic operation on input or inputs. For example, processor 144 may include one or
more integrated circuits, microchips, microcontrollers, microprocessors, all or part of a central
processing unit (CPU), graphics processing unit (GPU), digital signal processor (DSP), field
programmable gate array (FPGA), or other circuits suitable for executing instructions or
performing logic operations. The instructions executed by the controller may, for example, be
preloaded into a memory unit integrated with or embedded into the controller or may be stored in
a separate memory unit, such as a Random Access Memory (RAM), a Read-Only Memory
(ROM), a hard disk, an optical disk, a magnetic medium, a flash memory, other permanent,
fixed, or volatile memory, or any other mechanism capable of storing instructions for the
controller. In case more than one controller or processor is employed, all may be of similar
construction, or they may be of differing constructions electrically connected or disconnected
from each other. They may be separate circuits or integrated in a single circuit. When more than
one controller or processor is used, they may operate independently or collaboratively. They may
be coupled electrically, magnetically, optically, acoustically, mechanically or by other means
permitting them to interact. In some embodiments, the at least one processor may be associated
with a memory.
[00056]      In some embodiments, illustrated in Fig. 3, the external unit 120 may include a
power source 140. Power source 140 may be permanently or removably coupled to a location
within external unit 120. The power source may further include any suitable source of power
configured to be in electrical communication with the processor, For example, power source 140
may include a battery, such as a paper battery, thin film battery, or other type of battery. In some
embodiments, power source 140 may include a substantially fiat, flexible battery.

                                                   15
[00057]      The power source may power various components within the external unit. For
example, power source 140 may provide power to processor 144 and signal source 142, Signal
source 142 may be in communication with the processor 144 and may include any device
configured to generate a signal (e.g., a sinusoidal signal, square wave, triangle wave, microwave,
radio-frequency (RF) signal, or any other type of electromagnetic signal). Signal source 142 may
include, but is not limited to, a waveform generator that may generate alternating current (AC)
signals and/or direct current (DC) signals, in one embodiment, signal source 142 may generate
an AC signal for transmission to one or more other components. Signal source 142 may generate
a signal of any suitable frequency, in some embodiments, signal source 142 may generate a
signal having a frequency of from about 8.5 MHz to about 13.6 MHz, In additional
embodiments, signal source 142 may generate a signal having a frequency of from about 7.4 to
about 8.8 MHz. In further embodiments, signal source 142 may generate a signal having a
frequency as low as 90 kHz or as high as 28 MHz.
[00058]      Signal source 142 may be electrically connected, either directly or indirectly, to
amplifier 146. The amplifier may include any suitable device configured to amplify one or more
signals generated from signal source 142. Amplifier 146 may include one or more of various
types of amplification devices, including, for example, transistor based devices, operational
amplifiers, RF amplifiers, power amplifiers, or any other type of device that can increase the
gain associated with one or more aspects of a signal. The amplifier may further output the
amplified signals to one or more components within external unit 120.
[00059]      Signal source 142 may also be electrically connected, either directly or indirectly, to
at least one capacitor 141. At least one capacitor 141 may include any suitable device configured
for storing an electric charge, In some embodiments, external unit 120 may include a single
capacitor associated, and this capacitor may be associated with a processor. Processor 144 may
be able to select at least two different values of capacitance offered by the capacitor. For
example, processor may be configured to apply the capacitance to a circuit associated with a
primary antenna in the external unit. Changing the capacitance in this way may change the
resonant frequency associated with the primary antenna of the external unit. The capacitor may
be one having a fixed capacitance. In some embodiments, the capacitor may be trimmable such
that multiple capacitance values may be provided by the single capacitor.
[00060]       In other embodiments, external unit 120 may include a plurality of capacitors that
may be selectively included or excluded from circuitry associated with the primary antenna. For

                                                  16
example, external unit 120 may include a bank of capacitors (e.g., 4, 6, or more). Processor 144
may be configured to selectively include or exclude any of the plurality capacitors into the
circuitry associated with the primary antenna in order to change the resonant frequency
associated with the primary antenna. In one example, a bank of six capacitors may permit the
processor to select a capacitance value from 84 (i.e., 26) different possible values.
[00061]       Figs 10A and 1OB illustrate an example of the external unit according to some
embodiments. The example illustrates features that may be found in any combination in other
embodiments. Fig. 10A illustrates a side view of external unit 120, depicting carrier 1201 and
electronics housing 1202.
[00062]       Carrier 1201 may include a skin patch configured for adherence to the skin of a
subject, for example through adhesives of mechanical means. Carrier 1201 may be flexible or
rigid, or may have flexible portions and rigid portions. Carrier 1201 may include a connector
1203 configured for selectively or removably connecting carrier 1201 to electronics housing
1202. Connector 1203 may extend or protrude from carrier 1201. Connector 1203 may be
received by a recess 1204 of electronics housing 1202. Connector 1203 may be configured as a
connector providing a selective connection to electronics housing 1204 without the substantial
use of a concave feature. Connector 1203 may include, for example a peg, or another connective
element extending from carrier 1201. Connector 1203 may further include a magnetic
connection, a velcro connection, and/or a snap dome connection. Connector 1203 may also
include a locating feature, configured to locate electronics housing 1202 at a specific height,
axial location, and/or axial orientation with respect to carrier 1201. A locating feature of
connector 1203 may further include pegs, rings, boxes, ellipses, bumps, etc. Connector 1203 may
be centered on carrier 1201 , may be offset from the center by a predetermined amount, or may
be provided at any other suitable location of carrier 1201. Multiple connectors 1203 may be
provided on carrier 1201. Connector 1203 may be configured such that removal from electronics
housing 1202 causes breakage of connector 1203. Such a feature may be desirable to prevent re
use of carrier 1201 , which may lose some efficacy through continued use.
[00063]       In some embodiments the external unit may include a housing. The housing may
include any suitable container configured for retaining components. While only one embodiment
of housing is illustrated schematically in Figs. 1OA and 1OB, other embodiments of housing may
include any suitable size and/or shape and may be rigid or flexible. External unit 120 may
include one or more of patches, buttons, or other receptacles having varying shapes and

                                                   17
dimensions constructed of any suitable material. In one embodiment, external unit 120 may
include a flexible material enabling external unit to conform to a desired location. For example,
as illustrated in Fig. 2, the external unit may include a skin patch, which, in turn, may include a
flexible substrate. The material of the flexible substrate may include, but is not limited to, plastic,
silicone, woven natural fibers, and other suitable polymers, copolymers, and combinations
thereof. Any portion of external unit 120 may be flexible or rigid, depending on the requirements
of a particular application.
[00064]       Electronics housing 1202 may include electronics portion 1205, which may be
arranged inside electronics housing 1202 in any manner that is suitable. Electronics portion 1205
may include various components, further discussed below, of external unit 120. For example,
electronics portion 1205 may include any combination of at least one processor 144 associated
with external unit 120, a power source 140, such as a battery, a primary antenna 152, and an
circuit 170, Electronics portion 1205 may also include any other component described herein as
associated with external unit 120. Additional components may also be recognized by those of
skill in the art.
[00065]       Electronics housing 1202 may include a recess 1204 configured to receive connector
1203. Electronics housing 1202 may include at least one electrical connector 1210, 1211, 1212.
Electrical connectors 1210, 1211, 1212 may be arranged with pairs of electrical contacts, as
shown in Fig. 1OB, or with any other number of electrical contacts. The pair of electrical contacts
of each electrical connector 1210, 1211, 1212 may be continuously electrically connected with
each other inside of housing 1202, such that the pair of electrical contacts represents a single
connection point to a circuit. In such a configuration, it is only necessary that one of the
electrical contacts within a pair be connected. Electrical connectors 1210, 1211, and 1212 may
include redundant electrical contacts. The electrical contacts of each electrical connector 1210,
1211 , 1212 may also represent opposite ends of a circuit, for example, the positive and negative
ends of a battery charging circuit.
[00066]       Returning to Fig. 3, external unit 120 may communicate with implant unit 110. For
example, in some embodiments, a primary signal may be generated on primary antenna 150,
using processor 144, signal source 142, and amplifier 146. More specifically, in one
embodiment, power source 140 may provide power to one or both of the processor 144 and the
signal source 142. Processor 144 may cause signal source 142 to generate a signal (e.g., an RF
energy signal). Signal source 142 may output the generated signal to amplifier 146, which may

                                                  18
amplify the signal generated by signal source 142. The amount of amplification and, therefore,
the amplitude of the signal may be controlled, for example, by processor 144. The amount of
gain or amplification that processor 144 causes amplifier 146 to apply to the signal may depend
on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the shape, size, and/or configuration of
primary antenna 150, the size of the patient, the location of implant unit 110 in the patient, the
shape, size, and/or configuration of secondary antenna 152, a degree of coupling between
primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152 (discussed further below), and a desired
magnitude of electric field to be generated by implant electrodes 158a, 158b, etc. Amplifier 146
may output the amplified signal to primary antenna 150.
[00067]       In some embodiments, external unit 120 may communicate (e.g., transmit) a primary
signal from primary antenna 150 to secondary antenna 152 of implant unit 110. This
communication may result from coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna
152. Such coupling of the primary antenna and the secondary antenna may include any
interaction between the primary antenna and the secondary antenna that causes a signal on the
secondary antenna in response to a signal applied to the primary antenna. The coupling between
the primary and secondary antennas may include capacitive coupling, inductive coupling, radio
frequency coupling and any combinations thereof.
[00068]       Coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152 may depend on
the proximity of the primary antenna relative to the secondary antenna. That is, in some
embodiments, an efficiency or degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary
antenna 152 may depend on the proximity of the primary antenna to the secondary antenna. The
proximity of the primary and secondary antennas may be expressed in terms of a coaxial offset
(e.g., a distance between the primary and secondary antennas when central axes of the primary
and secondary antennas are co-aligned), a lateral offset (e.g., a distance between a central axis of
the primary antenna and a central axis of the secondary antenna), and/or an angular offset (e.g.,
an angular difference between the central axes of the primary and secondary antennas). In some
embodiments, a theoretical maximum efficiency of coupling may exist between primary antenna
150 and secondary antenna 152 when both the coaxial offset, the lateral offset, and the angular
offset are zero. Increasing any of the coaxial offset, the lateral offset, and the angular offset may
have the effect of reducing the efficiency or degree of coupling between primary antenna 150
and secondary antenna 152.

                                                     19
[00069]      As a result of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152, a
secondary signal may arise on secondary antenna 152 when the primary signal is present on the
primary antenna 150. Such coupling may include inductive/magnetic coupling, RF
coupling/transmission, capacitive coupling, or any other mechanism where a secondary signal
may be generated on secondary antenna 152 in response to a primary signal generated on
primary antenna 150. Coupling may refer to any interaction between the primary and the
secondary antennas. In addition to the coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary
antenna 152, circuit components associated with implant unit 110 may also affect the secondary
signal on secondary antenna 152. Thus, the secondary signal on secondary antenna 152 may
refer to any and all signals and signal components present on secondary antenna 152 regardless
of the source.
[00070]      While the presence of the primary signal on primary antenna 150 may cause or
induce a secondary signal on secondary antenna 152, the coupling between the two antennas may
also lead to a coupled signal or signal components on the primary antenna 150, as a result of the
secondary signal present on secondary antenna 152. A signal on primary antenna 150 induced by
a secondary signal on secondary antenna 152 may be referred to as a primary-coupled-signal.
The primary signal may refer to any and all signals or signal components present on primary
antenna 150, regardless of source, and the primary-coupled-signal may refer to any signal or
signal component arising on the primary antenna as a result of coupling with signals present on
secondary antenna 152. Thus, in some embodiments, the primary-coupled-signal may contribute
to the primary signal on primary antenna 150.
[00071]      Implant unit 1 10 may respond to external unit 120. For example, in some
embodiments, a primary signal generated on primary coil 150 may cause a secondary signal on
secondary antenna 152, which in turn, may cause one or more responses by implant unit 110. In
some embodiments, the response of implant unit 110 may include the generation of an electric
field between implant electrodes 158a and 158b. In other embodiments, the response of implant
unit 110 may include powering an implanted lamp.
[00072]      Fig. 8 illustrates a circuit (170) that may be included in external unit 120 and a circuit
(180) that may be included in implant unit 110. Additional, different, or fewer circuit
components may be included in either or both of circuitry 170 and circuitry 180. As shown in
Fig. 8, secondary antenna 152 may have an electric connection to implant electrodes 158a, 158b.
In some embodiments, circuitry connecting secondary antenna 152 with implant electrodes 158a

                                                  20
and 158b may cause a voltage potential across implant electrodes 158a and 158b in the presence
of a secondary signal on secondary antenna 152. This voltage potential may be referred to as a
field inducing signal, as this voltage potential may generate an electric field between implant
electrodes 158a and 158b. More broadly, the field inducing signal may include any signal (e.g.,
voltage potential) applied to electrodes associated with the implant unit that may result in an
electric field being generated between the electrodes.
[00073]      The efficiency of energy transfer between primary antenna 150 and secondary
antenna 152 may depend on factors including, for example, how closely a resonant frequency
associated with primary antenna 150 (and its associated circuitry 170) matches a resonant
frequency associated with secondary antenna 152 (and its associated circuitry 180). Resonant
frequencies include frequencies at which electrical circuitry naturally oscillates. In some
circumstances, the resonant frequency of the implant unit (e.g., including antenna 152) may
match or be substantially equal to the resonant frequency of the external unit (e.g., including
primary antenna 150). These circumstances may be referred to as those that provide a resonant
frequency match between the implant unit and the external unit. In other circumstances, the
resonant frequency of the implant unit may differ from the resonant frequency of the external
unit. These circumstances may be referred to as those that provide a resonant frequency
mismatch between the implant unit and the external unit.
[00074]      The degree of frequency matching, for example, between the implant unit and the
external unit may be characterized by the proximity of the two resonant frequencies to one
another. For example, a resonant frequency match may be considered to occur when a difference
between the two resonant frequencies are no more than 30%, 20%, 10%, 5%, 3%, 1 %, 0.5%, 0.1
%, or less of, for example, the resonant frequency of the external unit. Accordingly, a resonant
frequency mismatch, also referred to as simply "frequency mismatch," may be considered to
occur when two resonant frequencies do not match. For example, a resonant frequency mismatch
may be considered to occur when a difference between two resonant frequencies (e.g., the
resonant frequencies of the implant unit and the external unit) are greater than about 30%, 40%,
50%, 80%, or more with respect to one of the resonant frequencies (e.g., the resonant frequency
of the external unit), in other embodiments, a resonant frequency match may be deemed to occur
when a difference between the two resonant frequencies are no more than about 0.5% of one of
the frequencies. The proximity of the two resonant frequencies may affect the energy transfer
between the two antennas. For example, the efficiency of energy transfer between two antennas
may depend on several factors, one of which may be the degree to which the resonant

                                                    21
frequencies of the antennas match. Thus, if all other factors are held constant, changing the
resonant frequency of one antenna with respect to the other will alter the efficiency of energy
transfer. A resonant frequency match between two antennas may be considered to occur when
the efficiency of energy transfer is at least 50%. In some embodiments, a resonant frequency
match may be associated with energy transfer efficiencies of 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95% or
greater.
[00075]       The present disclosure includes approaches to change or otherwise control a level of
resonant frequency match or mismatch between the external unit and the implant unit For
example, when an implant unit is placed in the body, the change in environment (e.g., because of
moisture in the body, etc.) may cause a shift in resonant frequency of the implant unit (including,
for example, the implantable circuitry and the secondary antenna of the implant unit). This shift
may result in a mismatch between the resonant frequency of the implant unit and the external
unit, especially where the resonant frequency of the implant unit and the resonant frequency of
the external unit matched prior to implanting the implant unit in the body. Thus, one approach to
addressing the frequency mismatch that may result between the implant unit and the external unit
may include anticipating the amount of drift resulting from implantation of the implant unit in
the body. For example, if the amount of drift is known, can be estimated, calculated, measure,
etc., circuitry in the implant unit may be manufactured, adjusted, tuned, etc. prior to implantation
in order to account for the expected drift.
[00076]       In some cases, the drifting of the internal resonant frequency may last for several
days to several months after implantation before stabilizing. For example, the resonant frequency
of the implant unit may drift from 8.1 kHz to 7.9 kHz. In some embodiments it may be possible
to predict by how much the resonant frequency may drift using experimentation or simulation.
Thus, in the example above, if a long-term resonant frequency value of 7.9 kHz is desired, the
implant unit may be manufactured with a resonant frequency value of 8.1 kHz prior to
implantation.
[00077]       According to some embodiments the internal resonant frequency (e.g., the resonant
frequency associated with the implantable circuit and the secondary antenna) may depend on a
capacitance associated with the implantable circuit. Therefore, in order to set a specific resonant
frequency in some embodiments, the capacitance of the implantable circuit of the implant unit
may be adjusted through the addition and/or adjustment of one or more trimming capacitors prior

                                                   22
to encapsulation. The amount of adjustment may depend on an expected amount of resonant
frequency drift after the implant unit is placed in the body.
[00078]       Knowing the expected resonant frequency drift, the resonant frequency of the
implant unit may be set, for example, by adjusting a capacitance associated with the implantable
circuit. In one embodiment, a capacitor associated with the implantable circuit may be adjusted
(e.g. laser trimmed) to an particular capacitance value before insertion into implant circuitry. In
another embodiment, a capacitor of known value may be inserted into implant circuitry. In still
another embodiment, a plurality of capacitors may be inserted into the implanted circuitry to set
the capacitance of the implantable circuit and to adjust the resonant frequency of the implant
unit. Such a plurality of capacitors may include a series of capacitors each having at least one
capacitance value that may be the same or different. The resonant frequency may be calculated
based on a particular capacitance value. Alternatively, the resonant frequency value may be
iteratively determined after capacitance adjustments. For example, after an adjustment in
capacitance, a resulting resonant frequency may be measured. If the resonant frequency has a
desired value, then no further adjustments may be necessary. Otherwise, the process of adjusting
and measuring may continue iteratively until a desired or target resonant frequency is obtained.
[00079]       In some embodiments, as discussed above, the capacitance associated with the
implantable circuit may be determined such that after the implant unit is placed in the body and
after an expected level of resonant frequency drift, the infernal resonant frequency of the
implantable circuit and the external resonant frequency of the external circuit may be in resonant
frequency match. The expected level of drift may be determined through calculations.
Alternatively or additionally, the expected level of drift may be determined through testing,
[00080]       Some embodiments may include methods for manufacturing an implant unit. For
example, an implantable circuit may be arranged on a carrier, and an antenna may be arranged
on the carrier. The antenna may include an antenna configured to wirelessly receive energy from
an external unit and to transfer at least a portion of the received to the implantable circuit, The
method may also include determining an expected level of resonant frequency drift for the
implant unit and adjusting a capacitance associated with the implantable circuit such that the
implant unit, including the secondary antenna and the implantable circuitry, includes a target
resonant frequency. A difference between the target resonant frequency and the resonant
frequency of the external unit (e.g., including the primary antenna and associated circuitry) may

                                                   23
be close to, substantially equal to, or equal to the amount of expected resonant frequency drift
experienced by the implant unit after implantation into the body.
[00081]       In some circumstances, the resonant frequency of the external unit may change
during use. For example, when primary antenna 152 is bent to conform to the skin of the subject,
the spatial relationship coils within primary antenna 152 may shift, causing a change in resonant
frequency. Additionally, contact with moisture or other agents present on the skin may cause a
shift in the resonant frequency. Accordingly, another approach to reduce the resonant frequency
mismatch between the implant unit and the external unit may focus on adjusting the resonant
frequency associated with the external unit. For example, the processor associated with the
external unit may be configured to determine a current resonant frequency mismatch between the
primary antenna and the secondary antenna associated with the implant unit. In response, the
processor may provide an adjustment to at least one component of the circuitry of the external
unit to cause a change in the resonant frequency of the external unit. For example, in some
embodiments, the processor may apply a plurality of different capacitances to circuitry of the
external unit, which may correspond to a plurality of different resonant frequencies for the
circuitry. For at least some of the different resonant frequencies, the processor may determine a
plurality of energy transmission efficiency values between the external unit and the implant unit.
Based on the determined energy efficiency values, the processor may select a particular
capacitance value that provides an efficiency above a predetermined threshold or one that is
closest to a target efficiency, etc.
[00082]       In some embodiments, the processor may determine a resonant frequency mismatch
based on transmission of a primary signal from the primary antenna to the secondary antenna.
The determination may be based on a primary-coupled-signal and the coupling between the
primary antenna and the secondary antenna. By monitoring the primary-coupled-signal, the
processor may determine the transmission efficiency, which may in turn be an indication of
resonant frequency mismatch.
[00083]       The processor may be configured to determine the level of resonant frequency
mismatch based on any suitable conditions. For example, when the processor determines energy
transfer efficiency has fallen below a certain threshold (e.g., 70%), the amount of mismatch may
be determined, and circuitry associated with the external unit may be adjusted to reduce or
eliminate the mismatch. Alternatively or additionally, the processor may periodically monitor a
current level of resonant frequency mismatch (e.g., every few seconds, minutes, hours, days,

                                                   24
etc.) In some embodiments the processor may monitor a current level of the resonant frequency
mismatch at unequal time intervals. For example, the processor may be configured to monitor a
level of resonant frequency mismatch between the implant unit and the external unit at shorter
time intervals (e.g., every few seconds or minutes) after the implant unit has been newly
implanted (e.g., during the first week or month after implantation). As the implant ages, drift in
resonant frequency of the implant unit may stabilize. Therefore, as the implant ages, the
processor may monitor resonant frequency mismatch more infrequently.
[00084]       Upon determining a resonant frequency mismatch between the implant unit and the
external unit, the processor may adjust the resonant frequency of circuitry in the external unit
(e.g., self-resonant transmitter circuit including the primary antenna) to reduce the mismatch. A
self-resonant transmitter circuit may include features to permit adjustment of a resonant
frequency of the circuit. Such adjustment may take place through the selective inclusion and
exclusion of at least one capacitor into or out of a self-resonant transmitter circuit. Adding (or
subtracting) capacitors to the self-resonant transmitter circuit may cause a change in the resonant
frequency of the circuit. In some embodiments the change in the resonant frequency associated
with the primary antenna may cause the resonant frequency of the primary antenna and the
resonant frequency of the secondary antenna to substantially match.
[00085]       In one embodiment, the external unit includes at least one capacitor configured to be
selectively included and selectively excluded from the circuit. The processor may adjust the
resonant frequency of the primary antenna by selectively including and excluding the at least one
capacitor from the circuit. For example, the external unit's circuit may be provided with one or
more capacitors or trim capacitors configured, through processor-controlled switches, for
selective inclusion and exclusion. The switches may include, for example, transistors or relays.
Thus, the processor may include or exclude a capacitor from the circuit by opening or closing a
switch associated with the respective capacitor.
[00086]       A single capacitor associated with a switch or a processor-selectable capacitance
value may enable the processor to select between at least two different values of the resonant
frequency. In one embodiment, the external unit may include a bank of a plurality of capacitors
(e.g., 4, 6, 12, or more), enabling the processor to select a capacitance based on combinations of
capacitors, A bank of six capacitors, for example, would yield 64 different capacitance
combinations and, in theory, a similar number of resonant frequency values. In some
embodiments, the processor may be configured to use more or less than ail of the available

                                                   25
capacitors for adjusting the circuitry or for testing for resonant frequency mismatch, etc. In some
embodiments, capacitors included in a plurality of capacitors available to the processor may each
include the same capacitance value or may include various different values.
[00087]       The at least one processor may selectively include or exclude capacitance values
from one or more trimmable capacitors or from one or more of a plurality of capacitors in order
to determine a current level of frequency mismatch between the implant unit and external unit.
Based on the current level of mismatch, the processor may then attempt to reduce, minimize, or
eliminate the current level of mismatch by selectively including or excluding capacitance values
from one or more trimmable capacitors or from one or more of a plurality of capacitors in order
to set the resonant frequency of the external unit at or near to a desired resonant frequency value.
In this way, the processor may attempt to reduce, minimize, or eliminate any mismatch
determined to exist between the external unit and the implant unit.
[00088]      According to one embodiment, the processor may select a combination of capacitors
from the plurality of capacitors, to provide a resonant frequency match that surpasses a
predetermined threshold. For example, selection of the capacitance values may result in a
difference between the resonant frequency of the implant unit and the resonant frequency of the
external unit being no more than 10% of the resonant frequency of the external unit.
[00089]      In some embodiments the processor of the external unit may apply an adjustment to
at least one component of the circuit to cause a change in the resonant frequency of the external
unit. In an exemplary embodiment, the adjustment includes switching capacitors from a
capacitor bank into and out of the circuit. For example, during transmission of a primary signal,
the processor may determine a capacitor combination that changes (e.g., increases) transmission
efficiency and resonant frequency match. The adjustment may cause a difference in the resonant
frequency of the primary antenna and the resonant frequency of the secondary antenna to be no
more than 30% of the resonant frequency of the primary antenna, for example. Additionally, the
adjustment may enable at least 50% energy transfer efficiency between the external unit and the
implant unit.
[00090]      Fig. 11 depicts an additional embodiment illustrating a self-resonant transmitter
circuit employing a modified class D amplifier for use with resonant frequency matching
methods. Modified class D amplifier 1800 may be used in place of, or in addition to, any or all of
the elements of external unit 120 depicted in Fig. 3. For example, modified class D amplifier

                                                  26
1800 may replace signal source 142 and amplifier 146. In this embodiment, processor 144 may
adjust the operation of a class D amplifier to provide a frequency match between a generated
signal and a resonant frequency of a primary antenna 150. Because the resonant frequency of
primary antenna 150 may be adjusted to match that of secondary antenna 152 during operation, it
may be beneficial to adjust the frequency of the generated signal as well to improve efficiency
within the self-resonant transmitter circuit of an external unit 120. Modified class D amplifier
1600 may be used to provide such an adjustment as follows. Modified class D amplifier 1600
includes an H bridge 1601 including switches (such as MOSFETs) 1620. Between the switches
is self-resonant transmitter circuit 1610. Power to the modified class D amplifier is supplied by
supply voltage 1650, which may be supplied from a battery, for example. As shown in Fig. 16,
self-resonant transmitter circuit 1610 may include multiple capacitances 1640 and inductances
1660. Capacitances 1640 may include multiple capacitors, combinations of which may be chosen
from among capacitors as described above, in order to selectively provide an appropriate value
of capacitance 1640. The value of capacitance 1840 may be selected for resonant frequency
matching to secondary antenna 152. Inductances 1660 may be provided at least partially by
primary antenna 150. Processor 144 may also adjust a driving frequency of the H bridge
switches 1620 in order to generate a signal of a frequency that matches the resonant frequency of
self-resonant circuit 1610. By selectively opening and closing switches 1620 appropriately, the
DC signal of supply voltage 1650 may be converted into a square wave of a selected frequency.
This frequency may be selected to match the resonant frequency of self-resonant circuit 1610 in
order to increase the efficiency of the circuit.
[00091]      Fig. 12 depicts an additional embodiment illustrating a pulsed mode self-resonant
transmitter 1700 for use with resonant frequency matching methods. Pulsed mode self-resonant
transmitter 1700 may be used in place of, or in addition to, any or all of the elements of external
unit 120 depicted in Fig. 3. For example, pulsed mode self-resonant transmitter 1700 may
replace signal source 142 and amplifier 146. In this embodiment, processor 144 may control the
circuit through a power switching unit, depicted in the present embodiment as switch 1730. A
power switching unit may include a transistor, relay, or similar switching device. Pulsed mode
self-resonant transmitter 1700 includes a primary power source 1780, for example, a battery or
alternative source of power. Transmitter 1700 may include a power storage unit, such as storage
capacitor 1750. Other suitable power storage units may also be utilized, such as an inductor
and/or battery, as well as combinations of these storage elements. Transmitter 1700 may also
include a self-resonant transmitter circuit 1710, including resonance capacitance 1720 and a

                                                  27
resonance inductance 1760. Resonance inductance 1760 may be provided at least partially by
primary antenna 150.
[00092]      Transmitter 1700 may operate in the following manner, among others. Processor 144
may control the operation of switch 1730. When switch 1730 is maintained in an open position,
current from power source 1780 flows into storage capacitor 1750 which thereby accumulates an
electrical charge. When switch 1730 is closed, charged storage capacitor 1750 drives current into
the self-resonant circuit 1710 during a current loading period, where energy is stored in
inductance 1760. Due to the operation of diode 1770, current flow into circuit 1710 will be cut
off after a period of energy accumulation. The current transferred to circuit 1710 will then
oscillate freely within circuit 1710 at the resonant frequency of circuit 1710 and thus generate a
signal for transmission to the implant through primary antenna 150 (which is included in the
circuit and creates at least a portion of inductance 1760). Because the signal is generated by the
self-resonance of circuit 1710, it will match the resonant frequency of circuit 1710 and a more
efficient transmission may be created.
[00093]      Components of transmitter 1700 may be chosen such that the current loading period
is approximately two microseconds and a period of free oscillation in circuit 1710 is between 10
and 20 microseconds. Other components may be selected, however, to provide any desired
current loading period or free oscillation period. As described elsewhere in this disclosure,
stimulation pulses of varying lengths may be desired. Stimulation pulses of longer than a single
period of free oscillation may be constructed by multiple cycles of loading and releasing energy
from storage capacitor 1750 into circuit 1710. Storage capacitor 1750 may itself be chosen to
store enough charge to drive a large number of oscillation cycles (e.g., between 10 and 100) in
order to construct entire stimulation pulses without requiring recharging from power source
1780.
[00094]      Pulsed mode self-resonant transmitter 1700 may provide several advantages. As
described above, because the transmission signal is generated by the self-resonance of circuit
1710, it likely will match the resonant frequency of circuit 1710, obviating a need to match the
frequency of the generated signal with the circuit resonance frequency. Further, because energy
is stored in capacitor 1750 prior to discharge into circuit 1710, a greater flexibility in choice of
power source 1780 may be provided. Effective neural stimulation may depend on current levels
that rise rapidly. To achieve this with a battery alone may require a high-voltage and/or high
current battery. This need may be obviated by transmitter 1700, which permits the delivery of a

                                                   28
very high peak current through the use of a relatively low voltage / low current battery.
Transmitter 1700 uses fewer switches (e.g., transistors) than does a conventional amplifying
circuit. Each switch may be a source of energy loss, contributing to an overall less efficient
circuit. The presence of a single switch 1730 in transmitter 1700 may increase the efficiency of
the circuit as a whole.
[00095]      The field inducing signal may be generated as a result of conditioning of the
secondary signal by circuitry 180. As shown in Fig. 6, circuitry 170 of external unit 120 may
generate an AC primary signal on primary antenna 150 that may cause an AC secondary signal
on secondary antenna 152. In certain embodiments, however, it may be advantageous (e.g., in
order to generate a unidirectional electric field for modulation of a nerve) to provide a DC field
inducing signal at implant electrodes 158a and 158b. To convert the AC secondary signal on
secondary antenna 152 to a DC field inducing signal, circuitry 180 in implant unit 110 may
include an AC-DC converter. The AC to DC converter may include any suitable converter
known to those skilled in the art. For example, in some embodiments the AC-DC converter may
include rectification circuit components including, for example, diode 156 and appropriate
capacitors and resistors. In alternative embodiments, implant unit 110 may include an AC-AC
converter, or no converter, in order to provide an AC field inducing signal at implant electrodes
158a and 158b.
[00096]      As noted above, the field inducing signal may generate an electric field between
implant electrodes 158a and 158b. In some instances, the magnitude and/or duration of the
generated electric field resulting from the field inducing signal may be sufficient to modulate one
or more nerves in the vicinity of electrodes 158a and 158b, In such cases, the field inducing
signal may be referred to as a modulation signal. In other instances, the magnitude and/or
duration of the field inducing signal may generate an electric field that does not result in nerve
modulation. In such cases, the field inducing signal may be referred to as a sub-modulation
signal.
[00097]      Various types of field inducing signals may constitute modulation signals. For
example, in some embodiments, a modulation signal may include a moderate amplitude and
moderate duration, while in other embodiments, a modulation signal may include a higher
amplitude and a shorter duration. Various amplitudes and/or durations of field-inducing signals
across electrodes 158a, 158b may result in modulation signals, and whether a field-inducing
signal rises to the level of a modulation signal can depend on many factors (e.g., distance from a

                                                   29
particular nerve to be stimulated; whether the nerve is branched; orientation of the induced
electric field with respect to the nerve; type of tissue present between the electrodes and the
nerve; etc.).
[00098]       Whether a field inducing signal constitutes a modulation signal (resulting in an
electric field that may cause nerve modulation) or a sub-modulation signal (resulting in an
electric field not intended to cause nerve modulation) may ultimately be controlled by processor
144 of external unit 120. For example, in certain situations, processor 144 may determine that
nerve modulation is appropriate. Under these conditions, processor 144 may cause signal source
144 and amplifier 146 to generate a modulation control signal on primary antenna 150 (i.e., a
signal having a magnitude and/or duration selected such that a resulting secondary signal on
secondary antenna 152 will provide a modulation signal at implant electrodes 158a and 158b).
[00099]       Processor 144 may limit an amount of energy transferred from external unit 120 to
implant unit 110. For example, in some embodiments, implant unit 110 may be associated with a
threshold energy limit that may take into account multiple factors associated with the patient
and/or the implant. For example, in some cases, certain nerves of a patient should receive no
more than a predetermined maximum amount of energy to minimize the risk of damaging the
nerves and/or surrounding tissue. Additionally, circuitry 180 of implant unit 110 may include
components having a maximum operating voltage or power level that may contribute to a
practical threshold energy limit of implant unit 1 10. Processor 144 may be configured to
account for such limitations when setting the magnitude and/or duration of a primary signal to be
applied to primary antenna 150.
[000100]      In addition to determining an upper limit of power that may be delivered to implant
unit 110, processor 144 may also determine a lower power threshold based, at least in part, on an
efficacy of the delivered power. The lower power threshold may be computed based on a
minimum amount of power that enables nerve modulation (e.g., signals having power levels
above the lower power threshold may constitute modulation signals while signals having power
levels below the lower power threshold may constitute sub-modulation signals).
[000101]      A lower power threshold may also be measured or provided in alternative ways. For
example, appropriate circuitry or sensors in the implant unit 110 may measure a lower power
threshold. A lower power threshold may be computed or sensed by an additional external device,
and subsequently programmed into processor 144, or programmed into implant unit 110.

                                                   30
Alternatively, implant unit 110 may be constructed with circuitry 180 specifically chosen to
generate signals at the electrodes of at least the lower power threshold. In still another
embodiment, an antenna of external unit 120 may be adjusted to accommodate or produce a
signal corresponding to a specific lower power threshold. The lower power threshold may vary
from patient to patient, and may take into account multiple factors, such as, for example,
modulation characteristics of a particular patient's nerve fibers, a distance between implant unit
110 and external unit 120 after implantation, and the size and configuration of implant unit
components (e.g., antenna and implant electrodes), etc.
[000102]      Processor 144 may also cause application of sub-modulation control signals to
primary antenna 150. Such sub-modulation control signals may include an amplitude and/or
duration that result in a sub-modulation signal at electrodes 158a, 158b. While such sub
modulation control signals may not result in nerve modulation, such sub-modulation control
signals may enable feedback-based control of the nerve modulation system. That is, in some
embodiments, processor 144 may cause application of a sub-modulation control signal to
primary antenna 150. This signal may induce a secondary signal on secondary antenna 152,
which, in turn, induces a primary-coupled-signal on primary antenna 150.
[000103]      To analyze the primary-coupled-signal induced on primary antenna 150, external unit
120 may include a feedback circuit 148 (e.g., a signal analyzer or detector, etc.), which may be
placed in direct or indirect communication with primary antenna 150 and processor 144. Sub
modulation control signals may be applied to primary antenna 150 at any desired periodicity. In
some embodiments, the sub-modulation control signals may be applied to primary antenna 150
at a rate of one every five seconds {or longer). In other embodiments, the sub-modulation control
signals may be applied more frequently (e.g., once every two seconds, once per second, once per
millisecond, once per nanosecond, or multiple times per second). Further, it should be noted that
feedback may also be received upon application of modulation control signals to primary
antenna 150 (i.e., those that result in nerve modulation), as such modulation control signals may
also result in generation of a primary-coupled-signal on primary antenna 150.
[000104]      The primary-coupled-signal may be fed to processor 144 by feedback circuit 148 and
may be used as a basis for determining a degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and
secondary antenna 152. The degree of coupling may enable determination of the efficacy of the
energy transfer between two antennas. Processor 144 may also use the determined degree of
coupling in regulating delivery of power to implant unit 110.

                                                    31
 [000105]    Processor 144 may be configured with any suitable logic for determining how to
regulate power transfer to implant unit 110 based on the determined degree of coupling. For
example, where the primary-coupled-signal indicates that a degree of coupling has changed from
a baseline coupling level, processor 144 may determine that secondary antenna 152 has moved
with respect to primary antenna 150 (either in coaxial offset, lateral offset, or angular offset, or
any combination). Such movement, for example, may be associated with a movement of the
implant unit 110, and the tissue that it is associated with based on its implant location. Thus, in
such situations, processor 144 may determine that modulation of a nerve in the patient's body is
appropriate. More particularly, in response to an indication of a change in coupling, processor
 144, in some embodiments, may cause application of a modulation control signal to primary
antenna 150 in order to generate a modulation signal at implant electrodes 158a, 158b, e.g., to
cause modulation of a nerve of the patient.
 [000106]    In an embodiment for the treatment of OSA, movement of an implant unit 110 may
be associated with movement of the tongue, which may indicate the onset of a sleep apnea event
or a sleep apnea precursor. The onset of a sleep apnea event of sleep apnea precursor may
require the stimulation of the genioglossus muscle of the patient to relieve or avert the event.
 Such stimulation may result in contraction of the muscle and movement of the patient's tongue
away from the patient's airway.
 [000107]    In embodiments for the treatment of head pain, including migraines, processor 144
may generate a modulation control signal based on a signal from a user, for example, or a
detected level of neural activity in a sensory neuron (e.g., the greater occipital nerve or
trigeminal nerve) associated with head pain. A modulation control signal generated by the
processor and applied to the primary antenna 150 may generate a modulation signal at implant
electrodes 158a, 158b, e.g., to cause inhibition or blocking of a sensory nerve of the patient.
 Such inhibition or blocking may decrease or eliminate the sensation of pain for the patient.
 [000108]    In embodiments for the treatment of hypertension, processor 144 may generate a
modulation control signal based on, for example, pre-programmed instructions and/or signals
from an implant indicative of blood pressure. A modulation control signal generated by the
processor and applied to the primary antenna 150 may generate a modulation signal at implant
electrodes 158a, 158b, e.g., to cause either inhibition or stimulation of nerve of a patient,
depending on the requirements. For example, a neuromodulator placed in a carotid artery or
jugular artery (i.e. in the vicinity of a carotid baroreceptor), may receive a modulation control

                                                  32
signal tailored to induce a stimulation signal at the electrodes, thereby causing the
glossopharyngeal nerve associated with the carotid baroreceptors to fire at an increased rate in
order to signal the brain to lower blood pressure. Similar modulation of the glossopharyngeal
nerve may be achieved with a neuromodulator implanted in a subcutaneous location in a patient's
neck or behind a patient's ear. A neuromodulator place in a renal artery may receive a
modulation control signal tailored to cause an inhibiting or blocking signal at the electrodes,
thereby inhibiting a signal to raise blood pressure carried from the renal nerves to the kidneys.
[000109]     Modulation control signals may include stimulation control signals, and sub
modulation control signals may include sub-stimulation control signals. Stimulation control
signals may have any amplitude, pulse duration, or frequency combination that results in a
stimulation signal at electrodes 158a, 158b. In some embodiments (e.g., at a frequency of
between about 8.5-13.6 MHz), stimulation control signals may include a pulse duration of
greater than about 50 microseconds and/or an amplitude of approximately .5 amps, or between
0.1 amps and 1 amp, or between 0.05 amps and 3 amps. Sub-stimulation control signals may
have a pulse duration less than about 500, or less than about 200 nanoseconds and/or an
amplitude less than about 1 amp, 0.5 amps, 0.1 amps, 0,05 amps, or 0.01 amps. Of course, these
values are meant to provide a general reference only, as various combinations of values higher
than or lower than the exemplary guidelines provided may or may not result in nerve stimulation.
[000110]     In some embodiments, stimulation control signals may include a pulse train, wherein
each pulse includes a plurality of sub-pulses. An alternating current signal (e.g., at a frequency of
between about 6.5-13.6 MHz) may be used to generate the pulse train, as follows. A sub-pulse
may have a duration of between 50-250 microseconds, or a duration of between 1 microsecond
and 2 milliseconds, during which an alternating current signal is turned on. For example, a 200
microsecond sub-pulse of a 10 MHz alternating current signal will include approximately 2000
periods. Each pulse may, in turn, have a duration of between 100 and 500 milliseconds, during
which sub-pulses occur at a frequency of between 25 and 100 Hz. For example, a 200
millisecond pulse of 50 Hz sub-pulses will include approximately 10 sub-pulses. Finally, in a
pulse train, each pulse may be separated from the next by a duration of between 0,2 and 2
seconds. For example, in a pulse train of 200 millisecond pulses, each separated by 1.3 seconds
from the next, a new pulse will occur every 1.5 seconds. A pulse train of this embodiment may
be utilized, for example, to provide ongoing stimulation during a treatment session. In the
context of OSA, a treatment session may be a period of time during which a subject is asleep and
in need of treatment to prevent OSA. Such a treatment session may last anywhere from about

                                                     33
three to ten hours. In the context of other conditions to which neural modulators of the present
disclosure are applied, a treatment session may be of varying length according to the duration of
the treated condition.
[000111]     Processor 144 may determine a degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and
secondary antenna 152 by monitoring one or more aspects of the primary-coupled-signal
received through feedback circuit 148. In some embodiments, processor 144 may determine a
degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152 by monitoring a
voltage level associated with the primary-coupled-signal, a current level, or any other attribute
that may depend on the degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna
152. For example, in response to periodic sub-modulation signals applied to primary antenna
150, processor 144 may determine a baseline voltage level or current level associated with the
primary-coupled-signal. This baseline voltage level, for example, may be associated with a range
of movement of the patient's tongue when a sleep apnea event or its precursor is not occurring,
e.g., during normal breathing. As the patient's tongue moves toward a position associated with a
sleep apnea event or its precursor, the coaxial, lateral, or angular offset between primary antenna
150 and secondary antenna 152 may change. As a result, the degree of coupling between primary
antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152 may change, and the voltage level or current level of the
primary-coupled-signal on primary antenna 150 may also change. Processor 144 may recognize
a sleep apnea event or its precursor when a voltage level, current level, or other electrical
characteristic associated with the primary-coupled-signal changes by a predetermined amount or
reaches a predetermined absolute value.
[000112]     Fig. 7 provides a graph that illustrates this principle in more detail. For a two-coil
system where one coil receives a radio frequency (RF) drive signal, graph 200 plots a rate of
change in induced current in the receiving coil as a function of coaxial distance between the
coils. For various coil diameters and initial displacements, graph 200 illustrates the sensitivity of
the induced current to further displacement between the coils, moving them either closer together
or further apart. It also indicates that, overall, the induced current in the secondary coil will
decrease as the secondary coil is moved away from the primary, drive coil, i.e. the rate of change
of induced current, in mA/mm, is consistently negative. The sensitivity of the induced current to
further displacement between the coils varies with distance. For example, at a separation distance
of 10 mm, the rate of change in current as a function of additional displacement in a 14 mm coil
is approximately -6 mA/mm. if the displacement of the coils is approximately 22 mm, the rate of
change in the induced current in response to additional displacement is approximately -1 1

                                                   34
mA/mm, which corresponds to a local maximum in the rate of change of the induced current.
Increasing the separation distance beyond 22 mm continues to result in a decline in the induced
current in the secondary coil, but the rate of change decreases. For example, at a separation
distance of about 30 mm, the 14 mm coil experiences a rate of change in the induced current in
response to additional displacement of about -8 mA/mm. With this type of information,
processor 144 may be able to determine a particular degree of coupling between primary antenna
150 and secondary antenna 152, at any given time, by observing the magnitude and/or rate of
change in the magnitude of the current associated with the primary-coupled-signal on primary
antenna 150.
[000113]     Processor 144 may determine a degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and
secondary antenna 152 by monitoring other aspects of the primary-coupled-signal. For example,
in some embodiments, the non-linear behavior of circuitry 180 in implant unit 110 may be
monitored to determine a degree of coupling. For example, the presence, absence, magnitude,
reduction and/or onset of harmonic components in the primary-coupled-signal on primary
antenna 150 may reflect the behavior of circuitry 180 in response to various control signals
(either sub-modulation or modulation control signals) and, therefore, may be used to determine a
degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152.
[000114]     As shown in Fig. 6, circuitry 180 in implant unit 1 10 may constitute a non-linear
circuit due, for example, to the presence of non-linear circuit components, such as diode 156.
Such non-linear circuit components may induce non-linear voltage responses under certain
operation conditions. Non-linear operation conditions may be induced when the voltage potential
across diode 156 exceeds the activation threshold for diode 156. Thus, when implant circuitry
180 is excited at a particular frequency, this circuit may oscillate at multiple frequencies.
Spectrum analysis of the secondary signal on secondary antenna 152, therefore, may reveal one
or more oscillations, called harmonics, that appear at certain multiples of the excitation
frequency. Through coupling of primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152, any harmonics
produced by implant circuitry 180 and appearing on secondary antenna 152 may also appear in
the primary-coupled-signal present on primary antenna 150.
[000115]     In certain embodiments, circuitry 180 may include additional circuit components that
alter the characteristics of the harmonics generated in circuitry 180 above a certain transition
point. Monitoring how these non-linear harmonics behave above and below the transition point
may enable a determination of a degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary

                                                    35
antenna 152. For example, as shown in Fig, 6, circuitry 180 may include a harmonics modifier
circuit 154, which may include any electrical components that non-linearly alter the harmonics
generated in circuitry 180. Sn some embodiments, harmonics modifier circuit 154 may include a
pair of Zener diodes. Below a certain voltage level, these Zener diodes remain forward biased
such that no current will flow through either diode. Above the breakdown voltage of the Zener
diodes, however, these devices become conductive in the reversed biased direction and will
allow current to flow through harmonics modifier circuit 154, Once the Zener diodes become
conductive, they begin to affect the oscillatory behavior of circuitry 180, and, as a result, certain
harmonic oscillation frequencies may be affected (e.g., reduced in magnitude).
[000116]     Figs. 8 and 9 illustrate this effect. For example, Fig, 8 illustrates a graph 300a that
shows the oscillatory behavior of circuitry 180 at several amplitudes ranging from about 10
nanoamps to about 20 microamps. As shown, the primary excitation frequency occurs at about
6,7 MHz and harmonics appear both at even and odd multiples of the primary excitation
frequency. For example, even multiples appear at twice the excitation frequency (peak 302a),
four times the excitation frequency (peak 304a) and six times the excitation frequency (peak
306a). As the amplitude of the excitation signal rises between 10 nanoamps and 40 microamps,
the amplitude of peaks 302a, 304a, and 306a all increase.
[000117]     Fig. 9 illustrates the effect on the even harmonic response of circuitry 180 caused by
harmonics modifier circuit 154. Fig. 9 illustrates a graph 300b that shows the oscillatory
behavior of circuitry 180 at several amplitudes ranging from about 30 microamps to about 100
microamps. As in Fig. 8 and Fig, 9 shows a primary excitation frequency at about 6.7 MHz and
second, fourth, and sixth order harmonics (peaks 302b, 304b, and 308b, respectively) appearing
at even multiples of the excitation frequency. As the amplitude of the excitation signal rises,
however, between about 30 microamps to about 100 microamps, the amplitudes of peaks 302b,
304b, and 306b do not continuously increase. Rather, the amplitude of the second order
harmonics decreases rapidly above a certain transition level (e.g., about 80 microamps in Fig. 8).
This transition level corresponds to the level at which the Zener diodes become conductive in the
reverse biased direction and begin to affect the oscillatory behavior of circuitry 180.
[000118]     Monitoring the level at which this transition occurs may enable a determination of a
degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152. For example, in
some embodiments, a patient may attach external unit 120 over an area of the skin under which
implant unit 1 10 resides. Processor 144 can proceed to cause a series of sub-modulation control

                                                  36
signals to be applied to primary antenna 150, which in turn cause secondary signals on secondary
antenna 152. These sub-modulation control signals may progress over a sweep or scan of various
signal amplitude levels. By monitoring the resulting primary-coupled-signal on primary antenna
150 (generated through coupling with the secondary signal on secondary antenna 152), processor
144 can determine the amplitude of primary signal (whether a sub-modulation control signal or
other signal) that results in a secondary signal of sufficient magnitude to activate harmonics
modifier circuit 154. That is, processor 144 can monitor the amplitude of the second, fourth, or
sixth order harmonics and determine the amplitude of the primary signal at which the amplitude
of any of the even harmonics drops. Figs. 8 and 9 illustrate the principles of detecting coupling
through the measurement of non-linear harmonics. These Figures illustrate data based around a
6.7 MHz excitation frequency. These principles, however, are not limited to the 6.7 MHz
excitation frequency illustrated, and may be used with a primary signal of any suitable
frequency.
[000119]     In some embodiments, the determined amplitude of the primary signal corresponding
to the transition level of the Zener diodes (which may be referred to as a primary signal transition
amplitude) may establish a baseline range when the patient attaches external unit 120 to the skin.
Presumably, while the patient is awake, the tongue is not blocking the patient's airway and
moves with the patients breathing in a natural range, where coupling between primary antenna
150 and secondary antenna 152 may be within a baseline range. A baseline coupling range may
encompass a maximum coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152. A
baseline coupling range may also encompass a range that does not include a maximum coupling
level between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152. Thus, the initially determined
primary signal transition amplitude may be fairly representative of a non-sleep apnea condition
and may be used by processor 144 as a baseline in determining a degree of coupling between
primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152. Optionally, processor 144 may also monitor the
primary signal transition amplitude over a series of scans and select the minimum value as a
baseline, as the minimum value may correspond to a condition of maximum coupling between
primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152 during normal breathing conditions,
[000120]     As the patient wears external unit 120, processor 144 may periodically scan over a
range of primary signal amplitudes to determine a current value of the primary signal transition
amplitude, in some embodiments, the range of amplitudes that processor 144 selects for the scan
may be based on (e.g., near) the level of the baseline primary signal transition amplitude. If a
periodic scan results in determination of a primary signal transition amplitude different from the

                                                  37
baseline primary signal transition amplitude, processor 144 may determine that there has been a
change from the baseline initial conditions. For example, in some embodiments, an increase in
the primary signal transition amplitude over the baseline value may indicate that there has been a
reduction in the degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152
(e.g., because the implant has moved or an internal state of the implant has changed).
[000121]     In addition to determining whether a change in the degree of coupling has occurred,
processor 144 may also determine a specific degree of coupling based on an observed primary
signal transition amplitude. For example, in some embodiments, processor 144 may have access
to a lookup table or a memory storing data that correlates various primary signal transition
amplitudes with distances (or any other quantity indicative of a degree of coupling) between
primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152. in other embodiments, processor 144 may
calculate a degree of coupling based on performance characteristics of known circuit
components.
[000122]     By periodically determining a degree of coupling value, processor 144 may
determine, in situ, appropriate parameter values for the modulation control signal that will
ultimately result in nerve modulation. For example, by determining the degree of coupling
between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152, processor 144 may select
characteristics of the modulation control signal (e.g., amplitude, pulse duration, frequency, etc.)
that may provide a modulation signal at electrodes 158a, 158b in proportion to or otherwise
related to the determined degree of coupling. In some embodiments, processor 144 may access a
lookup table or other data stored in a memory correlating modulation control signal parameter
values with degree of coupling. In this way, processor 144 may adjust the applied modulation
control signal in response to an observed degree of coupling.
[000123]     Additionally or alternatively, processor 144 may determine the degree of coupling
between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152 during modulation. The tongue, or
other structure on or near which the implant is located, and thus implant unit 110, may move as a
result of modulation. Thus, the degree of coupling may change during modulation. Processor 144
may determine the degree of coupling as it changes during modulation, in order to dynamically
adjust characteristics of the modulation control signal according to the changing degree of
coupling. This adjustment may permit processor 144 to cause implant unit 110 to provide an
appropriate modulation signal at electrodes 158a, 158b throughout a modulation event. For
example, processor 144 may alter the primary signal in accordance with the changing degree of

                                                  38
coupling in order to maintain a constant modulation signal, or to cause the modulation signal to
be reduced in a controlled manner according to patient needs.
[000124]     More particularly, the response of processor 144 may be correlated to the determined
degree of coupling. In situations where processor 144 determines that the degree of coupling
between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna has fallen only slightly below a
predetermined coupling threshold (e.g. during snoring or during a small vibration of the tongue
or other sleep apnea event precursor), processor 144 may determine that only a small response is
necessary. Thus, processor 144 may select modulation control signal parameters that will result
in a relatively small response (e.g., a short stimulation of a nerve, small muscle contraction, etc).
Where, however, processor 144 determines that the degree of coupling has fallen substantially
below the predetermined coupling threshold (e.g., where the tongue has moved enough to cause
a sleep apnea event), processor 144 may determine that a larger response is required. As a result,
processor 144 may select modulation control signal parameters that will result in a larger
response. In some embodiments, only enough power may be transmitted to implant unit 110 to
cause the desired level of response. In other words, processor 144 may cause a metered response
based on the determined degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna
152. As the determined degree of coupling decreases, processor 144 may cause transfer of power
in increasing amounts. Such an approach may preserve battery life in the external unit 120, may
protect circuitry 170 and circuitry 180, may increase effectiveness in addressing the type of
detected condition (e.g., sleep apnea, snoring, tongue movement, etc.), and may be more
comfortable for the patient.
[000125]     In some embodiments, processor 144 may employ an iterative process in order to
select modulation control signal parameters that result in a desired response level. For example,
upon determining that a modulation control signal should be generated, processor 144 may cause
generation of an initial modulation control signal based on a set of predetermined parameter
values. If feedback from feedback circuit 148 indicates that a nerve has been modulated (e.g, if
an increase in a degree of coupling is observed), then processor 144 may return to a monitoring
mode by issuing sub-modulation control signals, if, on the other hand, the feedback suggests that
the intended nerve modulation did not occur as a result of the intended modulation control signal
or that modulation of the nerve occurred but only partially provided the desired result (e.g,
movement of the tongue only partially away from the airway), processor 144 may change one or
more parameter values associated with the modulation control signal (e.g., the amplitude, pulse
duration, etc.).

                                                   39
[000126]     Where no nerve modulation occurred, processor 144 may increase one or more
parameters of the modulation control signal periodically until the feedback indicates that nerve
modulation has occurred. Where nerve modulation occurred, but did not produce the desired
result, processor 144 may re-evaluate the degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and
secondary antenna 152 and select new parameters for the modulation control signal targeted
toward achieving a desired result. For example, where stimulation of a nerve causes the tongue
to move only partially away from the patient's airway, additional stimulation may be desired.
Because the tongue has moved away from the airway, however, implant unit 1 10 may be closer
to external unit 120 and, therefore, the degree of coupling may have increased. As a result, to
move the tongue a remaining distance to a desired location may require transfer to implant unit 1
10 of a smaller amount of power than what was supplied prior to the last stimulation-induced
movement of the tongue. Thus, based on a newly determined degree of coupling, processor 144
can select new parameters for the stimulation control signal aimed at moving the tongue the
remaining distance to the desired location.
[000127]     In one mode of operation, processor 144 may sweep over a range of parameter values
until nerve modulation is achieved. For example, in circumstances where an applied sub
modulation control signal results in feedback indicating that nerve modulation is appropriate,
processor 144 may use the last applied sub-modulation control signal as a starting point for
generation of the modulation control signal. The amplitude and/or pulse duration (or other
parameters) associated with the signal applied to primary antenna 150 may be iteratively
increased by predetermined amounts and at a predetermined rate until the feedback indicates that
nerve modulation has occurred.
[000128]     Processor 144 may determine or derive various physiologic data based on the
determined degree of coupling between primary antenna 150 and secondary antenna 152. For
example, in some embodiments the degree of coupling may indicate a distance between external
unit 120 and implant unit 110, which processor 144 may use to determine a position of external
unit 120 or a relative position of a patient's tongue. Monitoring the degree of coupling can also
provide such physiologic data as whether a patient's tongue is moving or vibrating (e.g, whether
the patient is snoring), by how much the tongue is moving or vibrating, the direction of motion
of the tongue, the rate of motion of the tongue, etc.
[000129]     In response to any of these determined physiologic data, processor 144 may regulate
delivery of power to implant unit 1 10 based on the determined physiologic data. For example,

                                                  40
processor 144 may select parameters for a particular modulation control signal or series of
modulation control signals for addressing a specific condition relating to the determined
physiologic data, if the physiologic data indicates that the tongue is vibrating, for example,
processor 144 may determine that a sleep apnea event is likely to occur and may issue a response
by delivering power to implant unit 110 in an amount selected to address the particular situation.
If the tongue is in a position blocking the patient's airway (or partially blocking a patient's
airway), but the physiologic data indicates that the tongue is moving away from the airway,
processor 144 may opt to not deliver power and wait to determine if the tongue clears on its own.
Alternatively, processor 144 may deliver a small amount of power to implant unit 110 (e.g.,
especially where a determined rate of movement indicates that the tongue is moving slowly away
from the patient's airway) to encourage the tongue to continue moving away from the patient's
airway or to speed its progression away from the airway. The scenarios described are exemplary
only. Processor 144 may be configured with software and/or logic enabling it to address a variety
of different physiologic scenarios with particularity. In each case, processor 144 may use the
physiologic data to determine an amount of power to be delivered to implant unit 110 in order to
modulate nerves associated with the tongue with the appropriate amount of energy.
[000130]     The disclosed embodiments may be used in conjunction with a method for regulating
delivery of power to an implant unit. The method may include determining a degree of coupling
between primary antenna 150 associated with external unit 120 and secondary antenna 152
associated with implant unit 1 10, implanted in the body of a patient. Determining the degree of
coupling may be accomplished by processor 144 located external to implant unit 110 and that
may be associated with external unit 120. Processor 144 may regulate delivery of power from the
external unit to the implant unit based on the determined degree of coupling.
[000131]     As previously discussed, the degree of coupling determination may enable the
processor to further determine a location of the implant unit. The motion of the implant unit may
correspond to motion of the body part where the implant unit may be attached. This may be
considered physiologic data received by the processor. The processor may, accordingly, regulate
delivery of power from the power source to the implant unit based on the physiologic data. In
alternative embodiments, the degree of coupling determination may enable the processor to
determine information pertaining to a condition of the implant unit. Such a condition may
include location as well as information pertaining to an internal state of the implant unit. The
processor may, according to the condition of the implant unit, regulate delivery of power from
the power source to the implant unit based on the condition data.

                                                  41
[000132]     In some embodiments, implant unit 110 may include a processor located on the
implant. A processor located on implant unit 110 may perform all or some of the processes
described with respect to the at least one processor associated with an external unit. For example,
a processor associated with implant unit 110 may receive a control signal prompting the implant
controller to turn on and cause a modulation signal to be applied to the implant electrodes for
modulating a nerve. Such a processor may also monitor various sensors associated with the
implant unit and to transmit this Information back to and external unit. Power for the processor
unit may be supplied by an onboard power source or received via transmissions from an external
unit.
[000133]     In other embodiments, implant unit 110 may be self-sufficient, including its own
power source and a processor configured to operate the implant unit 110 with no external
interaction. For example, with a suitable power source, the processor of implant unit 110 could
monitor conditions in the body of a subject (via one or more sensors or other means),
determining when those conditions warrant modulation of a nerve, and generate a signal to the
electrodes to modulate a nerve. The power source could be regenerative based on movement or
biological function; or the power sources could be periodically rechargeable from an external
location, such as, for example, through induction.
[000134]     Other embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the
art from consideration of the specification and practice of the present disclosure.
[000135]     Additional aspects of the are described in the following numbered paragraphs, which
are part of the description of exemplary embodiments of the disclosed principles. Each numbered
paragraph stands on its own as a separate embodiment.

                                                  42
CLAIMS:
1.           An implantable device for treating sleep apnea in a subject, the device, comprising:
             a carrier configured for implantation in a region of a genioglossus muscle;
             an implantable circuit associated with the carrier, the implantable circuit being
configured to stimulate a hypoglossal nerve and thereby modulate a genioglossus muscle;
             an antenna arranged on the carrier and configured to wirelessly receive energy from a
location external to a body of the subject and to provide at least a portion of the energy to the
implantable circuit;
             at least one component associated with the carrier for receiving energy from the
implantable circuit; and
             wherein the implantable circuit and the antenna have an internal resonant frequency
mismatched from an external resonant frequency of an external circuit, to account for resonance
frequency variation as a result of implantation in the subject's body.
2.           The implantable device of claim 1 , wherein the carrier is flexible.
3.           The implantable device of claim 1 , further including at least one pair of modulation
electrodes arranged on the carrier.
4.           The implantable device of claim 1 , wherein an amount of mismatch between the
internal resonant frequency and the external resonant frequency depends on a capacitance
associated with the implantable circuit.
5.           The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the implantable circuit includes at least
one trimming capacitor to enable changing of the capacitance associated with the implantable
circuit.
6.           The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the implantable circuit includes a
plurality of capacitors that may be selectively connected to the implantable circuit in order to
provide the capacitance associated with the implantable circuit.
7.           The implantable device of claim 6, wherein the capacitance associated with the
implantable circuit is provided by a subset of the plurality of capacitors.

                                                  43
8.           The implantable device of claim 6, wherein at least one of the plurality of capacitors
does not contribute to the capacitance associated with the implantable circuit.
9.           The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the capacitance associated with the
implantable circuit is set prior to implantation of the implantable device in the subject's body.
10.          The implantable device of claim 4, wherein a desired capacitance to be associated
with the implantable circuit is determined through simulation based on an expected value of the
resonance frequency variation.
11.          The implantable device of claim 4, wherein a desired capacitance to be associated
with the implantable circuit is determined based on at least one of the following parameters: a
placement location of the implantable device in the subject's body, an amount of energy required
to modulate a nerve, a type of electronics present on the implantable circuit, and an estimation of
moisture incursion into a capsule encapsulating the implantable device.
12.          The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the capacitance associated with the
implantable circuit is set prior to encapsulation of the implantable device.
13.          The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the capacitance associated with the
implantable circuit is determined such that when the implantable device is implanted in the
subject's body, a difference between the internal resonant frequency of the implantable circuit
and the external resonant frequency of the external circuit is no more than 30% of the external
resonant frequency.
14.          The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the capacitance associated with the
implantable circuit is determined such that when the implantable device is implanted in a body of
a subject, energy is transferred between the external circuit and the implantable circuit at an
energy transfer efficiency of at least 50%.
15.          The implantable device of claim 1 , wherein the resonance frequency variation
includes a change in internal resonant frequency of the implantable circuit from about 8.1 kHz to
about 7.9 kHz.
16.         A unit configured for implantation in a subject's body, comprising:

                                                  44
             a carrier;
             an implantable circuit associated with the carrier and having an adjustable
capacitance;
             an antenna arranged on the carrier and configured to wirelessly receive energy from a
location external to the subject's body and to transfer at least a portion of the received energy to
the implantable circuit;
             at least one component associated with the carrier and configured to receive at least
some of the energy transferred to the implantable circuit; and wherein an internal resonant
frequency of the implantable circuit is selectively set by varying the adjustable capacitance of the
implantable circuit prior to implantation of the unit in the subject's body, to cause a resonant
frequency offset between the internal resonant frequency of the implantable circuit and an
external resonant frequency of an external circuit configured to be located external to the body of
the subject.
17.          The unit of claim 18, wherein the resonant frequency offset between the internal
resonant frequency and the external resonant frequency is used to compensate for a drift in the
internal resonant frequency of the implantable circuit expected to occur after the unit is
implanted in the subject's body.
18.          The unit of claim 18, wherein a desired value of the resonant frequency offset to be
provided between the internal resonant frequency and the external resonant frequency is
determined through simulation based on an expected value of the drift in the internal resonant
frequency.
19.           The unit of claim 16, wherein a value of the resonant frequency offset is such that
when the unit is implanted in the subject's body, a difference between the internal resonant
frequency of the implantable circuit and the external resonant frequency of the external circuit is
no more than 30% of the external resonant frequency.
20.          The unit of claim 16, wherein a value of the resonant frequency offset is such that
when the unit is implanted in the body of the subject, energy is transferred between the external
circuit and the implantable circuit at an energy transfer efficiency of at least 50%.
21.          A method for manufacturing an implant unit to be implanted in the body of a subject,
the method comprising:

                                                  45
             determining a desired initial resonant frequency for an antenna and implantable
circuit associated with the implant unit based on an expected resonance variation of the internal
resonant frequency as a result of implantation of the implant unit in the body of the subject and
based on an external resonant frequency of an external circuit configured to transfer energy to
the implantable circuit from a location outside of the subject's body; and
             adjusting at least one capacitance associated with the implantable circuit to
selectively set the internal resonant frequency of the antenna and the implantable circuit to the
desired initial resonant frequency.
22.          A unit configured for implantation in a subject's body, comprising:
             a carrier;
             an implantable circuit associated with the carrier;
             an antenna arranged on the carrier and configured to wirelessly receive energy from a
location external to the subject's body and to provide at least a portion of the energy to the
implantable circuit;
             at least one component associated with the carrier for receiving energy from the
implantable circuit; and
             wherein the implantable circuit and the antenna have an internal resonant frequency
mismatched from an external resonant frequency of an external circuit, to account for resonance
frequency variation as a result of implantation in the subject's body.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
