                                     ABSTRACT
An intraocular lens (IOL) formed from a soft, foldable material, has an optic and a
peripheral rim. The optic has an anterior optical surface having a first base curvature
and a posterior optical surface having a second base curvature. A diameter of the
posterior optical surface is greater than a diameter of the anterior optical surface.
The first and second base curvatures collectively define an optical power of the optic.
The peripheral rim extends between the anterior optical surface and the posterior
optical surface and intersects each surface at a respective corner. The peripheral rim
defines a cross section having a continuously curving outer edge having a constant
radius and that does not include any tangents parallel to an optical axis of the optic.

              EDGE DESIGN FOR REDUCING PHOTIC EFFECTS IN
                                INTRAOCULAR LENSES
          The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
  Application No. 2013356553, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
  reference.
  TECHNICAL FIELD
          This invention relates generally to the field of intraocular lenses and, more
  particularly, to an edge design for reducing unwanted photic effects in intraocular
  lenses.
  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          The human eye in its simplest terms functions to provide vision by transmitting
  light through a clear outer portion called the cornea, and focusing the image by way of
  a crystalline lens onto a retina. The quality of the focused image depends on many
  factors including the size and shape of the eye, and the transparency of the cornea
  and the lens. When age or disease causes the lens to become less transparent, vision
  deteriorates because of the diminished light which can be transmitted to the retina.
  This deficiency in the lens of the eye is medically known as a cataract. An accepted
  treatment for this condition is surgical removal of the lens and replacement of the lens
  function by an artificial intraocular lens (IOL). In the United States, the majority of
  cataractous lenses are removed by a surgical technique called phacoemulsification.
  During this procedure, an opening is made in the anterior capsule and a thin
  phacoemulsification cutting tip is inserted into the diseased lens and ultrasonically
  vibrated. The vibrating cutting tip liquefies or emulsifies the lens so that the lens may
  be aspirated out of the eye. The diseased lens, once removed, is replaced by an IOL.
5         A known difficulty for intraocular lenses has been that off-axis light rays can be
  reflected or transmitted into the visual field, producing undesirable photic effects. Edge
  designs for IOLs have been proposed to steer the unwanted light rays to different
  locations, but depending on the incident angle of the incoming light, this may not
  address the problem sufficiently and may inadvertently create new photic effects. The
0 problems may be exacerbated in thin lens designs that use particular edge shapes for
                                                 1

  mechanical stability. There accordingly remains a need to reduce these undesired
  photic effects.
            A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior
  art, is not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or
  that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the
  priority date of any of the claims.
            Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
  ''comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
  interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
  components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers,
  steps or components.
  SUMMARY
          The present invention provides an intraocular lens (IOL) formed from a soft,
  foldable material, the IOL comprising: an optic having an anterior optical surface
  having a first base curvature and a posterior optical surface having a second base
  curvature, wherein: a diameter of the posterior optical surface is greater than a
  diameter of the anterior optical surface; and the first and second base curvatures
  collectively define an optical power of the optic; and a peripheral rim extending
  between the anterior optical surface and the posterior optical surface and intersecting
  each surface at a respective corner, the peripheral rim defining a cross section having
  a continuously curving outer edge having a constant radius and that does not include
  any tangents parallel to an optical axis of the optic.
           In some embodiments, the first base curvature is the same as the second base
  curvature. In other embodiments, the first base curvature is different than the second
5 base curvature.
           In some embodiments, the optic is a monofocal refractive optic. The optic may
  be toric, aspheric or both.
           In some embodiments, at least a portion of the peripheral rim is textured. In
  some embodiments, at least a portion of the anterior optical surface is textured.
0 Furthermore, in some embodiments, at least a portion of the posterior optical surface is
  textured.
                                               la

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Various embodiments of the present invention provide shaped edges
   for IOLs to reduce photic effects.      In particular embodiments, an anterior
 5 surface of the IOL is formed with a continuously curving edge that redirects
   transmitted and reflected off-axis light to reduce negative visual effects.     In
   certain embodiments, a continuously curving edge may also be employed in
   conjunction with a thickened periphery to allow for improved mechanical
   stability in relatively thin lenses. Further feature and advantages of various
10 embodiments will be apparent from the following detailed description.
            Foldable IOL designs using a thickened rim for improved mechanical
   stability are disclosed, for example, in United States Patent Application
   Publication No. 2009/0088842, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Such designs may include a recessed surface on the anterior and/or posterior
15 face of the lens around an edge of the optic, thereby reducing the overall bulk
   of the optic. The recessed surface is in turn surrounded by the thickened rim
   attached to the haptics, providing additional mechanical stability to prevent the
   optic from buckling or tilting. The interaction between the rim and incoming
   off-axis light rays can produce unwanted photic effects that can deteriorate
20 visual quality for the IOL patient.      Various embodiments of the present
   invention provide an improved edge design for such IOLs that reduces these
   unwanted photic effects.
            FIGURE 1 illustrates an example IOL 10 according to a particular
   embodiment of the present invention. IOL 10 is formed from as a single-piece
25 from a soft, foldable, biocompatible material of any of the numerous such
   materials known by those skilled in the art, including by not limited to silicone,
   hydrogel and soft acrylic materials that may also include compounds to
   absorb specific wavelength ranges of light (such as ultraviolet light). In the
   depicted embodiment, IOL 10 includes optic 12 and haptics 14.            Optic 12
30 refers to the central region of the IOL 10 that is configured to focus incoming
   light onto the retina to provide vision to the patient. The optical axis of the
   optic 12 corresponds to the direction of parallel light rays from a distant object
                                            2

   that are focused by the optic 12. The optical surface of the optic is defined as
   the region having a base curvature determining the optical power of the optic,
   with the outer boundary of this optical zone defining an edge thickness of the
   optic ("thickness" in this context referring to a thickness along the optical axis).
 5 The diameter of the optical surface is preferably in the range of 4.5-7.0 mm,
   corresponding to an ordinary range of pupil diameters in patients.
           In the depicted embodiment, optic 12 is depicted as a monofocal
   refractive optic with a radius of curvature determining the optical power of the
   optic 12. In principle, however, optic 12 could have any suitable structure for
10 focusing light onto the retina, which may include diffractive or refractive
   elements.    Optic 12 may also include suitable modifications for correcting
   monochromatic or chromatic aberrations (including but not limited to spherical
   aberrations of any order, coma, astigmatism), including such means as toric
   or aspheric optical surfaces. Hence, it should be apparent to one skilled in
15 the art that any number of known optical designs for IOLs can be included in
   various embodiments of the present invention.
           IOL 10 is depicted as an IOL typically implanted in the capsular bag,
   but various embodiments of the present invention could include phakic IOLs
   placed in the anterior chamber of the eye or sulcus-fixated lenses for the
20 posterior chamber. Haptics 14 can include any mechanical support structure
   for the IOL that maintains the IOL in place in the appropriate anatomical
   location. The haptics 14 shown in the depicted embodiment are typical for
   placement in the capsular bag, but one skilled in the art will be aware of
   numerous other modifications to the depicted structure. The haptics 14 are
25 shown as being formed integrally with the rest of the IOL 10, but they could
   also be separate pieces attached to the periphery of the IOL 10.
           Rim 30 is a thickened outermost periphery of the IOL 10 integrally
   formed with optic 12 that is joined to the haptics 14 and that provides
   mechanical stability for the optic 12 when the IOL 10 is in place. The rim 30 is
30 connected to a reduced thickness region relative to the edge of the optical
   surface (where thickness is measured along the optical axis of the IOL 10)
   that surrounds the optical surface. The rim 30 is thickened relative to this
                                              3

   reduced thickness region.       In order to provide an advantageously thin IOL
   profile, the rim should have a thickness of 0.3 mm or less relative to an
   expected optic thickness of 0.19 mm - 0.45 mm with the reduced thickness
   region being 0.1 mm thick or less. However, depending on the optical power
 5 requirements of the lens, much thicker lenses may be required, so that the rim
   30 and the reduced thickness region of the optic 12 could be thicker while still
   allowing the optic 12 to remain stable with a relatively smaller thickness than if
   the rim 30 were not present.
           FIGURE 2 shows a cross-sectional view of a particular embodiment of
10 an IOL 100 with a continuously curving outer edge, with the cross section
   taken along line A-A of FIGURE 1. The outer edge 102 faces outwardly from
   the optical axis, and it extends between the anterior surface 104 and the
   posterior surface 106 of the IOL, meeting the respective surfaces 104 and 106
   at corners, which may be sharp discontinuities or somewhat more gradual
15 reversals of the profile of the surface long the optical axis. The outer edge
   102 is "continuously curving," which is to say that it does not include any
   tangents parallel to the optical axis either along its length or at the intersection
   of the outer edge 102 with either of the surfaces 104 and 106.          In particular
   embodiments, the radius of curvature of the continuously curving outer edge
20 102 may be constant and relatively gradual, such as 0.8 mm.                 In other
   embodiments, the radius of curvature of the continuously curving outer edge
   may be relatively steep, such as 1.19 mm.        By presenting a relatively large
   surface area to incoming light without any consistent surface orientation, the
   continuously curving edge thereby prevents any substantial transmission of
25 off-axis light through the edge to any particular location as well as distributing
   internally reflected light away from the fovea of the retina. The combination of
   these features thus reduced undesired photic phenomena.
           Advantageously, the continuously curving edge may also be configured
   to direct light to particular locations. For example, a first portion of the outer
30 edge 102 may have a configuration (orientation and curvature) to reflect
   internal light rays to a location within the body of the optic 12, while a second
   portion of the outer edge 102 may have a curvature such that it reflects
                                             4

   incoming light rays outside of, and generally posterior to, the body of the optic
   12. This combination helps to redirect off-axis light away from the visual field.
   Additionally, the outer edge 102 and/or the periphery of the anterior and/or
   posterior surfaces 104 and 106 may be textured, coated, or the like to diffuse
 5 or absorb incoming light to some degree, which can further reduce unwanted
   photic effects.
            In the depicted embodiment of FIGURE 2, the reduced thickness
   region around the optic 12 is formed by a recess in the anterior surface 104
   outside of the optical surface of the optic 12, while the posterior surface 106
10 has a continuous curvature until the corner at which the posterior surface 106
   intersects the outer edge 102. In combination with the features of the outer
   edge 102, this facilitates the ability of the outer edge 102 to redirect light away
   from the visual field. FIGURE 3 shows an alternative embodiment in which
   both the anterior surface 108 and the posterior surface 110 are both recessed
15 to form the reduced thickness region.          Relative to a flat outer edge, the
   continuously curving outer edge 102 will still produce reduced photic effects,
   but the recessed posterior surface 110 may tend to direct light rays closer to
   the fovea, which can make photic effects more significant relative to the
   embodiment shown in FIGURE 2.            However, the continuously curving edge
20 design can still provide improved performance under these circumstances.
            In the depicted embodiment of FIGURE 2, the anterior surface 104 of
   the IOL meets the peripheral rim 102 at a sharp discontinuity.          FIGURE 4
   illustrates an alternative embodiment in which the anterior surface 104 of the
   peripheral rim 102, having the same maximum thickness, includes a flat,
25 anterior-facing surface meeting the reduced thickness region. As in the case
   of FIGURE 3, there may be additional photic effects associated with the flat
   portion of the anterior surface, such as transmission of off-axis light rays, but
   these effects will nonetheless be mitigated to some extent by the continuously
   curving outer edge.
30         Those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various
   changes can be made to the above embodiments without departing from the
   scope of the invention.
                                              5

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1.     An intraocular lens (IOL) formed from a soft, foldable material, the IOL
comprising:
        an optic having an anterior optical surface having a first base curvature and a
posterior optical surface having a second base curvature, wherein:
               a diameter of the posterior optical surface is greater than a diameter of
the anterior optical surface; and
               the first and second base curvatures collectively define an optical
power of the optic; and
        a peripheral rim extending between the anterior optical surface and the
posterior optical surface and intersecting each surface at a respective corner, the
peripheral rim defining a cross section having a continuously curving outer edge
having a constant radius and that does not include any tangents parallel to an optical
axis of the optic.
        2.     The IOL of Claim 1, wherein the first base curvature is the same as the
second base curvature.
        3.     The IOL of Claim 1, wherein the first base curvature is different than
the second base curvature.
        4.     The IOL of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the optic is a monofocal
refractive optic.
        5.     The IOL of Claim 4, wherein the optic is toric, aspheric or both.
        6.     The IOL of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein at least a portion of the
peripheral rim is textured.
        7.     The IOL of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein at least a portion of the
anterior optical surface is textured.
                                            6

       8.      The IOL of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein at least a portion of the
posterior optical surface is textured.
                                          7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
