                                             ABSTRACT
          MESOTHELIN DOMAIN-SPECIFIC MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES AND
                                           USE THEREOF
        Described herein is the use of rabbit hybridoma technology, along with a panel of truncated
mesothelin domain fragments, to identify anti-mesothelin mAbs that bind specific regions of
mesothelin. In one aspect of the present disclosure, the rabbit mAbs bind an epitope that is not part
of Region I. In particular, the identified mAbs (YP187, YP223, YP218 and YP3) bind either
Region 11 (391-486), Region III (487-581) or a native conformation of mesothelin with
subnanomolar affinity. These antibodies do not compete for binding with the mesothelin-specific
immunotoxin SS1P or mesothelin-specific antibody MORAb-009. In another aspect, disclosed is a
high-affinity rabbit mAb that binds Region I of mesothelin (YP158). YP158 binds native
mesothelin protein in cancer cells and tissues with high affinity and specificity.
                                                     -64-

           MESOTHELIN DOMAIN-SPECIFIC MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES AND
                                             USE THEREOF
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/691,719, filed
August 21, 2012 and Australian patent application 2013306076 filed 16 August 2013, which are
both herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                                  FIELD
          This disclosure concerns monoclonal antibodies specific for mesothelin, particularly
monoclonal antibodies raised against fragments of mesothelin, and their use for the diagnosis and
treatment of cancer.
                                             BACKGROUND
          Human mesothelin is a 40 kDa cell-surface glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked
glycoprotein. The protein is synthesized as a 70 kD precursor which is then proteolytically
processed. The 30 kD amino terminus of mesothelin is secreted and is referred to as
megakaryocyte potentiating factor (Yamaguchi et al., J Biol. Chem. 269:805 808, 1994). The 40
kD carboxyl terminus remains bound to the membrane as mature mesothelin (Chang et al., Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 93:136 140, 1996).
          Mesothelin is present at relatively low levels in mesothelial cells of the pleura, peritoneum
and pericardium of healthy individuals, but is highly expressed in a number of different cancers,
including mesotheliomas, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinomas, prostate cancer, pancreatic
cancer, lung cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer and ovarian cancer (Hassan et al., Clin.
CancerRes. 10:3937-3942, 2004; McGuire et al., N. Engl. J Med. 334:1-6, 1996; Argani et al.,
Clin. CancerRes. 7:3862-3868, 2001; Hassan et al., Appl. Immunohistochem. Mol. Morphol.
13:243-247, 2005; Li et al., Mol. Cancer Ther. 7:286-296, 2008; Yu et al., J Cancer 1:141-1749,
2010; Tchou et al., Breast Cancer Res Treat 133(2):799-804, 2012; U.S. Patent No. 7,081,518). In
particular, it has been reported that a majority of serous carcinomas of the ovary and
adenocarcinomas of the pancreas express high levels of mesothelin (Yen et al., Clin. CancerRes.
12:827-831, 2006). In addition, high levels of mesothelin have been detected in greater than 55%
3598387vl

of lung cancers and greater than 70% of ovarian cancers (Hassan et al., Appl. Immunohistochem.
Mol. Morphol. 13:243-247, 2005; Ho et al., Clin. Cancer Res. 13(5):1571-1575, 2007). The
limited expression of mesothelin on normal cells makes it a viable target for tumor immunotherapy.
          Mesothelin can also be used as a marker for diagnosis and prognosis of certain types of
cancer because trace amounts of mesothelin can be detected in the blood of some patients with
mesothelin-positive cancers (Cristaudo et al., Clin. CancerRes. 13:5076-5081, 2007). It has been
reported that mesothelin may be released into serum through deletion at its carboxyl terminus or by
proteolytic cleavage from its membrane bound form (Hassan et al., Clin. Cancer Res. 10:393 7
3942, 2004). An increase in the soluble form of mesothelin was detectable several years before
malignant mesotheliomas occurred among workers exposed to asbestos (Creaney and Robinson,
Hematol. Oncol. Clin. North Am. 19:1025-1040, 2005). Furthermore, patients with ovarian,
pancreatic, and lung cancers also have elevated soluble mesothelin in serum (Cristaudo et al., Clin.
CancerRes. 13:5076-5081, 2007; Hassan et al., Clin. CancerRes. 12:447-453, 2006; Croso et al.,
CancerDetect. Prev. 30:180-187, 2006).
                                             SUMMARY
          Disclosed herein is a panel of monoclonal antibodies that bind with high affinity to full
length mesothelin and/or mesothelin fragments. The antibodies provided herein include
immunoglobulin molecules, such as IgG antibodies, as well as antibody fragments. Further
provided are compositions including the antibodies that bind, for example specifically bind, to
mesothelin, nucleic acid molecules encoding these antibodies, expression vectors comprising the
nucleic acid molecules, and isolated host cells that express the nucleic acid molecules. Also
provided are immunoconjugates comprising the antibodies disclosed herein and an effector
molecule, such as a toxin.
          The antibodies and compositions provided herein can be used for a variety of purposes,
such as for confirming the diagnosis of a cancer that expresses mesothelin, for example
mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic
cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer. Thus, provided herein is a method of
confirming the diagnosis of cancer in a subject by contacting a sample from the subject diagnosed
with cancer with a monoclonal antibody that binds mesothelin, and detecting binding of the
antibody to the sample. An increase in binding of the antibody to the sample relative to binding of
                                                  -2
3598387vl

the antibody to a control sample confirms the cancer diagnosis. In some embodiments, the method
further includes contacting a second antibody that specifically recognizes the mesothelin-specific
antibody with the sample, and detecting binding of the second antibody.
          Similarly, provided herein is a method of detecting a cancer that expresses mesothelin in a
subject. The method includes contacting a sample from the subject with a monoclonal antibody
described herein, and detecting binding of the antibody to the sample. An increase in binding of
the antibody to the sample relative to a control sample detects cancer in the subject. In some
embodiments, the methods further comprise contacting a second antibody that specifically
recognizes the mesothelin-specific antibody with the sample, and detecting binding of the second
antibody.
          Further provided is a method of treating a subject with cancer, for example mesothelioma,
prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer,
cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer, by selecting a subject with a cancer that
expresses mesothelin and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
monoclonal antibody specific for mesothelin, or an immunoconjugate comprising the antibody.
          Also provided is a method for inhibiting tumor growth or metastasis in a subject by
selecting a subject with a cancer that expresses mesothelin and administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of an antibody, immunoconjugate or composition disclosed herein.
          The foregoing and other objects, features, and advantages of the invention will become
more apparent from the following detailed description, which proceeds with reference to the
accompanying figures.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          FIG. 1 is a schematic of the structure of mesothelin. Current anti-mesothelin therapeutic
antibodies and immunotoxins (including SSIP and MORAb-009) recognize epitopes within the
highly immunogenic N-terminal Region I of cell surface mesothelin, which also binds mucin
MUC16/CA125.
          FIGS. 2A-2D are graphs showing characterization of domain-specific rabbit monoclonal
antibodies (mAbs) by ELISA. ELISA plates were coated with 5 pg/mL of full-length mesothelin
(Full), Region I (residues 296-390), Region II (residues 391-486) and Region III (residues 487
                                                    -3
3598387vl

598) fragments. Rabbit hybridoma supernatants of Region I mAb clones (FIG. 2A), Region II mAb
clones (FIG. 2B), Region III mAb clones (FIG. 2C) and conformation-sensitive mAb clones (FIG.
2D) were added into the ELISA plates and rabbit mAb binding to mesothelin or its fragments was
detected by a goat anti-rabbit IgG light chain-specific HRP conjugate.
          FIGS. 3A-3D are flow cytometry plots showing binding of rabbit mAbs to the NCI-H226
(mesothelioma) cell line. NCI-H226 cells (1 x 106) were incubated with rabbit hybridoma
supernatant (1:2 dilutions in FACS buffer) of Region I binders (FIG. 3A), confirmation-sensitive
binders (FIG. 3D), Region III binders (FIG. 3C) and Region II binders (FIG. 3D). The binding of
rabbit mAbs to cell surface mesothelin was detected by a goat anti-rabbit IgG PE conjugate.
          FIG. 4 is a graph showing results of a sandwich ELISA evaluating binding of YP1 87,
YP223, YP218 and YP3 at various dilutions to mesothelin fragments in the presence of the SSIP
immunotoxin. ELISA plates were coated with the SS 1P immunotoxin (I          tg/ml). Recombinant
mesothelin protein (I ptg/ml) was added to the plates. After washing, rabbit mAb supernatant
(serially diluted 1:3) was added. Finally, goat anti-rabbit IgG light chain HRP conjugate (1:5000)
was added to detect rabbit mAb binding.
          FIG. 5 is a graph showing results of a sandwich ELISA evaluating binding of YP187,
YP223, YP218 and YP3 (in the presence of SS IP inmunotoxin) to recombinant mesothelin at
various concentrations. The SS IP immunotoxin (5 p.g/ml) was coated on ELISA plates.
Recombinant mesothelin protein, starting from 10 tg/ml, was serially diluted 1:3 and added to the
ELISA plates. After washing, rabbit mAb supernatant (1:5) was added. The goat anti-rabbit IgG
light chain (1:5000) HRP conjugate was added to detect rabbit mAb binding.
          FIGS. 6A-6C are graphs showing mesothelin binding affinity (KD) measurement by ELISA.
Various amounts of a rabbit mAbs YP223 (FIG. 6A), YP218 (FIG. 6B) and YP3 (FIG. 6C) were
incubated with a fixed amount of mesothelin (1 pg/ml) at room temperature for 1 hour. The plates
were then washed and a standard ELISA procedure was carried out to measure rabbit mAb binding
on mesothelin. The affinity KD value was determined by Prism (version 3.02) for Windows
(GraphPad software, San Diego, CA). KD values were 0.65 nM, 0.91 nM and 0.42 nM for YP223,
YP218 and YP3, respectively.
          FIGS. 7A-7B are graphs showing detection of soluble mesothelin in culture supernatant by
sandwich ELISA. ELISA plates were coated with SS IP (5 [ig/ml). H9 (FIG. 7A) or K5 (FIG. 7B)
culture supernatant (serially diluted 1:3) was added. After washing, rabbit mAb culture supernatant
                                                   -4
3598387v1

(1:5) was added. Goat anti-rabbit light chain specific HRP conjugate (1:5000) was used to detect
rabbit mAb binding.
          FIGS. 8A and 8B are inmunoblots showing binding of YP158 to mesothelin in cancer
cells and tissues. (FIG. 8A) Immunoblot analysis of mesothelin proteins in human liver cancer cell
lines. Forty pg of whole cell lysate was loaded for each sample except A431 and H9 (only 2 pLg of
total protein was loaded). (FIG. 8B) Immunoblot analysis of mesothelin proteins in cancer
specimens. OVCAR3 (a human ovarian cancer cell line) and H9 (A43 1 .MSLN+) were used as
positive controls. A431 (MSLN-) was used as a negative control. MSLN: mesothelin (~40 kDa);
Precursor: -70 kDa.
          FIG. 9 shows immunoprecipitation of endogenous mesothelin protein in A43 1/H9 (forced
expression of mesothelin in epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells), NCI-H226 (mesothelioma) and
KMBC (cholangiocarcinoma) cell extracts. A human mAb (hAb) to mesothelin was used to pull
down endogenous mesothelin protein in the cell lysate. YP158 was used to probe native
mesothelin in pulldown proteins. C: an irrelevant VH single-domain human Fc fusion; IP:
immunoprecipitation; Input: western blot on whole cell lysates before inimunoprecipitation.
          FIG. 10 is a graph showing detection of soluble mesothelin in the presence of SSIP
immunotoxin. This assay utilized YP223 (Region II binder) and YP218 (Region III binder) in a
sandwich ELISA. Soluble mesothelin was detected even in the presence of SS1P ininiunotoxin.
          FIG. 11 is a graph showing the binding affinity of anti-mesothelin immunotoxins against
mesothelin expressing cells. The binding of immunotoxins on these cell lines was measured by
flow cytometry and indicated by fluorescence intensity. hYP218scFv-PE38 is humanized
YP218scFv-PE38. The binding affinity of humanized YP218 Fv for H9 cells is similar to that of
the original rabbit YP218 Fv (Kd =       4nM).
          FIG. 12 is a series of graphs showing cytotoxicity of YP218scFv-PE38 against four
malignant mesothelioma patient primary cell lines. Out of the four primary cell lines (RH16,
RH18, RH19 and RH21), three were sensitive to the anti-mesothelin immunotoxins. Of the three
primary lines which were sensitive (RH16, RH19 and RH21), YP218scFv-PE38 was 2- to 5-fold
more potent than SSIP.
          FIG. 13 is a graph showing that the YP2l8scFv-PE38 immunotoxin was more potent than
SSIP in a human malignant mesothelioma model. Six-week female BALB/c nu/nu mice were
intraperitoneally inoculated with 3x10 6 NCI-H226 mesothelioma cells that stably express high
                                                  -5
3598387vl

levels of Luc/GFP. Mice were intraperitoneally administered with SS1P (0.4 mg/kg), YP218scFv
PE38 (0.4 mg/kg) or vehicle (PBS) at days 12, 14, 16 and 18. Tumor growth was measured by
bioluminescence photometry three times a week. Relative bioluminescence activity was
normalized based on the control (vehicle) group. The arrows indicate injections. N=5/group.
                                       SEQUENCE LISTING
          The nucleic and amino acid sequences listed in the accompanying sequence listing are
shown using standard letter abbreviations for nucleotide bases, and three letter code for amino
acids, as defined in 37 C.F.R. 1.822. Only one strand of each nucleic acid sequence is shown, but
the complementary strand is understood as included by any reference to the displayed strand. The
Sequence Listing is submitted as an ASCII text file, created on August 14, 2013, 78.7 KB, which is
incorporated by reference herein. In the accompanying sequence listing:
          SEQ ID NO: 1 is the amino acid sequence of Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE).
          SEQ ID NO: 2 is the amino acid sequence of PE38.
          SEQ ID NO: 3 is the amino acid sequence of PE-LR.
          SEQ ID NO: 4 is the amino acid sequence of PE-LR/6X.
          SEQ ID NO: 5 is the amino acid sequence of PE with reduced immunogenicity.
          SEQ ID NO: 6 is the amino acid sequence of PE-LR/8M.
          SEQ ID NO: 7 is the amino acid sequence of human mesothelin.
          SEQ ID NO: 8 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP223 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 9 is the amino acid sequence of the YP223 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 10 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP223 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 11 is the amino acid sequence of the YP223 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 12 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP218 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 13 is the amino acid sequence of the YP218 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 14 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP218 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 15 is the amino acid sequence of the YP218 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 16 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP3 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 17 is the amino acid sequence of the YP3 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 18 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP3 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 19 is the amino acid sequence of the YP3 VL domain.
                                                 -6
3598387vl

          SEQ ID NO: 20 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP187 clone I VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 21 is the amino acid sequence of the YP187 clone 1 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 22 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP187 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 23 is the amino acid sequence of the YP187 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 24 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP158 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 25 is the amino acid sequence of the YP158 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 26 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP158 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 27 is the amino acid sequence of the YP158 VL domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 28 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP187 clone 2 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 29 is the amino acid sequence of the YP187 clone 2 VH domain.
          SEQ ID NO: 30 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP218scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 31 is the amino acid sequence of the YP218scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 32 is the nucleotide sequence of the humanized YP218scFv-PE3 8
immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 33 is the amino acid sequence of the humanized YP218scFv-PE38
immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 34 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP223scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 35 is the amino acid sequence of the YP223scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 36 is the nucleotide sequence of the YP3scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 37 is the amino acid sequence of the YP3scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 38 is the nucleotide sequence of the YPl87scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
          SEQ ID NO: 39 is the amino acid sequence of the YPI87scFv-PE38 immunotoxin.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
I.        Abbreviations
          CAR           chimeric antigen receptor
          CDR           complementarity determining region
          CTL           cytotoxic T lymphocyte
          ELISA         enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
          EM            effector molecule
          FACS          fluorescence activated cell sorting
                                                  -7
3598387vl

          GPI             glycosylphosphatidylinositol
          HRP             horseradish peroxidase
          Ig              immunoglobulin
          Kd              dissociation constant
          mAb             monoclonal antibody
          PE              Pseudomonas exotoxin
          PE              phycoerythrin
          VH              variable heavy
          VL              variable light
I.        Terms and Methods
          Unless otherwise noted, technical terms are used according to conventional usage.
Definitions of common terms in molecular biology may be found in Benjamin Lewin, Genes V,
published by Oxford University Press, 1994 (ISBN 0-19-854287-9); Kendrew et al. (eds.), The
Encyclopedia of Molecular Biology, published by Blackwell Science Ltd., 1994 (ISBN 0-632
02182-9); and Robert A. Meyers (ed.), MolecularBiology and Biotechnology: a Comprehensive
Desk Reference, published by VCH Publishers, Inc., 1995 (ISBN 1-56081-569-8).
          In order to facilitate review of the various embodiments of the disclosure, the following
explanations of specific terms are provided:
          Antibody: A polypeptide ligand comprising at least a light chain or heavy chain
immunoglobulin variable region which recognizes and binds (such as specifically recognizes and
specifically binds) an epitope of an antigen, such as mesothelin, or a fragment thereof.
Imnunoglobulin molecules are composed of a heavy and a light chain, each of which has a variable
region, termed the variable heavy (VH) region and the variable light (VL) region. Together, the VH
region and the VL region are responsible for binding the antigen recognized by the antibody.
          Antibodies include intact immunoglobulins and the variants and portions of antibodies well
known in the art, such as single-domain antibodies (e.g. VH domain antibodies), Fab fragments,
Fab' fragments, F(ab)' 2 fragments, single chain Fv proteins ("scFv"), and disulfide stabilized Fv
proteins ("dsFv"). A scFv protein is a fusion protein in which a light chain variable region of an
immunoglobulin and a heavy chain variable region of an immunoglobulin are bound by a linker,
while in dsFvs, the chains have been mutated to introduce a disulfide bond to stabilize the
                                                     -8
3598387vl

association of the chains. The term "antibody" also includes genetically engineered forms such as
chimeric antibodies (for example, humanized murine antibodies) and heteroconjugate antibodies
(such as bispecific antibodies). See also, Pierce Catalogand Handbook, 1994-1995 (Pierce
Chemical Co., Rockford, IL); Kuby, J., Immunology, 3rd Ed., W. H. Freeman & Co., New York,
1997.
          Typically, a naturally occurring immunoglobulin has heavy (H) chains and light (L) chains
interconnected by disulfide bonds. There are two types of light chain, lambda (Q) and kappa (K).
There are five main heavy chain classes (or isotypes) which determine the functional activity of an
antibody molecule: IgM, IgD, IgG, IgA and IgE.
          Each heavy and light chain contains a constant region and a variable region, (the regions are
also known as "domains"). In combination, the heavy and the light chain variable regions
specifically bind the antigen. Light and heavy chain variable regions contain a "framework" region
interrupted by three hypervariable regions, also called "complementarity-determining regions" or
"CDRs."     The extent of the framework region and CDRs has been defined according to Kabat et al.
(see, Kabat et al., Sequences ofProteinsof Immunological Interest, U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, 1991) and the ImMunoGeneTics database (IMGT) (see, Lefranc, Nucleic Acids
Res 29:207-9, 2001). The Kabat database is maintained online. The sequences of the framework
regions of different light or heavy chains are relatively conserved within a species, such as humans.
The framework region of an antibody, that is the combined framework regions of the constituent
light and heavy chains, serves to position and align the CDRs in three-dimensional space.
          The CDRs are primarily responsible for binding to an epitope of an antigen. The CDRs of
each chain are typically referred to as CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3, numbered sequentially starting
from the N-terminus, and are often identified by the chain in which the particular CDR is located.
Thus, a VH CDR3 (or H-CDR3) is located in the variable domain of the heavy chain of the antibody
in which it is found, whereas a VL CDRI (or L-CDR1) is the CDRI from the variable domain of
the light chain of the antibody in which it is found. An antibody that binds mesothelin, for
example, will have a specific VH region and the VL region sequence, and thus specific CDR
sequences. Antibodies with different specificities (i.e. different combining sites for different
antigens) have different CDRs. Although it is the CDRs that vary from antibody to antibody, only
a limited number of amino acid positions within the CDRs are directly involved in antigen binding.
These positions within the CDRs are called specificity determining residues (SDRs).
                                                  -9
3598387vl

          References to "VH" or "VH" refer to the variable region of an immunoglobulin heavy chain,
including that of an Fv, scFv, dsFv or Fab. References to "VL" or "VL" refer to the variable region
of an immunoglobulin light chain, including that of an Fv, scFv, dsFv or Fab.
          A "monoclonal antibody" is an antibody produced by a single clone of B-lymphocytes or by
a cell into which the light and/or heavy chain genes of a single antibody have been transfected.
Monoclonal antibodies are produced by methods known to those of skill in the art, for instance by
making hybrid antibody-forming cells from a fusion of myeloma cells with immune spleen cells.
Monoclonal antibodies include humanized monoclonal antibodies.
          A "chimeric antibody" contains structural elements from two or more different antibody
molecules, often from different animal species. For example, a chimeric antibody can have
framework residues from one species, such as human, and CDRs (which generally confer antigen
binding) from another species, such as a murine antibody that specifically binds mesothelin.
          A "human" antibody (also called a "fully human" antibody) is an antibody that includes
human framework regions and all of the CDRs from a human inmunoglobulin. In one example,
the framework and the CDRs are from the same originating human heavy and/or light chain amino
acid sequence. However, frameworks from one human antibody can be engineered to include
CDRs from a different human antibody. A "humanized" immunoglobulin is an immunoglobulin
including a human framework region and one or more CDRs from a non-human (for example a
mouse, rabbit, rat, or synthetic) immunoglobulin. The non-human immunoglobulin providing the
CDRs is termed a "donor," and the human immunoglobulin providing the framework is termed an
"acceptor." In one embodiment, all the CDRs are from the donor immunoglobulin in a humanized
immunoglobulin. Constant regions need not be present, but if they are, they must be substantially
identical to human immunoglobulin constant regions, i.e., at least about 85-90%, such as about
95% or more identical. Hence, all parts of a humanized immunoglobulin, except possibly the
CDRs, are substantially identical to corresponding parts of natural human immunoglobulin
sequences. A "humanized antibody" is an antibody comprising a humanized light chain and a
humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin. A humanized antibody binds to the same antigen as the
donor antibody that provides the CDRs. The acceptor framework of a humanized immunoglobulin
or antibody may have a limited number of substitutions by amino acids taken from the donor
framework. Humanized or other monoclonal antibodies can have additional conservative amino
acid substitutions which have substantially no effect on antigen binding or other immunoglobulin
                                                 - 10
3598387vl

functions. Humanized immunoglobulins can be constructed by means of genetic engineering (see
for example, U.S. Patent No. 5,585,089).
          Binding affinity: Affinity of an antibody for an antigen. In one embodiment, affinity is
calculated by a modification of the Scatchard method described by Frankel et al. (Mol. Immunol.,
16:101-106, 1979). In another embodiment, binding affinity is measured by an antigen/antibody
dissociation rate. In another embodiment, a high binding affinity is measured by a competition
radioimmunoassay. In another embodiment, binding affinity is measured by ELISA. An antibody
that "specifically binds" an antigen (such as mesothelin) is an antibody that binds the antigen with
high affinity and does not significantly bind other unrelated antigens.
          Chemotherapeutic agent: Any chemical agent with therapeutic usefulness in the
treatment of diseases characterized by abnormal cell growth. Such diseases include tumors,
neoplasms, and cancer as well as diseases characterized by hyperplastic growth such as psoriasis.
In one embodiment, a chemotherapeutic agent is an agent of use in treating mesothelioma or
another tumor, such as stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinomas, prostate cancer, pancreatic
cancer, lung cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer. In one embodiment, a
chemotherapeutic agent is a radioactive compound. One of skill in the art can readily identify a
chemotherapeutic agent of use (see for example, Slapak and Kufe, Principlesof Cancer Therapy,
Chapter 86 in Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, 14th edition; Perry et al., Chemotherapy,
Ch. 17 in Abeloff, Clinical Oncology 2 "ded., C 2000 Churchill Livingstone, Inc; Baltzer, L.,
Berkery, R. (eds.): Oncology Pocket Guide to Chemotherapy, 2nd ed. St. Louis, Mosby-Year Book,
1995; Fischer, D.S., Knobf, M.F., Durivage, H.J. (eds): The Cancer ChemotherapyHandbook, 4th
ed. St. Louis, Mosby-Year Book, 1993). Combination chemotherapy is the administration of more
than one agent to treat cancer. One example is the administration of an antibody (or
immunoconjugate) that binds mesothelin used in combination with a radioactive or chemical
compound.
          Cholangiocarcinoma: A type of cancer that develops in cells that line the bile ducts in the
liver.
          Conservative variant: "Conservative" amino acid substitutions are those substitutions that
do not substantially affect or decrease the affinity of a protein, such as an antibody to mesothelin.
For example, a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds mesothelin can include at most about 1,
at most about 2, at most about 5, at most about 10, or at most about 15 conservative substitutions
                                                  - 11
3598387vl

and specifically bind a mesothelin polypeptide. The term "conservative variant" also includes the
use of a substituted amino acid in place of an unsubstituted parent amino acid, provided that
antibody specifically binds mesothelin. Non-conservative substitutions are those that reduce an
activity or binding to mesothelin.
          Conservative amino acid substitution tables providing functionally similar amino acids are
well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The following six groups are examples of amino
acids that are considered to be conservative substitutions for one another:
          1) Alanine (A), Serine (S), Threonine (T);
          2) Aspartic acid (D), Glutamic acid (E);
          3) Asparagine (N), Glutamine (Q);
          4) Arginine (R), Lysine (K);
          5) Isoleucine (1), Leucine (L), Methionine (M), Valine (V); and
          6) Phenylalanine (F), Tyrosine (Y), Tryptophan (W).
          Complementarity determining region (CDR): Amino acid sequences which together
define the binding affinity and specificity of the natural Fv region of a native Ig binding site. The
light and heavy chains of an Ig each have three CDRs, designated L-CDR1, L-CDR2, L-CDR3 and
H-CDRI, H-CDR2, H-CDR3, respectively.
          Contacting: Placement in direct physical association; includes both in solid and liquid
form.
          Cytotoxicity: The toxicity of a molecule, such as an immunotoxin, to the cells intended to
be targeted, as opposed to the cells of the rest of an organism. In one embodiment, in contrast, the
term "toxicity" refers to toxicity of an immunotoxin to cells other than those that are the cells
intended to be targeted by the targeting moiety of the immunotoxin, and the term "animal toxicity"
refers to toxicity of the immunotoxin to an animal by toxicity of the immunotoxin to cells other
than those intended to be targeted by the immunotoxin.
          Degenerate variant: In the context of the present disclosure, a "degenerate variant" refers
to a polynucleotide encoding a mesothelin polypeptide or an antibody that binds mesothelin that
includes a sequence that is degenerate as a result of the genetic code. There are 20 natural amino
acids, most of which are specified by more than one codon. Therefore, all degenerate nucleotide
sequences are included as long as the amino acid sequence of the mesothelin polypeptide or
antibody that binds mesothelin encoded by the nucleotide sequence is unchanged.
                                                   - 12
3598387vl

           Diagnostic: Identifying the presence or nature of a pathologic condition, such as, but not
limited to, cancer. Diagnostic methods differ in their sensitivity and specificity. The "sensitivity"
of a diagnostic assay is the percentage of diseased individuals who test positive (percent of true
positives). The "specificity" of a diagnostic assay is one minus the false positive rate, where the
false positive rate is defined as the proportion of those without the disease who test positive. While
a particular diagnostic method may not provide a definitive diagnosis of a condition, it suffices if
the method provides a positive indication that aids in diagnosis. "Prognostic" is the probability of
development (e.g., severity) of a pathologic condition, such as cancer or metastasis.
           Effector molecule: The portion of a chimeric molecule that is intended to have a desired
effect on a cell to which the chimeric molecule is targeted. Effector molecule is also known as an
effector moiety (EM), therapeutic agent, or diagnostic agent, or similar terms.
           Therapeutic agents include such compounds as nucleic acids, proteins, peptides, amino
acids or derivatives, glycoproteins, radioisotopes, lipids, carbohydrates, or recombinant viruses.
Nucleic acid therapeutic and diagnostic moieties include antisense nucleic acids, derivatized
oligonucleotides for covalent cross-linking with single or duplex DNA, and triplex forming
oligonucleotides. Alternatively, the molecule linked to a targeting moiety, such as an anti
mesothelin antibody, may be an encapsulation system, such as a liposome or micelle that contains a
therapeutic composition such as a drug, a nucleic acid (such as an antisense nucleic acid), or
another therapeutic moiety that can be shielded from direct exposure to the circulatory system.
Means of preparing liposomes attached to antibodies are well known to those of skill in the art (see,
for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,957,735; and Connor et al., Pharm Ther 28:341-365, 1985).
Diagnostic agents or moieties include radioisotopes and other detectable labels. Detectable labels
useful for such purposes are also well known in the art, and include radioactive isotopes such as
  5
    S, 1 1C, "N, 15
                    O, 1F, 9F, 99"Tc, 1I, 3H, 14
                                                C,  N, 9Y, 99Tc, "'In and 1I, fluorophores,
chemiluminescent agents, and enzymes.
           Epitope: An antigenic determinant. These are particular chemical groups or peptide
sequences on a molecule that are antigenic, i.e. that elicit a specific immune response. An antibody
specifically binds a particular antigenic epitope on a polypeptide, such as mesothelin.
           Framework region: Amino acid sequences interposed between CDRs. Framework
regions include variable light and variable heavy framework regions. The framework regions serve
to hold the CDRs in an appropriate orientation for antigen binding.
                                                   - 13
3598387vl

          Host cells: Cells in which a vector can be propagated and its DNA expressed. The cell
may be prokaryotic or eukaiyotic. The term also includes any progeny of the subject host cell. It is
understood that all progeny may not be identical to the parental cell since there may be mutations
that occur during replication. However, such progeny are included when the term "host cell" is
used.
          Hybridoma: A hybrid cell for the production of monoclonal antibodies. A hybridoma is
produced by fusion of an antibody-producing cell (such as a B cell obtained from an immunized
animal, for example a mouse, rat or rabbit) and a myeloma cell.
          Immune response: A response of a cell of the immune system, such as a B cell, T cell, or
monocyte, to a stimulus. In one embodiment, the response is specific for a particular antigen (an
"antigen-specific response"). In one embodiment, an immune response is a T cell response, such as
a CD4' response or a CD8' response. In another embodiment, the response is a B cell response,
and results in the production of specific antibodies.
          Immunoconjugate: A covalent linkage of an effector molecule to an antibody or
functional fragment thereof The effector molecule can be a detectable label or an immunotoxin.
Specific, non-limiting examples of toxins include, but are not limited to, abrin, ricin, Pseudomonas
exotoxin (PE, such as PE35, PE37, PE38, and PE40), diphtheria toxin (DT), botulinum toxin, or
modified toxins thereof, or other toxic agents that directly or indirectly inhibit cell growth or kill
cells. For example, PE and DT are highly toxic compounds that typically bring about death
through liver toxicity. PE and DT, however, can be modified into a form for use as an
immunotoxin by removing the native targeting component of the toxin (such as the domain Ia of PE
and the B chain of DT) and replacing it with a different targeting moiety, such as an antibody. A
"chimeric molecule" is a targeting moiety, such as a ligand or an antibody, conjugated (coupled) to
an effector molecule. The term "conjugated" or "linked" refers to making two polypeptides into
one contiguous polypeptide molecule. In one embodiment, an antibody is joined to an effector
molecule. In another embodiment, an antibody joined to an effector molecule is further joined to a
lipid or other molecule to a protein or peptide to increase its half-life in the body. The linkage can
be either by chemical or recombinant means. In one embodiment, the linkage is chemical, wherein
a reaction between the antibody moiety and the effector molecule has produced a covalent bond
formed between the two molecules to form one molecule. A peptide linker (short peptide
sequence) can optionally be included between the antibody and the effector molecule. Because
                                                  - 14
3598387vl

immunoconjugates were originally prepared from two molecules with separate functionalities, such
as an antibody and an effector molecule, they are also sometimes referred to as "chimeric
molecules." The term "chimeric molecule," as used herein, therefore refers to a targeting moiety,
such as a ligand or an antibody, conjugated (coupled) to an effector molecule.
          Isolated: An "isolated" biological component, such as a nucleic acid, protein (including
antibodies) or organelle, has been substantially separated or purified away from other biological
components in the environment (such as a cell) in which the component naturally occurs, i.e., other
chromosomal and extra-chromosomal DNA and RNA, proteins and organelles. Nucleic acids and
proteins that have been "isolated" include nucleic acids and proteins purified by standard
purification methods. The term also embraces nucleic acids and proteins prepared by recombinant
expression in a host cell as well as chemically synthesized nucleic acids.
          Label: A detectable compound or composition that is conjugated directly or indirectly to
another molecule, such as an antibody or a protein, to facilitate detection of that molecule.
Specific, non-limiting examples of labels include fluorescent tags, enzymatic linkages, and
radioactive isotopes. In one example, a "labeled antibody" refers to incorporation of another
molecule in the antibody. For example, the label is a detectable marker, such as the incorporation
of a radiolabeled amino acid or attachment to a polypeptide of biotinyl moieties that can be
detected by marked avidin (for example, streptavidin containing a fluorescent marker or enzymatic
activity that can be detected by optical or colorimetric methods). Various methods of labeling
polypeptides and glycoproteins are known in the art and may be used. Examples of labels for
polypeptides include, but are not limited to, the following: radioisotopes or radionucleotides (such
as 35,     C, 1 N, -o, "F, 1F, 9"Tc,      , 3H, 4C, 1N, 9Y, 9Tc,    "In and  1251), fluorescent labels
(such as fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), rhodamine, lanthanide phosphors), enzymatic labels
(such as horseradish peroxidase, beta-galactosidase, luciferase, alkaline phosphatase),
chemiluminescent markers, biotinyl groups, predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a
secondary reporter (such as a leucine zipper pair sequences, binding sites for secondary antibodies,
metal binding domains, epitope tags), or magnetic agents, such as gadolinium chelates. In some
embodiments, labels are attached by spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric
hindrance.
          Linker: In some cases, a linker is a peptide within an antibody binding fragment (such as
an Fv fragment) which serves to indirectly bond the variable heavy chain to the variable light chain.
                                                  - 15
3598387vl

"Linker" can also refer to a peptide serving to link a targeting moiety, such as an antibody, to an
effector molecule, such as a cytotoxin or a detectable label.
          The terms "conjugating," "joining," "bonding" or "linking" refer to making two
polypeptides into one contiguous polypeptide molecule, or to covalently attaching a radionuclide or
other molecule to a polypeptide, such as an scFv. In the specific context, the terms include
reference to joining a ligand, such as an antibody moiety, to an effector molecule. The linkage can
be either by chemical or recombinant means. "Chemical means" refers to a reaction between the
antibody moiety and the effector molecule such that there is a covalent bond formed between the
two molecules to form one molecule.
          Lung cancer: Cancer that forms in tissues of the lung, usually in the cells lining air
passages. The two main types are small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. These
types are diagnosed based on how the cells look under a microscope.
          Mammal: This term includes both human and non-human mammals. Similarly, the term
"subject" includes both human and veterinary subjects.
          Mesothelin: A 40 kDa cell-surface glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked
glycoprotein. The human mesothelin protein is synthesized as a 69 kD precursor which is then
proteolytically processed. The 30 kD amino terminus of mesothelin is secreted and is referred to as
megakaryocyte potentiating factor (Yamaguchi et al., J Biol. Chem. 269:805 808, 1994). The 40
kD carboxyl terminus remains bound to the membrane as mature mesothelin (Chang et al., Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 93:136 140, 1996). Exemplary nucleic acid and amino acid sequences of
mesothelin are as described in PCT Publication No. WO 97/25,068; U.S. Patent No. 6,083,502;
Chang and Pastan, Int. J Cancer 57:90, 1994; Chang and Pastan, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA
93:136, 1996; Brinkmann et al., Int. J. Cancer 71:638, 1997; and Chowdhury et al., Mol. Immunol.
34:9, 1997. The amino acid sequence of human mesothelin is set forth herein as SEQ ID NO: 7.
Mesothelin also refers to mesothelin proteins or polypeptides which remain intracellular as well as
secreted and/or isolated extracellular mesothelin protein.
          Mesothelioma: A type of neoplasm derived from the lining cells of the pleura and
peritoneum which grows as a thick sheet covering the viscera, and is composed of spindle cells or
fibrous tissue which may enclose gland-like spaces lined by cuboidal cells. Mesotheliomas often
originate in the tissue lining the lung, heart or abdomen. In some cases, mesotheliomas are caused
by exposure to asbestos.
                                                   - 16
3598387vl

          MORAb-009: A chimeric (mouse/human) monoclonal IgG/K with high affinity and
specificity for mesothelin. The VH and VL regions of mouse anti-mesothelin scFv were obtained
by panning a phage display library made from splenic mRNA of a mouse immunized with
mesothelin cDNA on mesothelin-positive cells. The VH and VL regions were grafted in frame
with human IgGI and kappa constant regions (Hassan and Ho, Eur J Cancer 44(1):46-53, 2008).
          Neoplasia, malignancy, cancer or tumor: A neoplasm is an abnormal growth of tissue or
cells that results from excessive cell division. Neoplastic growth can produce a tumor. The amount
of a tumor in an individual is the "tumor burden" which can be measured as the number, volume, or
weight of the tumor. A tumor that does not metastasize is referred to as "benign." A tumor that
invades the surrounding tissue and/or can metastasize is referred to as "malignant." Examples of
hematological tumors include leukemias, including acute leukemias (such as acute lymphocytic
leukemia, acute myelocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia and myeloblastic,
promyelocytic, myelomonocytic, monocytic and erythroleukemia), chronic leukemias (such as
chronic myelocytic (granulocytic) leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and chronic
lymphocytic leukemia), polycythemia vera, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma (indolent and high grade forms), multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia,
heavy chain disease, myelodysplastic syndrome, hairy cell leukemia and myelodysplasia.
          Examples of solid tumors, such as sarcomas and carcinomas, include fibrosarcoma,
myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, and other sarcomas, synovioma,
mesothelioma, cholangiocarcinoma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, colon
carcinoma, lymphoid malignancy, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, lung cancers, ovarian cancer,
prostate cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, medullary thyroid carcinoma, papillary thyroid
carcinoma, pheochromocytomas sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary
adenocarcinomas, medullaiy carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma,
bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical cancer, testicular tumor, seminoma,
bladder carcinoma, and CNS tumors (such as a glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma,
craniopharyogioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma,
oligodendroglioma, menangioma, melanoma, neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma).
                                                 - 17
3598387vl

          In several examples, the caner is mesothelioma, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinomas,
prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian
cancer.
          Operably linked: A first nucleic acid sequence is operably linked with a second nucleic
acid sequence when the first nucleic acid sequence is placed in a functional relationship with the
second nucleic acid sequence. For instance, a promoter, such as the CMV promoter, is operably
linked to a coding sequence if the promoter affects the transcription or expression of the coding
sequence. Generally, operably linked DNA sequences are contiguous and, where necessary to join
two protein-coding regions, in the same reading frame.
          Ovarian cancer: Cancer that forms in tissues of the ovary (one of a pair of female
reproductive glands in which the ova, or eggs, are formed). Most ovarian cancers are either ovarian
epithelial carcinomas (cancer that begins in the cells on the surface of the ovary) or malignant germ
cell tumors (cancer that begins in egg cells).
          Pancreatic cancer: A disease in which malignant (cancer) cells are found in the tissues of
the pancreas. Also called exocrine cancer.
          Pharmaceutical agent: A chemical compound or composition capable of inducing a
desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect when properly administered to a subject or a cell.
          Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers: The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers of use
are conventional. Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, by E.W. Martin, Mack Publishing Co.,
Easton, PA, 15th Edition, 1975, describes compositions and formulations suitable for
pharmaceutical delivery of the antibodies disclosed herein.
          In general, the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of administration
being employed. For instance, parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that
include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water, physiological saline,
balanced salt solutions, aqueous dextrose, glycerol or the like as a vehicle. For solid compositions
(such as powder, pill, tablet, or capsule forms), conventional non-toxic solid carriers can include,
for example, pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, or magnesium stearate. In addition
to biologically neutral carriers, pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor
amounts of non-toxic auxiliary substances, such as wetting or emulsifying agents, preservatives,
and pH buffering agents and the like, for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate.
                                                     - 18
3598387vl

          Preventing, treating or ameliorating a disease: "Preventing" a disease refers to
inhibiting the full development of a disease. "Treating" refers to a therapeutic intervention that
ameliorates a sign or symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop,
such as a reduction in tumor burden or a decrease in the number of size of metastases.
"Ameliorating" refers to the reduction in the number or severity of signs or symptoms of a disease,
such as cancer.
          Prostate cancer: Cancer that forms in tissues of the prostate (a gland in the male
reproductive system found below the bladder and in front of the rectum). Prostate cancer usually
occurs in older men.
          Purified: The term purified does not require absolute purity; rather, it is intended as a
relative term. Thus, for example, a purified peptide preparation is one in which the peptide or
protein is more enriched than the peptide or protein is in its natural environment within a cell. In
one embodiment, a preparation is purified such that the protein or peptide represents at least 50% of
the total peptide or protein content of the preparation. Substantial purification denotes purification
from other proteins or cellular components. A substantially purified protein is at least 60%, 70%,
80%, 90%, 95% or 98% pure. Thus, in one specific, non-limiting example, a substantially purified
protein is 90% free of other proteins or cellular components.
          Recombinant: A recombinant nucleic acid is one that has a sequence that is not naturally
occurring or has a sequence that is made by an artificial combination of two otherwise separated
segments of sequence. This artificial combination is often accomplished by chemical synthesis or
by the artificial manipulation of isolated segments of nucleic acids, for example, by genetic
engineering techniques.
          Recombinant toxins: Chimeric proteins in which a cell targeting moiety is fused to a toxin
(Pastan et al., Science, 254:1173-1177, 1991). If the cell targeting moiety is the Fv portion of an
antibody, the molecule is termed a recombinant immunotoxin (Chaudhary et al., Nature, 339:394
397, 1989). The toxin moiety is genetically altered so that it cannot bind to the toxin receptor
present on most normal cells. Recombinant immunotoxins selectively kill cells which are
recognized by the antigen binding domain. These recombinant toxins and immunotoxins can be
used to treat cancer, for example, a cancer in which mesothelin is expressed.
          Sample (or biological sample): A biological specimen containing genomic DNA, RNA
(including mRNA), protein, or combinations thereof, obtained from a subject. Examples include,
                                                  - 19
3598387vl

but are not limited to, peripheral blood, tissue, cells, urine, saliva, tissue biopsy, fine needle
aspirate, surgical specimen, and autopsy material. In one example, a sample includes a tumor
biopsy, such as a tumor biopsy.
          Sequence identity: The similarity between amino acid or nucleic acid sequences is
expressed in terms of the similarity between the sequences, otherwise referred to as sequence
identity. Sequence identity is frequently measured in terms of percentage identity (or similarity or
homology); the higher the percentage, the more similar the two sequences are. Homologs or variants
of a polypeptide or nucleic acid molecule will possess a relatively high degree of sequence identity
when aligned using standard methods.
          Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Various
programs and alignment algorithms are described in: Smith and Waterman, Adv. Apple. Math. 2:482,
1981; Needleman and Wunsch, J. Mol. Biol. 48:443, 1970; Pearson and Lipman, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U.S.A. 85:2444, 1988; Higgins and Sharp, Gene 73:237, 1988; Higgins and Sharp, CABIOS
5:151, 1989; Corpet et al., Nucleic Acids Research 16:10881, 1988; and Pearson and Lipman, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.   85:2444, 1988. Altschul et al., Nature Genet. 6:119, 1994, presents a detailed
consideration of sequence alignment methods and homology calculations.
          The NCBI Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) (Altschul et al., J Mol. Biol.
215:403, 1990) is available from several sources, including the National Center for Biotechnology
Information (NCBI, Bethesda, MD) and on the internet, for use in connection with the sequence
analysis programs blastp, blastn, blastx, tblastn and tblastx. A description of how to determine
sequence identity using this program is available on the NCBI website on the internet.
          Homologs and variants of a VL or a VH of an antibody that specifically binds mesothelin or a
fragment thereof are typically characterized by possession of at least about 75%, for example at least
about 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% sequence identity counted over the full length
alignment with the amino acid sequence of the antibody using the NCBI Blast 2.0, gapped blastp set
to default parameters. For comparisons of amino acid sequences of greater than about 30 amino
acids, the Blast 2 sequences function is employed using the default BLOSUM62 matrix set to default
parameters, (gap existence cost of 11, and a per residue gap cost of 1). When aligning short peptides
(fewer than around 30 amino acids), the alignment should be performed using the Blast 2 sequences
function, employing the PAM30 matrix set to default parameters (open gap 9, extension gap 1
penalties). Proteins with even greater similarity to the reference sequences will show increasing
                                                  - 20
3598387vl

percentage identities when assessed by this method, such as at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%,
at least 95%, at least 98%, or at least 99% sequence identity. When less than the entire sequence is
being compared for sequence identity, honologs and variants will typically possess at least 80%
sequence identity over short windows of 10-20 amino acids, and may possess sequence identities of
at least 85% or at least 90% or 95% depending on their similarity to the reference sequence. Methods
for determining sequence identity over such short windows are available at the NCBI website on the
internet. One of skill in the art will appreciate that these sequence identity ranges are provided for
guidance only; it is entirely possible that strongly significant homologs could be obtained that fall
outside of the ranges provided.
          Squamous cell carcinoma: A malignant neoplasm derived from stratified squamous
epithelium, but which may also occur in sites such as bronchial mucosa where glandular or
columnar epithelium is normally present. Squamous cell carcinoma is the most common type of
skin cancer.
          SS1P: A recombinant immunotoxin consisting of an anti-mesothelin Fv (the same Fv as
MORAb-009) linked to a truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin that mediates cell killing (Chowdhury
and Pastan, Nat Biotechnol 17:568-572, 1999; Pastan et al., Nat Rev Cancer 6:559-565, 2006).
SS1P, also known as CAT-5001, is cytotoxic to cell lines expressing mesothelin, causes complete
regression of mesothelin expressing tumor xenografts in nude mice, and is cytotoxic to cells
obtained from human cancer patients (Hassan et al., Clin CancerRes 10:3937-3942, 2001; Hassan
et al., Clin Cancer Res 8:3520-3526, 2002).
          Stomach cancer: Cancer that forms in tissues lining the stomach. Also called gastric
cancer.
          Subject: Living multi-cellular vertebrate organisms, a category that includes both human and
veterinary subjects, including human and non-human mammals.
          Synthetic: Produced by artificial means in a laboratory, for example a monoclonal antibody
produced by hybridoma technology or expressed from a cDNA construct.
          Therapeutically effective amount: A quantity of a specific substance sufficient to achieve
a desired effect in a subject being treated. For instance, this can be the amount necessary to inhibit
or suppress growth of a tumor. In one embodiment, a therapeutically effective amount is the
amount necessary to eliminate, reduce the size, or prevent metastasis of a tumor. When
                                                   - 21
3598387vl

administered to a subject, a dosage will generally be used that will achieve target tissue
concentrations (for example, in tumors) that has been shown to achieve a desired in vitro effect.
          Toxin: A molecule that is cytotoxic for a cell. Toxins include abrin, ricin, Pseudomonas
exotoxin (PE), diphtheria toxin (DT), botulinum toxin, saporin, restrictocin or gelonin, or modified
toxins thereof. For example, PE and DT are highly toxic compounds that typically bring about
death through liver toxicity. PE and DT, however, can be modified into a form for use as an
immunotoxin by removing the native targeting component of the toxin (such as domain Ia of PE or
the B chain of DT) and replacing it with a different targeting moiety, such as an antibody.
          Vector: A nucleic acid molecule as introduced into a host cell, thereby producing a
transformed host cell. A vector may include nucleic acid sequences that permit it to replicate in a
host cell, such as an origin of replication. A vector may also include one or more selectable marker
genes and other genetic elements known in the art.
          Unless otherwise explained, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure
belongs. The singular terms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless context clearly
indicates otherwise. "Comprising A or B" means including A, or B, or A and B. It is further to be
understood that all base sizes or amino acid sizes, and all molecular weight or molecular mass
values, given for nucleic acids or polypeptides are approximate, and are provided for description.
Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the
practice or testing of the present disclosure, suitable methods and materials are described below.
All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are
incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the present specification, including
explanations of terms, will control. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are
illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
III.      Introduction
          Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against mesothelin are currently being evaluated and
clinically developed for the treatment of mesothelioma and several other forms of cancer.
However, almost all of the existing mesothelin mAbs (including MORAb-009) currently being
evaluated in preclinical or clinical studies recognize Region I, the highly immunogenic N-terminus
                                                   - 22
3598387vl

of cell surface mesothelin, which also binds mucin MUC16/CA125. Autoantibodies, or soluble
MUC16/CA125 proteins in patients may sequester anti-Region I mAbs, limiting their anti-cancer
efficacy. In addition, when measuring soluble mesothelin for follow-up of patients in clinical trials
treated with MORAb-009, the FDA-approved MesoMarkm kit fails to detect serum mesothelin
because it forms a complex with MORAb-009 and the epitope of MORAb-009 overlaps that of the
anti-Region I antibody used in MesoMark T M . Thus, it is desirable to generate and evaluate mAbs
against all of the potentially functional sub-domains of mesothelin for anti-tumor activity and
diagnostic value.
          Rabbit hybridoma technology and a panel of truncated mesothelin domain fragments were
used to identify anti-mesothelin mAbs that specifically bind an epitope that is not part of Region 1.
Four rabbit mAbs (YP187, YP223, YP218 and YP3) were identified with high, subnanomolar
affinity for either Region 11 (391-486), Region III (487-581) or a native conformation. SS1P, a
recombinant immunotoxin consisting of an anti-mesothelin Fv linked to a truncated Pseudomonas
exotoxin, does not compete with the binding of these antibodies to mesothelin in ELISA, thus these
new rabbit mAbs recognize epitopes different from the MORAb-009/SSIP site. Flow cytometry
analysis demonstrated that the rabbit mAbs also bind native mesothelin on cancer cells.
          Immunotoxins comprising rabbit scFv YP187, YP223, YP218 or YP3 fused to PE38 were
capable of binding mesothelin-expressing cells and inducing cytotoxicity. YP218scFv-PE38
exhibited the highest binding affinity, therefore the cytotoxicity of this immunotoxin was further
evaluated against four mesothelioma patient primary cells and in a mouse model of mesothelioma.
The results demonstrated that YP218scFv-PE38 was 2- to 5-fold more potent than SS1P against
primary patient mesothelioma cells and was more effective against tumor relapse than SSIP in
vivo.
          Further disclosed herein is the identification of a high-affinity rabbit niAb that binds Region
I of mesothelin (YP158). YP158 binds native mesothelin protein in cancer cells and tissues with
very high affmity and specificity.
IV.       Rabbit Monoclonal Antibodies Specific for Mesothelin
          Disclosed herein is a panel of rabbit anti-mesothelin monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that
bind specific regions of mesothelin. In one aspect of the present disclosure, the rabbit mAbs bind
an epitope that is not part of Region I. In particular, the identified mAbs (YP187, YP223, YP218
                                                    - 23
3598387vl

and YP3) bind either Region 11 (391-486), Region 111 (487-581) or a native conformation of
mesothelin with subnanomolar affinity. These antibodies do not compete for binding with the
mesothelin-specific immunotoxin SS1P or mesothelin-specific antibody MORAb-009. In another
aspect, disclosed is a high-affinity rabbit mAb that binds Region I of mesothelin (YP158). YP158
binds native mesothelin protein in cancer cells and tissues with high affmity and specificity.
          The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the VH and VL domains of YP223, YP218,
YP3, YP187 and YP158 are shown below.
YP223 VH Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 8)
CAGGAGCAGCTGGAGGAGTCCGGGGGAGACCTGGTCCAGCCTGAGGGATCCCTGACA
CTCACCTGCAAAGCCTCTGGGTTAGACT TCAGTAGCAGCTACTGGATATGT TGGGTCCG
CCAGGCTCCAGGGAAGGGGCTGGAGTGGATCGGGTGTCGTCATACTTTTACTGCTAAC
ACATGGTCCGCGAGCTGGGTGAATGGCCGGT TCACCATCTCCAGAAGCACCAGCCTAG
GCACGGTGGATCTGAAAATGACCAGTCTGACAGCCGCGGACACGGCCACCTAT TTCTG
TGCCAGAGATGAATCTAATAATGATGGTTGGGATTTTAAGTTGTGGGGCCCAGGCACC
CTGGTCACCGTCTCCTCA
YP223 VH Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 9)
QEQLEESGGDLVQPEGSLTLTCKASGLDFSSSYWICWVRQAPGKGLEWIGCRHTFTANTW
SAS WVNGRFTISRSTSLGTVDLKMTSLTAADTATYFCARDE SNNDG WDFKLWGPGTLVT
VSS
YP223 VL Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 10)
GCCTATGATATGACCCAGACTCCAGCCTCCGTGTCTGCAGCTGTGGGAGGCACAGTCA
CCATCAAGTGCCAGGCCAGTCAGAGCATTAGTAACTACTTAGCCTGGTATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGCAGCCTCCCAAGCTCCTGATCTACCAGGCATCCACTCTGGCACCTGGGGTC
TCATCGCGGT TCAAAGGCAGTGGATCTGGGACAGAATTCACTCTCACCATCAGCGGCG
TGGAGTGTGCCGATGCTGCCACTTACTACTGTCAACAGGGTTATACTAGTAGTAATGTT
GAGAATGTTT TCGGCGGAGGGACCGGGGTGGTGGTC
YP223 VL Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 11)
AYDMTQTPASVSAAVGGTVTIKCQASQSISNYLA WYQQKPGQPPKLLIYQASTLAPGVSSR
FKGSGSGTEFTLTISGVECADAATYYCQQGYTSSNVENVFGGGTGVVV
                                                 - 24
3598387vl

Table 1. Amino acid positions of the YP223 VH (SEQ ID NO: 9) CDRs and
YP223 VL (SEQ ID NO: 11) CDRs
          H-CDR1     H-CDR2       H-CDR3    L-CDR1   L-CDR2    L-CDR3
  Kabat     31-36      51-67      100-111     24-34   50-56     89-100
  IMGT      27-34      52-59       98-111     27-32   50-52     89-100
YP218 VH Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 12)
CAGCAGCAGCTGGAGGAGTCCGGGGGAGGCCTGGTCAAGCCTGAGGGATCCCTGACA
CTCACCTGCAAAGCCTCTGGATTCGACCTCGGTTTCTACTTTTACGCCTGTTGGGTCCG
CCAGGCTCCAGGGAAGGGCCTGGAGTGGA TCGCATGCATTTATACTGCTGGTAGTGGT
AGCACGTACTACGCGAGCTGGGCGAAAGGCCGATTCACCATCTCCAAAGCCTCGTCGA
CCACGGTGACTCTGCAAATGACCAGTCTGGCAGCCGCGGACACGGCCACCTATTTCTG
TGCGAGATCTACTGCTAATACTAGAAGTACTTATTATCTTAACTTGTGGGGCCCAGGCA
CCCTGGTCACCGTCTCCTCA
YP218 VH Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 13)
QQQLEESGGGLVKPEGSLTLTCKASGFDLGFYFYACWVRQAPGKGLE WIACIYTAGSGST
YYASWAKGRFTISKASSTTVTLQMTSLAAADTATYFCARSTANTRST YYLNLWGPGTLVT
vss
YP218 VL Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 14)
GACGTCGTGATGACCCAGACTCCAGCCTCCGTGTCTGAACCTGTGGGAGGCACAGTCA
CCATCAAGTGCCAGGCCAGTCAGAGGATTAGTAGT TACTTATCCTGGTATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGCAGCGTCCCAAGCTCCTGATCTTTGGTGCATCCACTCTGGCATCTGGGGTCC
CCTCGCGGTTCAAAGGCAGTGGATCTGGGACAGAATACACTCTCACCATCAGCGACCT
GGAGTGTGCCGATGCTGCCACTTACTACTGTCAGAGTTATGCTTATTTTGATAGTAATA
ATTGGCATGCTTTCGGCGGAGGGACCGAGGTGGTGGTC
YP218 VL Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 15)
DVVMTQTPASVSEPVGGTVTIKCQASQRISSYLSWYQQKPGQRPKLLIFGASTLASGVPSRF
KGSGSGTEYTLTISDLECADAATYYCQSYAYFDSNNWHAFGGGTEVVV
Table 2. Amino acid positions of the YP218 VH (SEQ ID NO: 13) CDRs and
YP218 VL (SEQ ID NO: 15) CDRs
          H-CDR1     H-CDR2       H-CDR3    L-CDR1   L-CDR2    L-CDR3
  Kabat     31-36      51-68      100-112     24-34   50-56     89-101
  IMGT      27-34      52-59       98-112     27-32   50-52     89-101
                                           -25
3598387vl

YP3 VH Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 16)
CAGGAGCAGCTGGTGGAGTCCGGGGGAGGCCTGGTCCAGCCTGGGGCATCCCTGACA
CTCACCTGCACAGCCTCTGGAATCGACTTCAGTCGCTACTACATGTGTTGGGTCCGCCA
GGCTCCAGGGAAGGGACTGGAGGGGATCGCATGTATTTATATTGGTGGTAGTGGTAGC
ACTTACTACGCGAGCTGGGCGAAAGGCCGATTCACCATCTCCAAAGCCTCGTCGACCA
CGGTGACTCTGCAAATGACCAGTCTGACAGCCGCGGACACGGCCACTTATTTCTGTGC
GAGAGGGACTAATCTTAATTATATTTTTAGGTTGTGGGGCCCAGGCACCCTGGTCACC
GTCTCCTCA
YP3 VH Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 17)
QEQLVESGGGLVQPGASLTLTCTASGIDFSRYYMCWVRQAPGKGLEGIACIYIGGSGSTYY
ASWAKGRFTISKASSTTVTLQMTSLTAADTATYFCARGTNLNYIFRLWGPGTLVTVSS
YP3 VL Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 18)
GATGTTGTGATGACCCAGACTCCATCTCCCGTGTCTGCAGCTGTGGGAGGCACAGTCA
CCATCAAGTGCCAGGCCAGTCAGAGCATTAATAATGGTTTAGCCTGGTATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGCAGCCTCCCAGGCTCCTGATCTATTCTGCATCCAATCTGGAATCTGGGGTCC
CATCGCGGTTCAAAGGCAGTGGATCTGGGACAGAGTTCACTCTCACCATCAGCGACCT
GGAGTGTGACGATGCTGCCACTTACTATTGTCAATGTATTTGGGATGGTAATAGTTATG
TTAATGCTTTCGGCGGAGGGACCGAGGTGGTGGTC
YP3 VL Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 19)
DVVMTQTPSPVSAAVGGTVTIKCQASQSINNGLAWYQQKPGQPPRLLIYSASNLESGVPSR
FKGSGSGTEFTLTISDLECDDAATYYCQCIWDGNSYVNAFGGGTEVVV
Table 3. Amino acid positions of the YP3 VH (SEQ ID NO: 17) CDRs and
YP3 VL (SEQ ID NO: 19) CDRs
          H-CDR1     H-CDR2       H-CDR3     L-CDR1  L-CDR2   L-CDR3
  Kabat     31-35      50-67       99-108     24-34   50-56    89-100
  IMGT      26-33      51-58       97-108     27-32   50-52    89-100
YP187 clone 1 VH Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 20)
CAGTCGTTGGAGGAGTCCGGGGGAGACCTGGTCAAGCCTGGGGCATCCCTGACACTCA
CCTGCAAAGCCTCTGGATTCGACTTCAGTAGCAATGCAATGTGCTGGGTCCGCCAGGC
TCCAGGGAAGGGGCTGGAGTGGATCGCATGCATTTATGTTGGTGATGGCAACACATAC
TACGCGAGCTGGGCGAAAGGCCGATTTACCATCTCCAAAACCTCGTCGACCACGGTGA
CTCTGCAAATGACCAGTCTGACAGCCGCGGACACGGCCACCTATTTCTGTGCGAGGGG
ATATGCTAGT TATGGTAGTGATTATTATTGGGACTACTTTAAGT TGTGGGGCCCA
                                           - 26
3598387vl

YP187 clone 1 VH Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 21)
QSLEESGGDLVKPGASLTLTCKASGFDFSSNAMCWVRQAPGKGLE WIACIYVGDGNTYY
ASWAKGRFTISKTSSTTVTLQMTSLTAADTATYFCARGYASYGSDYYWDYFKLWGP
YP187 clone 2 VH Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 28)
CAGGAGCAGCTGGAGGAGTCCGGGGGAGACCTGGTCAAGCCGGGGGCATCCCTGACA
CTCACCTGCACAGCCTCTGGATTCTCCTTCAGCAGCAGCTACTGGATATGCTGGGTCCG
CCAGGCTCCAGGGAAGGGGCTGGAGTGGATCGCATGCAT TTATGCTGGTGATGGTGGT
GCCACCTATGACGCGAGCTGGGTGAATGGCCGATTCTCCATCTCCAAAACCTCGTCGA
CCACGGTGACTCTGCAAATGACCAGTCTGACAGCCGCGGACACGGCCACCTATTTCTG
TGCGAGAAAGGGTGCTGCTCCTACTACTTAT TACTATTTTAATTTGTGGGGCCCAGGCA
CCCTGGTCACCGTCTCCTCA
YP187 clone 2 VH Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 29)
QEQLEESGGDLVKPGASLTLTCTASGFSFSSSYWICWVRQAPGKGLE WIACIYAGDGGAT
YDASWVNGRFSISKTSSTTVTLQMTSLTAADTATYFCARKGAAPTTYYYFNL WGPGTLVT
vss
YP187 VL Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 22)
GCCTATGATATGACCCAGACTCCAGCCTCCGTGTCTGCAGCTGTGGGAGGCACAGTCA
CCATCAAGTGCCAGGCCAGTCAGAGCATTAGCACTGCATTAGCCTGGTATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGCAGCCTCCCAAGGTCCTGATCTATGCTGCATCCAATCTGGCATCTGGGGTCT
CATCGCGGTTCAAAGGCAGTGGATCTGGGACAGAGTTCACTCTCACCATCAGCGACCT
GGAGTGTGCCGATGCTGCCACTTACTATTGTCAACAGGCTGCTACCATTATTAATGTTG
ATAATGTTTTCGGCGGAGGGACCGAGGTGGTGGTC
YP187 VL Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 23)
AYDMTQTPASVSAAVGGTVTIKCQASQSISTALAWYQQKPGQPPKVLIYAASNLASGVSS
RFKGSGSGTEFTLTISDLECADAATYYCQQAATIINVDNVFGGGTEVVV
Table 4A. Amino acid positions of the YP187 clone 1 VH (SEQ ID NO: 21) CDRs and YP187
VL (SEQ ID NO: 23) CDRs
           H-CDR1    H-CDR2      H-CDR3     L-CDR1    L-CDR2    L-CDR3
  Kabat     31-35      50-66       98-113     24-34      50-56   89-100
  IMGT      25-33      51-57       96-113     27-32     50-52    89-100
Table 4B. Amino acid positions of the YP187 clone 2 VH (SEQ ID NO: 29)
           H-CDR1    H-CDR2      H-CDR3
  Kabat     31-36      51-68      100-112
  IMGT      26-34      52-60       98-112
                                           -27
3598387vl

YP158 VH Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 24)
CAGTCGTTGGAGGAGTCCGGGGGAGACCTGGTCAAGCCTGGGGCATCCCTGACACTCA
CCTGCACAGCCTCTGGATTCTCCTTCAGTGGCGACTACTACATGTGCTGGGTCCGCCAG
GCTCCAGGGAAGGGGCTGGAGTGGATCGCATGCATTGGTGGTGGTAGTAATACTGCCA
CCTACTACGCGACCTGGGCGAAAGGCCGATTCACCATCTCCAAAACCTCGTCGACCAC
GGTGACTCTGCAAATGACCAGTCTGACAGCCGCGGACACGGCCACCTATTTCTGTGCG
AGAGATCTCGGT TTTGTTGATTATGCTTTGGAATTGTGGGGCCCAGGCACCCTGGTCAC
CGTCTCCTCA
YP158 VH Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 25)
QSLEESGGDLVKPGASLTLTCTASGFSFSGDYYMCWVRQAPGKGLE WIACIGGGSNTATY
YATWAKGRFTISKTSSTTVTLQMTSLTAADTATYFCARDLGFVDYALELWGPGTLVTVSS
YP158 VL Nucleotide Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 26)
GACATTGTGATGACCCAGACTCCAGCCTCTGTGGAGGTAGCTGTGGGAGGCACAGTCA
CCATCAAGTGCCAGGCCAGTGAAAACATGTACAACTCTTTAGCCTGGTATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGCAGCCTCCCAAGCTCCTGATCTACAGGGCATCCACTCTGGAATCTGGGGTC
CCATCGCGGTTCAAAGGCAGTGGATCTGGGACAGAGTACACTCTCACCATCAGCGACC
TGGAGTGTGCCGATGCTGCCACTTACTACTGTCAATGTACTTTTTATAGTCATAATAAT
AATTATGGTGGTGCTTTCGGCGGAGGGACCGAGGTGGTGGTC
YP158 VL Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO: 27)
DIVMTQTPASVEVAVGGTVTIKCQASENMYNSLAWYQQKPGQPPKLLIYRASTLESGVPS
RFKGSGSGTEYTLTISDLECADAATYYCQCTFYSHNNNYGGAFGGGTEVVV
Table 5. Amino acid positions of the YP158 VH (SEQ ID NO: 25) CDRs and
YP 158 VL (SEQ ID NO: 27) CDRs
              H-CDR1      H-CDR2       H-CDR3      L-CDR1     L-CDR2       L-CDR3
  Kabat         30-35       50-67       99-109      24-34       50-56       89-102
  IMGT          25-33       51-59       97-109      27-32       50-52       89-102
          Provided herein are isolated monoclonal antibodies that bind (for example, specifically
bind) mesothelin, such as cell-surface or soluble mesothelin. In some embodiments, the VH
domain of the antibody comprises at least a portion of the amino acid sequence set forth herein as
SEQ ID NO: 9 (YP223), SEQ ID NO: 13 (YP218), SEQ ID NO: 17 (YP3), SEQ ID NO: 21
(YP187 clone 1), SEQ ID NO: 29 (YP187 clone 2) or SEQ ID NO: 25 (YP158), such as one or
                                                 - 28
3598387vl

more (such as all three) CDR sequences from SEQ ID NO: 9, 13, 17, 21, 29 or 25, as determined
by IMGT. In other embodiments, the antibodies comprise one or more (such as all three) CDR
sequences from SEQ ID NO: 9, 13, 17, 21, 29 or 25, as determined using the Kabat method.
          In some embodiments, the VL domain of the antibody comprises at least a portion of the
amino acid sequence set forth herein as SEQ ID NO: 11 (YP223), SEQ ID NO: 15 (YP218), SEQ
ID NO: 19 (YP3), SEQ ID NO: 23 (YP187) or SEQ ID NO: 27 (YP158), such as one or more (such
as all three) CDR sequences from SEQ ID NO: 11, 15, 19, 23 or 27, as determined by IMGT. In
other embodiments, the antibodies comprise one or more (such as all three) CDR sequences from
SEQ ID NO: 11, 15, 19, 23 or 27, as determined using the Kabat method.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody that binds mesothelin comprises
amino acid residues 27-34, 52-59 and 98-111 of SEQ ID NO: 9; and/or the VL domain of the
antibody comprises amino acid residues 27-32, 50-52 and 89-100 of SEQ ID NO: 11. In other
embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 31-36, 51-67 and
100-111 of SEQ ID NO: 9; and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues
24-34, 50-56 and 89-100 of SEQ ID NO: 11. In some examples, the amino acid sequence of the
VH domain is at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99%
identical to SEQ ID NO: 9; and/or the amino acid sequence of the VL domain is at least 90%, at
least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 11. In
particular examples, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 9 and/or the VL
domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 11.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 27
34, 52-59 and 98-112 of SEQ ID NO: 13; and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino
acid residues 27-32, 50-52 and 89-101 of SEQ ID NO: 15. In other embodiments, the VH domain
of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 31-36, 51-68 and 100-112 of SEQ ID NO: 13;
and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 24-34, 50-56 and 89-101 of
SEQ ID NO: 15. In some examples, the amino acid sequence of the VH domain is at least 90%, at
least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 13;
and/or the amino acid sequence of the VL domain is at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at
least 97%, at least 9 8 % or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 15. In particular examples, the
VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 13 and/or the VL domain of the antibody
comprises SEQ ID NO: 15.
                                                  - 29
3598387vl

          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 26
33, 51-58 and 97-108 of SEQ ID NO: 17; and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino
acid residues 27-32, 50-52 and 89-100 of SEQ ID NO: 19. In other embodiments, the VH domain
of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 31-35, 50-67 and 99-108 of SEQ ID NO: 17; and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 24-34, 50-56 and 89-100 of SEQ ID
NO: 19. In some examples, the amino acid sequence of the VH domain is at least 90%, at least
95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 17; and/or
the amino acid sequence of the VL domain is at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%,
at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 19. In particular examples, the VH domain of
the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 17 and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID
NO: 19.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 25
33, 51-57 and 96-113 of SEQ ID NO: 21, or amino acid residues 26-34, 52-60 and 98-112 of SEQ
ID NO: 29; and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 27-32, 50-52 and
89-100 of SEQ ID NO: 23. In other embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises
amino acid residues 31-35, 50-66 and 98-113 of SEQ ID NO: 21, or amino acid residues 31-36, 51
68 and 100-112 of SEQ ID NO: 29; and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid
residues 24-34, 50-56 and 89-100 of SEQ ID NO: 23. In some examples, the amino acid sequence
of the VH domain is at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least
99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 21 or SEQ ID NO: 29; and/or the amino acid sequence of the VL
domain is at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99%
identical to SEQ ID NO: 23. In particular examples, the VH domain of the antibody comprises
SEQ ID NO: 21 or SEQ ID NO: 29 and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO:
23.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 25
33, 51-59 and 97-109 of SEQ ID NO: 25; and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino
acid residues 27-32, 50-52 and 89-102 of SEQ ID NO: 27. In other embodiments, the VH domain
of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 30-35, 50-67 and 99-109 of SEQ ID NO: 25; and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 24-34, 50-56 and 89-102 of SEQ ID
NO: 27. In some examples, the amino acid sequence of the VH domain is at least 90%, at least
95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 25; and/or
                                                 - 30
3598387vl

the amino acid sequence of the VL domain is at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%,
at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 27. In particular examples, the VH domain of
the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 25 and/or the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID
NO: 27.
          Also provided are isolated monoclonal antibodies that bind, such as specifically bind,
mesothelin, wherein the antibody comprises a VH domain comprising the amino acid sequence of
SEQ ID NO: 9, SEQ ID NO: 13, SEQ ID NO: 17, SEQ ID NO: 21, SEQ ID NO: 29 or SEQ ID
NO: 25; and/or a VL domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11, SEQ ID NO:
15, SEQ ID NO: 19, SEQ ID NO: 23 or SEQ ID NO: 27.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 9 and/or the
VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 11.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 13 and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 15.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 17 and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 19.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 21 and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 23.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 29 and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 23.
          In some embodiments, the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 25 and/or
the VL domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 27.
          In some embodiments, the monoclonal antibodies that bind, such as specifically bind,
mesothelin are humanized antibodies.
          In some embodiments, the monoclonal antibody that binds, such as specifically binds,
mesothelin is a Fab fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab)' 2 fragment, a single chain variable fragment
(scFv), or a disulfide stabilized variable fragment (dsFv). In other embodiments, the antibody is an
immunoglobulin molecule. In particular examples, the antibody is an IgG.
          In some embodiments, the disclosed antibodies bind mesothelin (soluble or cell-surface
mesothelin) with a dissociation constant (Kd) of about 1 nM or less. In several embodiments, the
monoclonal antibodies bind mesothelin with a binding affinity of about 1 nM, about 0.9 nM, about
                                                 - 31
3598387vl

0.8 nM, about 0.7 nM, about 0.6 nM, about 0.5 nM, about 0.4 nM, about 0.3 nM, about 0.2 nM,
about 0.15 nM or about 0.1 nM.
          The monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein can be labeled, such as with a fluorescent,
enzymatic, or radioactive label.
          Further provided herein are compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of
the disclosed antibodies and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
          Immunoconjugates comprising the monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein and an effector
molecule are also provided. The effector molecule can be, for example, a toxin or a detectable
label. In some embodiments, the immunoconjugate comprises the VH and/or VL domain of one of
the anti-mesothelin antibodies disclosed herein and a toxin, such as PE or a variant therefore, such
as PE38. In particular examples, the immunoconjugate comprises the VH and VL of YP223,
YP218, YP3, YP187 or YP158 fused to PE38. In some examples, the toxin is PE38 comprising the
amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In particular non-limiting examples, the immunoconjugate
comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 31, SEQ ID NO: 33, SEQ ID NO: 35, SEQ ID
NO: 37 or SEQ ID NO: 39. Examples of immunoconjugates are discussed in greater detail in
section VI below.
          Also provided herein are compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the
immunoconjugates disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
          Further provided herein are isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding the disclosed
monoclonal antibodies. In some embodiments, the nucleotide sequence encoding the VH domain
of the monoclonal antibody comprises at least a portion of SEQ ID NO: 8, SEQ ID NO: 12, SEQ
ID NO: 16, SEQ ID NO: 20, SEQ ID NO: 28 or SEQ ID NO: 24, such as the portion encoding one
or more CDRs of SEQ ID NO: 8, SEQ ID NO: 12, SEQ ID NO: 16, SEQ ID NO: 20, SEQ ID NO:
28 or SEQ ID NO: 24. In some examples, the VH domain of the monoclonal antibody comprises
the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8, SEQ ID NO: 12, SEQ ID NO: 16, SEQ ID NO: 20, SEQ
ID NO: 28 or SEQ ID NO: 24. In some embodiments, the nucleotide sequence encoding the VL
domain of the monoclonal antibody comprises at least a portion of SEQ ID NO: 10, SEQ ID NO:
14, SEQ ID NO: 18, SEQ ID NO: 22 or SEQ ID NO: 26, such as a portion encoding one or more
CDRs of SEQ ID NO: 10, SEQ ID NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 18, SEQ ID NO: 22 or SEQ ID NO: 26.
In some examples, the VL domain of the human monoclonal antibody comprises the nucleotide
                                                  - 32
3598387vl

sequence of SEQ ID NO: 10, SEQ ID NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 18, SEQ ID NO: 22 or SEQ ID NO:
26.
          In some examples, the isolated nucleic acid molecule is operably linked to a promoter.
          Also provided are expression vectors comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecules
disclosed herein. Isolated host cells comprising the nucleic acid molecules or vectors are also
provided herein. In some examples, the host cell is a T cell, such as a cytotoxic T lymphocyte
(CTL).
V.        Antibodies and Antibody Fragments
          The monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein can be of any isotype. The monoclonal
antibody can be, for example, an IgM or an IgG antibody, such as IgGior an IgG2. The class of an
antibody that specifically binds mesothelin can be switched with another (for example, IgG can be
switched to IgM), according to well-known procedures. Class switching can also be used to
convert one IgG subclass to another, such as from IgG1 to IgG2 .
          Antibody fragments are also encompassed by the present disclosure, such as single-domain
antibodies (e.g., VH domain antibodies), Fab, F(ab') 2 , and Fv. These antibody fragments retain the
ability to selectively bind with the antigen. These fragments include:
          (1)    Fab, the fragment which contains a monovalent antigen-binding fragment of an
antibody molecule, can be produced by digestion of whole antibody with the enzyme papain to
yield an intact light chain and a portion of one heavy chain;
          (2)    Fab', the fragment of an antibody molecule can be obtained by treating whole
antibody with pepsin, followed by reduction, to yield an intact light chain and a portion of the
heavy chain; two Fab' fragments are obtained per antibody molecule;
          (3)    (Fab') 2, the fragment of the antibody that can be obtained by treating whole antibody
with the enzyme pepsin without subsequent reduction; F(ab')2 is a dimer of two Fab' fragments held
together by two disulfide bonds;
          (4)    Fv, a genetically engineered fragment containing the variable region of the light
chain and the variable region of the heavy chain expressed as two chains;
          (5)    Single chain antibody (such as scFv), a genetically engineered molecule containing
the variable region of the light chain, the variable region of the heavy chain, linked by a suitable
polypeptide linker as a genetically fused single chain molecule;
                                                    - 33
3598387vl

          (6)    A dimer of a single chain antibody (scFV2 ), defined as a dirner of a scFV (also
known as a "miniantibody"); and
          (7)    VH single-domain antibody, an antibody fragment consisting of the heavy chain
variable domain.
          Methods of making these fragments are known in the art (see for example, Harlow and
Lane, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York, 1988).
          In some cases, antibody fragments can be prepared by proteolytic hydrolysis of the antibody
or by expression in a host cell (such as E. coli) of DNA encoding the fragment. Antibody
fragments can be obtained by pepsin or papain digestion of whole antibodies by conventional
methods. For example, antibody fragments can be produced by enzymatic cleavage of antibodies
with pepsin to provide a 5S fragment denoted F(ab') 2. This fragment can be further cleaved using a
thiol reducing agent, and optionally a blocking group for the sulfhydryl groups resulting from
cleavage of disulfide linkages, to produce 3.5S Fab' monovalent fragments. Alternatively, an
enzymatic cleavage using pepsin produces two monovalent Fab' fragments and an Fc fragment
directly (see U.S. Patent No. 4,036,945 and U.S. Patent No. 4,331,647).
          Other methods of cleaving antibodies, such as separation of heavy chains to form
monovalent light-heavy chain fragments, further cleavage of fragments, or other enzymatic,
chemical, or genetic techniques may also be used, so long as the fragments bind to the antigen that
is recognized by the intact antibody.
          One of skill will realize that conservative variants of the antibodies can be produced. Such
conservative variants employed in antibody fragments, such as dsFv fragments or in scFv
fragments, will retain critical amino acid residues necessary for correct folding and stabilizing
between the VH and the VL regions, and will retain the charge characteristics of the residues in
order to preserve the low pI and low toxicity of the molecules. Amino acid substitutions (such as at
most one, at most two, at most three, at most four, or at most five amino acid substitutions) can be
made in the VH and/or the VL regions to increase yield. Conservative amino acid substitution tables
providing functionally similar amino acids are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The
following six groups are examples of amino acids that are considered to be conservative
substitutions for one another:
                 1) Alanine (A), Serine (S), Threonine (T);
                 2) Aspartic acid (D), Glutamic acid (E);
                 3) Asparagine (N), Glutamine (Q);
                                                    - 34
3598387vl

                 4) Arginine (R), Lysine (K);
                 5) Isoleucine (I), Leucine (L), Methionine (M), Valine (V); and
                 6) Phenylalanine (F), Tyrosine (Y), Tryptophan (W).
VI.       Immunoconjugates
          The disclosed monoclonal antibodies specific for mesothelin or a fragment thereof can be
conjugated to a therapeutic agent or effector molecule. Immunoconjugates include, but are not
limited to, molecules in which there is a covalent linkage of a therapeutic agent to an antibody. A
therapeutic agent is an agent with a particular biological activity directed against a particular target
molecule or a cell bearing a target molecule. One of skill in the art will appreciate that therapeutic
agents can include various drugs such as vinblastine, daunomycin and the like, cytotoxins such as
native or modified Pseudomonas exotoxin or Diphtheria toxin, encapsulating agents (such as
liposomes) which themselves contain pharmacological compositions, radioactive agents such as
                        35
  51, 32     C, 3H and     S and other labels, target moieties and ligands.
          The choice of a particular therapeutic agent depends on the particular target molecule or
cell, and the desired biological effect. Thus, for example, the therapeutic agent can be a cytotoxin
that is used to bring about the death of a particular target cell (such as a tumor cell). Conversely,
where it is desired to invoke a non-lethal biological response, the therapeutic agent can be
conjugated to a non-lethal pharmacological agent or a liposome containing a non-lethal
pharmacological agent.
          With the therapeutic agents and antibodies described herein, one of skill can readily
construct a variety of clones containing functionally equivalent nucleic acids, such as nucleic acids
which differ in sequence but which encode the same effector moiety or antibody sequence. Thus,
the present disclosure provides nucleic acids encoding antibodies and conjugates and fusion
proteins thereof
          Effector molecules can be linked to an antibody of interest using any number of means
known to those of skill in the art. Both covalent and noncovalent attachment means may be used.
The procedure for attaching an effector molecule to an antibody varies according to the chemical
structure of the effector. Polypeptides typically contain a variety of functional groups; such as
carboxylic acid (COOH), free amine (-NH 2) or sulfhydryl (-SH) groups, which are available for
reaction with a suitable functional group on an antibody to result in the binding of the effector
molecule. Alternatively, the antibody is derivatized to expose or attach additional reactive
                                                     - 35
3598387vl

functional groups. The derivatization may involve attachment of any of a number of known linker
molecules. The linker can be any molecule used to join the antibody to the effector molecule. The
linker is capable of forming covalent bonds to both the antibody and to the effector molecule.
Suitable linkers are well known to those of skill in the art and include, but are not limited to,
straight or branched-chain carbon linkers, heterocyclic carbon linkers, or peptide linkers. Where
the antibody and the effector molecule are polypeptides, the linkers may be joined to the constituent
amino acids through their side groups (such as through a disulfide linkage to cysteine) or to the
alpha carbon amino and carboxyl groups of the terminal amino acids.
          In some circumstances, it is desirable to free the effector molecule from the antibody when
the immunoconjugate has reached its target site. Therefore, in these circumstances,
immunoconjugates will comprise linkages that are cleavable in the vicinity of the target site.
Cleavage of the linker to release the effector molecule from the antibody may be prompted by
enzymatic activity or conditions to which the immunoconjugate is subjected either inside the target
cell or in the vicinity of the target site.
          In view of the large number of methods that have been reported for attaching a variety of
radiodiagnostic compounds, radiotherapeutic compounds, label (such as enzymes or fluorescent
molecules) drugs, toxins, and other agents to antibodies one skilled in the art will be able to
determine a suitable method for attaching a given agent to an antibody or other polypeptide.
          The antibodies or antibody fragments disclosed herein can be derivatized or linked to
another molecule (such as another peptide or protein). In general, the antibodies or portion thereof
is derivatized such that the binding to the target antigen is not affected adversely by the
derivatization or labeling. For example, the antibody can be functionally linked (by chemical
coupling, genetic fusion, noncovalent association or otherwise) to one or more other molecular
entities, such as another antibody (for example, a bispecific antibody or a diabody), a detection
agent, a pharmaceutical agent, and/or a protein or peptide that can mediate association of the
antibody or antibody portion with another molecule (such as a streptavidin core region or a
polyhistidine tag).
          One type of derivatized antibody is produced by cross-linking two or more antibodies (of
the same type or of different types, such as to create bispecific antibodies). Suitable crosslinkers
include those that are heterobifunctional, having two distinctly reactive groups separated by an
                                                   - 36
3598387vl

appropriate spacer (such as m-maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester) or
homobifunctional (such as disuccinimidyl suberate). Such linkers are commercially available.
          An antibody that binds (for example specifically binds) mesothelin or a fragment thereof
can be labeled with a detectable moiety. Useful detection agents include fluorescent compounds,
including fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, 5-dinethylamine-1
napthalenesulfonyl chloride, phycoerythrin, lanthanide phosphors and the like. Bioluminescent
markers are also of use, such as luciferase, Green fluorescent protein (GFP), Yellow fluorescent
protein (YFP). An antibody can also be labeled with enzymes that are useful for detection, such as
horseradish peroxidase,   P- galactosidase, luciferase, alkaline phosphatase, glucose oxidase and the
like. When an antibody is labeled with a detectable enzyme, it can be detected by adding additional
reagents that the enzyme uses to produce a reaction product that can be discerned. For example,
when the agent horseradish peroxidase is present the addition of hydrogen peroxide and
diaminobenzidine leads to a colored reaction product, which is visually detectable. An antibody
may also be labeled with biotin, and detected through indirect measurement of avidin or
streptavidin binding. It should be noted that the avidin itself can be labeled with an enzyme or a
fluorescent label.
          An antibody may be labeled with a magnetic agent, such as gadolinium. Antibodies can
also be labeled with lanthanides (such as europium and dysprosium), and manganese.
Paramagnetic particles such as superparamagnetic iron oxide are also of use as labels. An antibody
may also be labeled with a predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter
(such as leucine zipper pair sequences, binding sites for secondary antibodies, metal binding
domains, epitope tags). In some embodiments, labels are attached by spacer arms of various
lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance.
          An antibody can also be labeled with a radiolabeled amino acid. The radiolabel may be
used for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. For instance, the radiolabel may be used to
detect mesothelin by x-ray, emission spectra, or other diagnostic techniques. Examples of labels
for polypeptides include, but are not limited to, the following radioisotopes or radionucleotides: 3H,
14 C,  5N, 35S, 9Y,  Tc, "I In, 12I, 1311.
          An antibody can also be derivatized with a chemical group such as polyethylene glycol
(PEG), a methyl or ethyl group, or a carbohydrate group. These groups may be useful to improve
                                                  - 37
3598387vl

the biological characteristics of the antibody, such as to increase serum half-life or to increase
tissue binding.
          Toxins can be employed with the monoclonal antibodies described herein to produce
immunotoxins. Exemplary toxins include ricin, abrin, diphtheria toxin and subunits thereof, as well
as botulinum toxins A through F. These toxins are readily available from commercial sources (for
example, Sigma Chemical Company, St. Louis, MO). Contemplated toxins also include variants of
the toxins described herein (see, for example, see, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,079,163 and 4,689,401). In
one embodiment, the toxin is Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE) (U.S. Patent No. 5,602,095).           As used
herein "Pseudomonasexotoxin" refers to a full-length native (naturally occurring) PE or a PE that
has been modified. Such modifications can include, but are not limited to, elimination of domain
Ia, various amino acid deletions in domains Ib, 11 and III, single amino acid substitutions and the
addition of one or more sequences at the carboxyl terminus (for example, see Siegall et al., J Biol.
Chem. 264:14256-14261, 1989).
          PE employed with the monoclonal antibodies described herein can include the native
sequence, cytotoxic fragments of the native sequence, and conservatively modified variants of
native PE and its cytotoxic fragments. Cytotoxic fragments of PE include those which are
cytotoxic with or without subsequent proteolytic or other processing in the target cell. Cytotoxic
fragments of PE include PE40, PE38, and PE35. For additional description of PE and variants
thereof, see for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,892,827; 5,512,658; 5,602,095; 5,608,039; 5,821,238;
and 5,854,044; PCT PublicationNo. WO 99/51643; Pai et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88:3358
3362, 1991; Kondo et al., J. Biol. Chem. 263:9470-9475, 1988; Pastan et al., Biochim. Biophys.
Acta 1333:Cl-C6, 1997.
          The full-length PE sequence is set forth herein as SEQ ID NO: 1:
AEEAFDLWNECAKACVLDLKDGVRSSRMSVDPAIADTNGQGVLHYSMVLEGGNDALKL
AIDNALSITSDGLTIRLEGGVEPNKPVRYSYTRQARGSWSLNWLVPIGHEKPSNIKVFIHEL
NAGNQLSHMSPIYTIEMGDELLAKLARDATFFVRAHESNEMQPTLAISHAGVSVVMAQTQ
PRREKRWSEWASGKVLCLLDPLDGVYNYLAQQRCNLDDTWEGKlYRVLAGNPAKHDLDI
KPTVISHRLHFPEGGSLAALTAHQACHLPLETFTRHRQPRGWEQLEQCGYPVQRLVALYL
AARLSWNQVDQVIRNALASPGSGGDLGEAIREQPEQARLALTLAAAESERFVRQGTGNDE
AGAANADVVSL TCPVAAGECAGPADSGDALLERNYPTGAEFLGDGGDVSFSTRGTQNWT
VERLLQAHRQLEERGYVFVGYHGTFLEAAQSIVFGGVRARSQDLDAIWRGFYAGDPALA
YGYAQDQEPDARGRIRNGALLRVYVPRSSLPGFYRTSLTLAAPEAAGEVERLIGHPLPLRL
DAITGPEEEGGRLETILGWPLAERTVVIPSAIPTDPRNVGGDLDPSSIPDKEQAISALPDYAS
QPGKPPREDLK
                                                  - 38
3598387vl

          In some examples, the PE is PE38, comprising the following amino acid sequence:
PEGGSLAALTAHQACHLPLETFTRHRQPRGWEQLEQCGYPVQRLVALYLAARLS WNQVD
QVIRNALASPGSGGDLGEAIREQPEQARLALTLAAAESERFVRQGTGNDEAGAANGPADS
GDALLERNYPTGAEFLGDGGDVSFSTRGTQNWTVERLLQAHRQLEERGYVFVGYHGTFL
EAAQSIVFGGVRARSQDLDAIWRGFYIAGDPALAYGYAQDQEPDARGRIRNGALLRVYVP
RSSLPGFYRTSLTLAAPEAAGEVERLIGHPLPLRLDAITGPEEEGGRLETILGWPLAERTVVI
PSAIPTDPRNVGGDLDPSSIPDKEQAISALPDYASQPGKPPREDLK (SEQ ID NO: 2)
          Also contemplated herein are protease-resistant PE variants and PE variants with reduced
immunogenicity, such as, but not limited to PE-LR, PE-6X, PE-8X, PE-LR/6X and PE-LR/8X (see,
for example, Weldon et al., Blood 113(16):3792-3800, 2009; Onda et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA
105(32):11311-11316, 2008; and PCT Publication Nos. WO 2007/016150, WO 2009/032954 and
WO 2011/032022, which are herein incorporated by reference).
          In some examples, the PE is a variant that is resistant to lysosomal degradation, such as PE
LR (Weldon et al., Blood 1 13(16):3792-3800, 2009; PCT Publication No. WO 2009/032954)
having the following amino acid sequence:
RHRQPRGWEQLPTGAEFLGDGGDVSFSTRGTQNWTVERLLQAHRQLEERGYVFVGYHGT
FLEAAQSIVFGGVRARSQDLDAIWRGFYIAGDPALAYGYAQDQEPDARGRIRNGALLRVY
VPRSSLPGFYRTSLTLAAPEAAGEVERLIGHPLPLRLDAITGPEEEGGRLETILGWPLAERTV
VIPSAIPTDPRNVGGDLDPSSIPDKEQAISALPDYASQPGKPPREDLK (SEQ ID NO: 3)
          In other examples, the PE is a variant designated PE-LR/6X (PCT Publication No. WO
2011/032022) having the following amino acid sequence:
RHRQPRGWEQLPTGAEFLGDGGDVSFSTRGTQNWTVERLLQAHRQLEEGGYVFVGYHGT
FLEAAQSIVFGGVRARSQDLDAIWAGFYIAGDPALAYGYAQDQEPDAAGRIRNGALLRVY
VPRSSLPGFYATSLTLAAPEAAGEVERLIGHPLPLRLDAITGPEESGGRLETILGWPLAERTV
VIPSAIPTDPRNVGGDLDPSSIPDSEQAISALPDYASQPGKPPREDLK (SEQ ID NO: 4)
          In other examples, the PE variant is PE with reducing immunogenicity, such as a PE with
the following sequence:
RHRQPRGWEQLPTGAEFLGDGGXVSFSTRGTQNWTVERLLQAHRQLEEXGYVFVGYHGT
FLEAAQSIVFGGVRARSQDLDAIWXGFYIAGDPALAYGYAQDQEPDAXGRIRNGALLRVY
VPRSSLPGFYXTSLTLAAPEAAGEVERLIGHPLPLRLDAITGPEEXGGRLE TILGWPLAERTV
VIPSA1PTDPRNVGGDLDPSSIPDXEXAISALPDYASQPGKPPREDLK (X = G, A or S; SEQ ID
NO: 5)
          In other examples, the PE is a variant designated PE-LR/8M (PCT Publication No. WO
2011,/032022) having the following amino acid sequence:
                                                   - 39
3598387vl

RHRQPRGWEQLPTGAEFLGDGGAVSFSTRGTQNWTVERLLQAHRQLEEGGYVFVGYHGT
FLEAAQSIVFGGVRARSQDLDAIWAGFYIAGDPALAYGYAQDQEPDAAGRIRNGALLRVY
VPRSSLPGFYATSLTLAAPEAAGEVERLIGHPLPLRLDAITGPEESGGRLETILGWPLAERTV
VIPSAIPTDPRNVGGDLDPSSIPDSEAAISALPDYASQPGKPPREDLK (SEQ ID NO: 6)
          Substitutions of PE are defined herein by reference to the amino acid sequence of full
length PE set forth herein as SEQ ID NO: 1. Substitutions of PE are described herein by reference
to the amino acid residue present at a particular position, followed by the amino acid with which
that residue has been replaced in the particular substitution. In this regard, the positions of the
amino acid sequence of a particular embodiment of a PE are referred to herein as the positions of
the amino acid sequence of the particular embodiment, or as the positions as defined by SEQ ID
NO: 1. Thus, substitutions refer to a replacement of an amino acid residue in the amino acid
sequence of a particular embodiment of a PE corresponding to the indicated position of the 613
amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 with the understanding that the actual positions in the
respective amino acid sequence may be different. In the event of multiple substitutions at two or
more positions, the two or more substitutions may be the same or different - each amino acid
residue of the two or more amino acid residues being substituted can be substituted with the same
or different amino acid residue unless explicitly indicated otherwise.
          Modification of PE may occur in any previously described variant, including cytotoxic
fragments of PE (for example, PE38, PE-LR and PE-LR/8M). Modified PEs may include any
substitution(s), as described above, for one or more amino acid residues within one or more T-cell
epitopes and/or B cell epitopes of PE.
          In particular examples disclosed herein, the immunoconjugate comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 31, SEQ ID NO: 33, SEQ ID NO: 35, SEQ ID NO: 37 or SEQ ID NO:
39, and/or is encoded by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 30, SEQ ID NO: 32, SEQ ID
NO: 34, SEQ ID NO: 36 or SEQ ID NO: 38.
          The antibodies described herein can also be used to target any number of different
diagnostic or therapeutic compounds to cells expressing mesothelin on their surface. Thus, an
antibody of the present disclosure can be attached directly or via a linker to a drug that is to be
delivered directly to cells expressing cell-surface mesothelin. This can be done for therapeutic,
diagnostic or research purposes. Therapeutic agents include such compounds as nucleic acids,
proteins, peptides, amino acids or derivatives, glycoproteins, radioisotopes, lipids, carbohydrates,
or recombinant viruses. Nucleic acid therapeutic and diagnostic moieties include antisense nucleic
                                                  - 40
3598387vl

acids, derivatized oligonucleotides for covalent cross-linking with single or duplex DNA, and
triplex forming oligonucleotides.
          Alternatively, the molecule linked to an anti-mesothelin antibody can be an encapsulation
system, such as a liposome or micelle that contains a therapeutic composition such as a drug, a
nucleic acid (for example, an antisense nucleic acid), or another therapeutic moiety that is
preferably shielded from direct exposure to the circulatory system. Means of preparing liposomes
attached to antibodies are well known to those of skill in the art (see, for example, U.S. Patent No.
4,957,735; Connor et al., Pharm. Ther. 28:341-365, 1985).
          Antibodies described herein can also be covalently or non-covalently linked to a detectable
label. Detectable labels suitable for such use include any composition detectable by spectroscopic,
photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, electrical, optical or chemical means. Useful labels
include magnetic beads, fluorescent dyes (for example, fluorescein isothiocyanate, Texas red,
rhodamine, green fluorescent protein, and the like), radiolabels (for example, 3H,    12
                                                                                         51S,   4C, or
 2P), enzymes (such as horseradish peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase and others commonly used in
an ELISA), and colorimetric labels such as colloidal gold or colored glass or plastic (such as
polystyrene, polypropylene, latex, and the like) beads.
          Means of detecting such labels are well known to those of skill in the art. Thus, for
example, radiolabels may be detected using photographic film or scintillation counters, fluorescent
markers may be detected using a photodetector to detect emitted illumination. Enzymatic labels are
typically detected by providing the enzyme with a substrate and detecting the reaction product
produced by the action of the enzyme on the substrate, and colorinietric labels are detected by
simply visualizing the colored label.
VII.      Compositions and Methods of Use
          Compositions are provided that include one or more of the disclosed antibodies that bind
(for example specifically bind) mesothelin in a carrier. Compositions comprising
immunoconjugates or immunotoxins are also provided. The compositions can be prepared in unit
dosage forms for administration to a subject. The amount and timing of administration are at the
discretion of the treating clinician to achieve the desired outcome. The antibody can be formulated
for systemic or local (such as intra-tumor) administration. In one example, the antibody is
formulated for parenteral administration, such as intravenous administration.
                                                  - 41
3598387vl

          The compositions for administration can include a solution of the antibody dissolved in a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, such as an aqueous carrier. A variety of aqueous carriers can
be used, for example, buffered saline and the like. These solutions are sterile and generally free of
undesirable matter. These compositions may be sterilized by conventional, well known
sterilization techniques. The compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary
substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering
agents, toxicity adjusting agents and the like, for example, sodium acetate, sodium chloride,
potassium chloride, calcium chloride, sodium lactate and the like. The concentration of antibody in
these formulations can vary widely, and will be selected primarily based on fluid volumes,
viscosities, body weight and the like in accordance with the particular mode of administration
selected and the subject's needs.
          A typical pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration includes about 0.1 to
10 mg of antibody per subject per day. Dosages from 0.1 up to about 100 mg per subject per day
may be used, particularly if the agent is administered to a secluded site and not into the circulatory
or lymph system, such as into a body cavity or into a lumen of an organ. Actual methods for
preparing administrable compositions will be known or apparent to those skilled in the art and are
described in more detail in such publications as Remington's PharmaceuticalScience, 19th ed.,
Mack Publishing Company, Easton, PA (1995).
          Antibodies may be provided in lyophilized form and rehydrated with sterile water before
administration, although they are also provided in sterile solutions of known concentration. The
antibody solution is then added to an infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride, USP, and in
some cases administered at a dosage of from 0.5 to 15 mg/kg of body weight. Considerable
experience is available in the art in the administration of antibody drugs, which have been marketed
in the U.S. since the approval of RITUXAN@ in 1997. Antibodies can be administered by slow
infusion, rather than in an intravenous push or bolus. In one example, a higher loading dose is
administered, with subsequent, maintenance doses being administered at a lower level. For
example, an initial loading dose of 4 mg/kg may be infused over a period of some 90 minutes,
followed by weekly maintenance doses for 4-8 weeks of 2 mg/kg infused over a 30 minute period if
the previous dose was well tolerated.
          Controlled release parenteral formulations can be made as implants, oily injections, or as
particulate systems. For a broad overview of protein delivery systems see, Banga, A.J.,
                                                  - 42
3598387vl

TherapeuticPeptides and Proteins:Formulation,Processing,and Delivery Systems, Technomic
Publishing Company, Inc., Lancaster, PA, (1995). Particulate systems include microspheres,
microparticles, microcapsules, nanocapsules, nanospheres, and nanoparticles. Microcapsules
contain the therapeutic protein, such as a cytotoxin or a drug, as a central core. In microspheres the
therapeutic is dispersed throughout the particle. Particles, microspheres, and microcapsules smaller
than about 1 tm are generally referred to as nanoparticles, nanospheres, and nanocapsules,
respectively. Capillaries have a diameter of approximately 5 Irn so that only nanoparticles are
administered intravenously. Microparticles are typically around 100 pm in diameter and are
administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly. See, for example, Kreuter, J., ColloidalDrug
Delivery Systems, J. Kreuter, ed., Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, NY, pp. 219-342 (1994); and
Tice & Tabibi, Treatise on ControlledDrug Delivery, A. Kydonieus, ed., Marcel Dekker, Inc. New
York, NY, pp. 315-339, (1992).
          Polymers can be used for ion-controlled release of the antibody compositions disclosed
herein. Various degradable and nondegradable polymeric matrices for use in controlled drug
delivery are known in the art (Langer, Accounts Chem. Res. 26:537-542, 1993). For example, the
block copolymer, polaxamer 407, exists as a viscous yet mobile liquid at low temperatures but
forms a semisolid gel at body temperature. It has been shown to be an effective vehicle for
formulation and sustained delivery of recombinant interleukin-2 and urease (Johnston et al.,
Pharm. Res. 9:425-434, 1992; and Pec et al., J Parent.Sci. Tech. 44(2):58-65, 1990).
Alternatively, hydroxyapatite has been used as a microcarrier for controlled release of proteins
(Ijntema et al., Int. J Pharm.112:215-224, 1994). In yet another aspect, liposomes are used for
controlled release as well as drug targeting of the lipid-capsulated drug (Betageri et al., Liposome
Drug Delivery Systems, Technomic Publishing Co., Inc., Lancaster, PA (1993)). Numerous
additional systems for controlled delivery of therapeutic proteins are known (see U.S. Patent No.
5,055,303; U.S. Patent No. 5,188,837; U.S. Patent No. 4,235,871; U.S. Patent No. 4,501,728; U.S.
Patent No. 4,837,028; U.S. Patent No. 4,957,735; U.S. Patent No. 5,019,369; U.S. Patent No.
5,055,303; U.S. Patent No. 5,514,670; U.S. Patent No. 5,413,797; U.S. Patent No. 5,268,164; U.S.
Patent No. 5,004,697; U.S. Patent No. 4,902,505; U.S. Patent No. 5,506,206; U.S. Patent No.
5,271,961; U.S. Patent No. 5,254,342 and U.S. Patent No. 5,534,496).
                                                  - 43
3598387vl

          A.      Therapeutic Methods
          The antibodies, compositions and immunoconjugates disclosed herein can be administered
to slow or inhibit the growth of tumor cells or inhibit the metastasis of tumor cells, such as
mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic
cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer. In these applications, a
therapeutically effective amount of an antibody is administered to a subject in an amount sufficient
to inhibit growth, replication or metastasis of cancer cells, or to inhibit a sign or a symptom of the
cancer. Suitable subjects may include those diagnosed with a cancer that expresses mesothelin,
such as, but not limited to, mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous
cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer.
          In one non-limiting embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating a subject with
cancer by selecting a subject with a cancer that expresses mesothelin and administering to the
subject a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody, composition or immunoconjugate
disclosed herein.
          Also provided herein is a method of inhibiting tumor growth or metastasis by selecting a
subject with a cancer that expresses mesothelin and administering to the subject a therapeutically
effective amount of an antibody, composition or immunoconjugate disclosed herein.
          A therapeutically effective amount of a mesothelin-specific antibody or immunoconjugate
will depend upon the severity of the disease and the general state of the patient's health. A
therapeutically effective amount of the antibody is that which provides either subjective relief of a
symptom(s) or an objectively identifiable improvement as noted by the clinician or other qualified
observer.
          Administration of the antibodies and immunoconjugates disclosed herein can also be
accompanied by administration of other anti-cancer agents or therapeutic treatments (such as
surgical resection of a tumor). Any suitable anti-cancer agent can be administered in combination
with the antibodies, compositions and immunoconjugates disclosed herein. Exemplary anti-cancer
agents include, but are not limited to, chemotherapeutic agents, such as, for example, mitotic
inhibitors, alkylating agents, anti-metabolites, intercalating antibiotics, growth factor inhibitors, cell
cycle inhibitors, enzymes, topoisomerase inhibitors, anti-survival agents, biological response
modifiers, anti-hormones (e.g. anti-androgens) and anti-angiogenesis agents. Other anti-cancer
treatments include radiation therapy and other antibodies that specifically target cancer cells.
                                                  - 44
3598387vl

          Non-limiting examples of alkylating agents include nitrogen mustards (such as
mechlorethamine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan, uracil mustard or chlorambucil), alkyl sulfonates
(such as busulfan), nitrosoureas (such as carmustine, lomustine, semustine, streptozocin, or
dacarbazine).
          Non-limiting examples of antimetabolites include folic acid analogs (such as methotrexate),
pyrimidine analogs (such as 5-FU or cytarabine), and purine analogs, such as mercaptopurine or
thioguanine.
          Non-limiting examples of natural products include vinca alkaloids (such as vinblastine,
vincristine, or vindesine), epipodophyllotoxins (such as etoposide or teniposide), antibiotics (such
as dactinomycin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, bleomycin, plicamycin, or mitomycin C), and
enzymes (such as L-asparaginase).
          Non-limiting examples of miscellaneous agents include platinum coordination complexes
(such as cis-diamine-dichloroplatinum 11 also known as cisplatin), substituted ureas (such as
hydroxyurea), methyl hydrazine derivatives (such as procarbazine), and adrenocrotical suppressants
(such as mitotane and aminoglutethimide).
          Non-limiting examples of hormones and antagonists include adrenocorticosteroids (such as
prednisone), progestins (such as hydroxyprogesterone caproate, medroxyprogesterone acetate, and
magestrol acetate), estrogens (such as diethylstilbestrol and ethinyl estradiol), antiestrogens (such
as tamoxifen), and androgens (such as testerone proprionate and fluoxymesterone). Examples of
the most commonly used chemotherapy drugs include Adriamycin, Alkeran, Ara-C, BiCNU,
Busulfan, CCNU, Carboplatinum, Cisplatinum, Cytoxan, Daunorubicin, DTIC, 5-FU, Fludarabine,
Hydrea, Idarubicin, Ifosfamide, Methotrexate, Mithramycin, Mitomycin, Mitoxantrone, Nitrogen
Mustard, Taxol (or other taxanes, such as docetaxel), Velban, Vincristine, VP-16, while some more
newer drugs include Gemcitabine (Gemzar), Herceptin, Irinotecan (Camptosar, CPT-l 1),
Leustatin, Navelbine, Rituxan STI-571, Taxotere, Topotecan (Hycamtin), Xeloda (Capecitabine),
Zevelin and calcitriol.
          Non-limiting examples of immunomodulators that can be used include AS- 101 (Wyeth
Ayerst Labs.), bropirimine (Upjohn), gamma interferon (Genentech), GM-CSF (granulocyte
macrophage colony stimulating factor; Genetics Institute), IL-2 (Cetus or Hoffman-LaRoche),
human immune globulin (Cutter Biological), IMREG (from Imreg of New Orleans, La.), SK&F
106528, and TNF (tumor necrosis factor; Genentech).
                                                 - 45
3598387vl

Another common treatment for some types of cancer is surgical treatment, for example surgical
resection of the cancer or a portion of it. Another example of a treatment is radiotherapy, for
example administration of radioactive material or energy (such as external beam therapy) to the
tumor site to help eradicate the tumor or shrink it prior to surgical resection.
          B.      Methods for Diagnosis and Detection
          Methods are provided herein for detecting expression of mesothelin in vitro or in vivo. In
some cases, mesothelin expression is detected in a biological sample. The sample can be any
sample, including, but not limited to, tissue from biopsies, autopsies and pathology specimens.
Biological samples also include sections of tissues, for example, frozen sections taken for
histological purposes. Biological samples further include body fluids, such as blood, serum,
plasma, sputum, spinal fluid or urine. A biological sample is typically obtained from a mammal,
such as a human or non-human primate.
          In one embodiment, provided is a method of determining if a subject has cancer by
contacting a sample from the subject with a monoclonal antibody disclosed herein; and detecting
binding of the antibody to the sample. An increase in binding of the antibody to the sample as
compared to binding of the antibody to a control sample identifies the subject as having cancer.
          In another embodiment, provided is a method of confirming a diagnosis of cancer in a
subject by contacting a sample from a subject diagnosed with cancer with a monoclonal antibody
disclosed herein; and detecting binding of the antibody to the sample. An increase in binding of the
antibody to the sample as compared to binding of the antibody to a control sample confirms the
diagnosis of cancer in the subject.
          In some examples of the disclosed methods, the monoclonal antibody is directly labeled.
          In some examples, the methods further include contacting a second antibody that
specifically binds the monoclonal antibody with the sample; and detecting the binding of the
second antibody. An increase in binding of the second antibody to the sample as compared to
binding of the second antibody to a control sample detects cancer in the subject or confirms the
diagnosis of cancer in the subject.
          In some cases, the cancer is mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer,
squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer,
or any other type of cancer that expresses mesothelin.
                                                  - 46
3598387vl

          In some examples, the control sample is a sample from a subject without cancer. In
particular examples, the sample is a blood or tissue sample.
          In some cases, the antibody that binds (for example specifically binds) mesothelin is
directly labeled with a detectable label. In another embodiment, the antibody that binds (for
example, specifically binds) mesothelin (the first antibody) is unlabeled and a second antibody or
other molecule that can bind the antibody that specifically binds mesothelin is labeled. As is well
known to one of skill in the art, a second antibody is chosen that is able to specifically bind the
specific species and class of the first antibody. For example, if the first antibody is a human IgG,
then the secondary antibody may be an anti-human-IgG. Other molecules that can bind to
antibodies include, without limitation, Protein A and Protein G, both of which are available
commercially.
          Suitable labels for the antibody or secondary antibody are described above, and include
various enzymes, prosthetic groups, fluorescent materials, luminescent materials, magnetic agents
and radioactive materials. Non-limiting examples of suitable enzymes include horseradish
peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, beta-galactosidase, or acetylcholinesterase. Non-limiting
examples of suitable prosthetic group complexes include streptavidin/biotin and avidin/biotin.
Non-limiting examples of suitable fluorescent materials include umbelliferone, fluorescein,
fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein, dansyl chloride or
phycoerythrin. A non-limiting exemplary luminescent material is luminol; a non-limiting
exemplary a magnetic agent is gadolinium, and non-limiting exemplary radioactive labels include
 m25 13m ,3S or 3H.
          In an alternative embodiment, mesothelin can be assayed in a biological sample by a
competition immunoassay utilizing mesothelin standards labeled with a detectable substance and an
unlabeled antibody that specifically binds mesothelin. In this assay, the biological sample, the
labeled mesothelin standards and the antibody that specifically bind mesothelin are combined and
the amount of labeled mesothelin standard bound to the unlabeled antibody is determined. The
amount of mesothelin in the biological sample is inversely proportional to the amount of labeled
mesothelin standard bound to the antibody that specifically binds mesothelin.
          The immunoassays and method disclosed herein can be used for a number of purposes. In
one embodiment, the antibody that specifically binds mesothelin may be used to detect the
production of mesothelin in cells in cell culture. In another embodiment, the antibody can be used
                                                   - 47
3598387vl

to detect the amount of mesothelin in a biological sample, such as a tissue sample, or a blood or
serum sample. In some examples, the mesothelin is cell-surface mesothelin. In other examples, the
mesothelin is soluble mesothelin (e.g. mesothelin in a cell culture supernatant or soluble mesothelin
in a body fluid sample, such as a blood or serum sample).
          In one embodiment, a kit is provided for detecting mesothelin in a biological sample, such
as a blood sample or tissue sample. For example, to confirm a cancer diagnosis in a subject, a
biopsy can be performed to obtain a tissue sample for histological examination. Alternatively, a
blood sample can be obtained to detect the presence of soluble mesothelin protein or fragment.
Kits for detecting a polypeptide will typically comprise a monoclonal antibody that specifically
binds mesothelin, such as any of the antibodies disclosed herein. In some embodiments, an
antibody fragment, such as an scFv fragment, a VH domain, or a Fab is included in the kit. In a
further embodiment, the antibody is labeled (for example, with a fluorescent, radioactive, or an
enzymatic label).
          In one embodiment, a kit includes instructional materials disclosing means of use of an
antibody that binds mesothelin. The instructional materials may be written, in an electronic form
(such as a computer diskette or compact disk) or may be visual (such as video files). The kits may
also include additional components to facilitate the particular application for which the kit is
designed. Thus, for example, the kit may additionally contain means of detecting a label (such as
enzyme substrates for enzymatic labels, filter sets to detect fluorescent labels, appropriate
secondary labels such as a secondary antibody, or the like). The kits may additionally include
buffers and other reagents routinely used for the practice of a particular method. Such kits and
appropriate contents are well known to those of skill in the art.
          In one embodiment, the diagnostic kit comprises an immunoassay. Although the details of
the immunoassays may vary with the particular format employed, the method of detecting
mesothelin in a biological sample generally includes the steps of contacting the biological sample
with an antibody which specifically reacts, under immunologically reactive conditions, to a
mesothelin polypeptide. The antibody is allowed to specifically bind under immunologically
reactive conditions to form an immune complex, and the presence of the immune complex (bound
antibody) is detected directly or indirectly.
          Methods of determining the presence or absence of a cell surface marker are well known in
the art. For example, the antibodies can be conjugated to other compounds including, but not
                                                  - 48
3598387vl

limited to, enzymes, magnetic beads, colloidal magnetic beads, haptens, fluorochromes, metal
compounds, radioactive compounds or drugs. The antibodies can also be utilized in immunoassays
such as but not limited to radioimmunoassays (RIAs), ELISA, or immunohistochemical assays.
The antibodies can also be used for fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). FACS employs a
plurality of color channels, low angle and obtuse light-scattering detection channels, and impedance
channels, among other more sophisticated levels of detection, to separate or sort cells (see U.S.
Patent No. 5, 061,620). Any of the monoclonal antibodies that bind mesothelin, as disclosed
herein, can be used in these assays. Thus, the antibodies can be used in a conventional
immunoassay, including, without limitation, an ELISA, an RIA, FACS, tissue
immunohistochemistry, Western blot or immunoprecipitation.
          C.     Engineered Cytotoxic T Lymphocytes (CTLs)
          The disclosed monoclonal antibodies can also be used to produce CTLs engineered to
express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs; also known as chimeric T cell receptors, artificial T cell
receptors or chimeric immunoreceptors). Generally, CARs include a binding moiety, an
extracellular hinge and spacer element, a transmembrane region and an endodomain that performs
signaling functions (Cartellieri et al., JBiomedBiotechnol 2010:956304, 2010). In many instances,
the binding moiety is an antigen binding fragment of a monoclonal antibody, such as a scFv.
Several different endodomains have been used to generate CARs. For example, the endodomain
can consist of a signaling chain having an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM),
such as CD3( or FceRly. In some instances, the endodomain further includes the intracellular
portion of at least one additional co-stimulatory domain, such as CD28 and/or CD137.
          CTLs expressing CARs can be used to target a specific cell type, such as a tumor cell.
Thus, the monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein can be used to engineer CTLs that express a CAR
containing an antigen-binding fragment of a mesothelin-specific antibody, thereby targeting the
engineered CTLs to mesothelin-expressing tumor cells. Engineered T cells have previously used
for adoptive therapy for some types of cancer (see, for example, Park et al., Mol Ther 15(4):825
833, 2007). The use of T cells expressing CARs is more universal than standard CTL-based
immunotherapy because CTLs expressing CARs are HLA unrestricted and can therefore be used
for any patient having a tumor that expressed the target antigen.
          Accordingly, provided herein are CARs comprising a mesothelin-specific antibody binding
fragment, such as a scFv. Also provided are isolated nucleic acid molecules and vectors encoding
                                                 - 49
3598387vl

the CARs, and host cells, such as CTLs, comprising the nucleic acid molecules or vectors. CTLs
expressing CARs comprised of a mesothelin-specific antibody binding fragment can be used for the
treatment of cancers that express mesothelin, such as mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer,
stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or
ovarian cancer. Thus, provided herein are methods of treating a subject with cancer by selecting a
subject with a cancer that expresses mesothelin, and administering to the subject a therapeutically
effective amount of the CTLs expressing the mesothelin-targeted CARs.
          D.     Bispecific Antibodies
          Bispecific antibodies are recombinant proteins comprised of antigen-binding fragments of
two different monoclonal antibodies. Thus, bispecific antibodies bind two different antigens.
Bispecific antibodies can be used for cancer immunotherapy by simultaneously targeting both
CTLs (such as a CTL receptor component such as CD3) and a tumor antigen. The mesothelin
specific monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein can be used to generate bispecific antibodies that
target both mesothelin and CTLs, thereby providing a means to treat mesothelin-expressing
cancers.
          Provided herein are bispecific monoclonal antibodies comprising a mesothelin- specific
monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof In some embodiments, the bispecific
monoclonal antibody further comprises a monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment
thereof, that specifically binds a component of the T cell receptor, such as CD3. Also provided are
isolated nucleic acid molecules and vectors encoding the bispecific antibodies, and host cells
comprising the nucleic acid molecules or vectors. Bispecific antibodies comprising a mesothelin
specific antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, can be used for the treatment of cancers that
express mesothelin, such as mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous
cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer. Thus,
provided herein are methods of treating a subject with cancer by selecting a subject with a cancer
that expresses mesothelin, and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the
mesothelin-targeting bispecific antibody.
          The following examples are provided to illustrate certain particular features and/or
embodiments. These examples should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the particular
features or embodiments described.
                                                 - 50
3598387vl

                                              EXAMPLES
Example 1: Identification and characterization of rabbit monoclonal antibodies specific for
mesothelin
          This example describes the identification of several rabbit monoclonal antibodies that
specifically bind Region II, Region III or a conformational epitope of mesothelin. Characterization
of the antibodies confirmed they do not compete for binding with current mesothelin-specific
therapeutic antibodies, including SSIP and MORAb-009, which bind Region I of cell-surface
mesothelin.
Background
          The structure of cell-surface mesothelin is depicted in FIG. 1. All anti-mesothelin
therapeutic antibodies generated to date recognize epitopes within the highly immunogenic N
terminal Region I of cell-surface mesothelin, which binds mucin MUC16/CA125. Autoantibodies,
or soluble MUCI 6/CA1 25 in patients may sequester anti-Region I antibodies, limiting their anti
cancer efficacy. Furthermore, when measuring soluble mesothelin for follow-up of patients in
clinical trials treated with MORAb-009 (amatuximab), the FDA approved MesoMarkm kit fails to
detect serum mesothelin because it forms a complex with MORAb-009. The epitope of MORAb
009 overlaps that of an anti-Region I antibody used in MesoMark TM. Thus, for both diagnostic and
therapeutic purposes, it is desirable to identify a high-affinity mesothelin-specific monoclonal
antibody that does not bind Region I of mesothelin.
Discovery of rabbit mAbs specific for various domains of mesothelin
          To identify mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibodies that do not compete for binding with
Region I antibodies, 232 rabbit mAbs were selected based on their ELISA binding signal to
mesothelin protein. To do this, three mesothelin fragments were produced: Region I (residues
296-390), Region II (residues 391-486) and Region III (residues 487-598) (SEQ ID NO: 7;
Kaneko et al., JBiol Chem 284: 3739-3749, 2009). The mesothelin fragments were used to select
domain-specific rabbit mAbs by ELISA. Of the clones screened, 223 (96%) bound Region 1, 5
clones bound Region II and 3 clones bound Region III. In addition, one clone that binds a
confirmation sensitive epitope was identified.
                                                   -51
3598387vl

          Region I, Region 11, Region III and confirmation sensitive mAb clones were evaluated by
ELISA. ELISA plates were coated with full-length mesothelin, or Region I, Region II or Region
III mesothelin fragments. Rabbit hybridoma supernatants were added to the ELISA plates and
rabbit mAb binding to mesothelin or its fragments was detected by a goat anti-rabbit IgG light
chain-specific HRP conjugate (FIGS. 2A-2D). The results demonstrated that Region 1, Region 11
and Region III specific antibodies were capable of binding their respective mesothelin fragment, as
well as full-length mesothelin. Confirmation-sensitive mAb clones bound only full-length
mesothelin.
          To evaluate binding of the rabbit mAb clones to cell-surface mesothelin, FACS analysis
using NCI-H226 cells (a mesothelioma cell line) was performed. NCI-H226 cells (1 x 106) were
incubated with rabbit hybridoma supernatant (1:2 dilutions in FACS buffer). The binding of rabbit
mAbs to cell surface mesothelin was detected by a goat anti-rabbit IgG PE conjugate. As shown in
FIGS. 3A-3D, Region I, Region II, Region III and confirmation-sensitive mAbs clones were all
capable of binding cell-surface mesothelin.
Characterization of the high-affinity mAb binding sites
          Based on the binding data described above, four clones were selected for further analysis:
          YP187 - Region II binder
          YP223 - Region 11 binder
          YP218 - Region III binder
          YP3 - confirmation sensitive
          Sandwich ELISAs were used to determine whether rabbit mAbs bind sites in mesothelin
that are different from the SSIP/MORAb-009 (Region I) site. In a first experiment, binding of
YP187, YP223, YP218 and YP3 to recombinant mesothelin in the presence of SS1P was evaluated
using varying concentrations of each mAb clone. ELISA plates were coated with the SS1P
immunotoxin (1 pg/ml). Recombinant mesothelin protein (I pig/ml) was added to the plates. After
washing, rabbit mAb supernatant (serially diluted 1:3) was added and goat anti-rabbit IgG light
chain HRP conjugate (1:5000) was used to detect rabbit mAb binding. The results demonstrate that
YP187, YP223, YP218 and YP3 all recognize sites different from the SSIP site (FIG. 4).
                                                  - 52
3598387vl

          In a second experiment, binding of YP187, YP223, YP218 and YP3 to recombinant
mesothelin in the presence of SS1P was evaluated using varying concentrations of recombinant
mesothelin. The SSIP immunotoxin (5 pg/ml) was coated on ELISA plates. Recombinant
mesothelin protein (starting from 10 pg/ml) was serially diluted 1:3 and added to the ELISA plates.
After washing, rabbit mAb supernatant (1:5) was added and goat anti-rabbit IgG light chain
(1:5000) HRP conjugate was used to detect rabbit mAb binding. As shown in FIG. 5, YP187,
YP223, YP218 and YP3 recognize sites different from the SS1P site. Excluding YP187, all other
rabbit mAbs (YP223, YP218 and YP3) bind mesothelin in a dose-dependent manner. The YP187
mAb partially competes with SSIP for mesothelin, indicating that the YP187 site (in Region 11)
may be close to the SS1P site in Region I.
          These results demonstrate that the YP223 (Region II), YP218 (Region 111) and YP3
(conformation sensitive) rabbit mAbs do not bind an epitope overlapping the MORAb-009/SS IP
site (Region 1). The YP187 (Region II) mAb partially competes with SS1P for mesothelin,
indicating that the YP187 site may be close to the SSIP site in Region I.
Binding affinity of rabbit mAb clones
          Binding affmity of YP223, YP218 and YP3 for mesothelin was evaluated by ELISA.
Various amounts of a rabbit mAb were incubated with a fixed amount of mesothelin (1 ptg/ml) at
room temperature for 1 hour, after which the plates were washed and a standard ELISA procedure
was followed to measure rabbit mAb binding on mesothelin. The affinity Kd value was determined
by Prism (version 3.02) for Windows (GraphPad software, San Diego, CA). As shown in FIGS.
6A-6C, all rabbit mAbs have high, subnanomolar affinity for mesothelin. In particular, the KD
values were 0.65 nM for YP223, 0.91 nM for YP218 and 0.42 nM for YP3.
          Next, a study was performed to evaluate detection of soluble mesothelin proteins in culture
supernatant using the rabbit mAb clones. The H9 and K5 cell lines are widely used in xenograft
models to evaluate mesothelin-targeted cancer therapy in mice. The K5 cell line expresses a form
of mesothelin having a 10-amino acid deletion (residues 411-420) in Region 11, while the H9 cell
line expresses full-length, wild type mesothelin.
          ELISA plates were coated with SS1P (5 ig/ml). H9 or K5 culture supernatant (serially
diluted 1:3) was added. After washing, rabbit mAb culture supernatant (1:5) was added. Goat anti
                                                 - 53
3598387vl

rabbit light chain-specific HRP conjugate (1:5000) was used to detect rabbit mAb binding (FIGS.
7A-7B).
          The Region II, Region III, and conformation sensitive mAbs bound wild type mesothelin in
the H9 cell line. However, both Region II (YP223) and Region III (YP218) mAbs, but not the
conformation sensitive (YP3) mAb, weakly bound the mutant mesothelin with a 10-amino acid
deletion expressed by the K5 cell line, indicating YP3 recognizes a native conformation specific to
the conformation of wild type mesothelin.
Detection of soluble mesothelin by sandwich ELISA
          Nunc MaxiSorp 96-well flat-bottomed plates were coated overnight with 5 pig/ml of YP223
(Region II binder) in PBS. Purified mesothelin-Fc fusion protein was diluted at different
concentrations (from 0.25 to 8 nM) in ELISA buffer (0.01% Tween 20, 10% Pierce SuperBlock)
and incubated on a plate for 1 hour at room temperature. For SSIP competition assay, 5 pLg/mL
SS1P was pre-incubated with mesothelin-Fc fusion protein for 1 hour at room temperature and then
the mixtures (SSIP and mesothelin) were added into the plate. To detect soluble mesothelin, plates
were then incubated with 5 jig/mL biotinylated YP218 (Region III binder) for 1 hour at room
temperature; subsequently a 1:2000 dilution of Streptavidin - HRP (Invitrogen) was added to the
plate for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed four times between each coating.
Visualization was achieved with 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine detection reagent (KPL) and
absorbance was read at 450 nm with SpectraMax Plus plate reader (Molecular Devices). The
results are shown in FIG. 10.
          These results demonstrate the establishment of a new sandwich ELISA method using the
YP223 and YP218 rabbit antibodies to measure soluble mesothelin protein in the presence of the
SS1P immunotoxin. The presence of SSIP does not affect the binding of YP223 or YP218 to
mesothelin. The new sandwich ELISA assay is highly sensitive because (1) its EC 50 is around 0.5
nM and (2) it can detect 0.2 nM of soluble mesothelin protein.
Example 2: High-affinity rabbit mAb specific for Region I mesothelin
          This example describes the identification and characterization of a rabbit mAb clone that
binds Region I of native mesothelin in cancer cells and tissues with high affinity and specificity.
                                                  - 54
3598387vl

          As described in Example 1, 223 rabbit mAb clones were identified that bound mesothelin
Region I (residues 296-390). Among the high-affinity binders in this group, YP158 was identified.
YP158 is highly specific for mesothelin in cancer cells and tissues.
          To evaluate binding of YP158 to human cancer cells, immunoblot analysis using a panel of
liver cancer cell lines and cancer specimens was carried out. As shown in FIGS. 8A-8B, YP158 is
capable of detecting native mesothelin in cancer cells. The capacity of YP158 to detect native
mesothelin in immunoprecipitated complexes was next evaluated. In this experiment,
immunoprecipitation of endogenous mesothelin protein in A43 1/19 (forced expression of
mesothelin in epidermoid carcinoma A431 cell line), NCI-H226 (mesothelioma) and KMBC
(cholangiocarcinoma) cell extracts was carried out. A human mAb to mesothelin was used to
immunoprecipitate endogenous mesothelin protein in the cell lysate. YP158 was used to probe
native mesothelin in the immunoprecipitated proteins (FIG. 9).
          These results demonstrate that YP158 binds native mesothelin protein in cancer cells and
tissues with very high affinity and specificity.
Example 3: Generation and characterization of CD22-specific immunotoxins
          Recombinant immunotoxins were generated using YP3, YP218, YP223 and YP187 scFv
fused to Pseudomonas exotoxin fragment PE38 (SEQ ID NO: 2), following standard techniques.
Briefly, in each immunotoxin construct, the antibody VH domain was fused to the VL domain
using a linker sequence encoding the peptide (Gly 4 Ser) 3 (amino acid residues 125-139 of SEQ ID
NO: 31). The antibody VL domain was fused to PE38 using a short linker sequence (ASGG;
amino acid residues 251-254 of SEQ ID NO: 31). The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the
YP218scFv-PE38, humanized YP213scFv-PE38, YP223scFv-PE3 8, YP3scFv-PE38 and
YPI87scFv-PE38 immunotoxins are set forth herein as SEQ ID NOs: 30-39.
          Binding affinity ofthe YP3scFv-PE38, YP218scFv-PE38 and YP223scFv-PE38
immunotoxins for a panel of tumor cells expressing mesothelin was evaluated by flow cytometry.
Cytotoxicity of the YP3scFv-PE38, YP218scFv-PE38 and YP223scFv-PE38 immunotoxins was
also evaluated on the mesothelin-expressing tumor cells. Mesothelin-specific immunotoxin SS IP
was used as a positive control and the HB21-PE40 immunotoxin (specific for human transferrin
receptor) was used as a negative control. The results are summarized in Table 6 below. All three
immunotoxins bound the mesothelin-positive cell lines with varying affinities, with YP218scFv
                                                 - 55
3598387vl

PE38 exhibiting the greatest affinity. YP218scFv-PE38 also induced the greatest cytotoxicity of
mesothelin-expressing tumor cells.
        Table 6. Summary of cytotoxicity and affinity of anti-mesothelin immunotoxins on
                                          mesothelin-expressing cells
                                         control  SS1P     YP3ScFv- YP218ScFv- YP223ScFv- HIB21
           Cell line
                                                             PE38      PE38       PE38    PE40
                                                                       0.88       44.34
              H9        IC50 (ng ml-1 )  >1000    0.076       1.19
                        Kd (nM)                   4.82        3.74     6.56       46.18
                       IC50 (ng ml~1)    >1000     1.82      2.47      3.57       17.92
           OVCAR8
                        Kd (nM)                    0.60       1.39      1.74       9.93
                                     1   >1000     1.20      2.27      3.28      177.12    0.12
       NCI-ADR-RES IC50 (ng ml- )
                        Kd (nM)                    1.41       3.33     3.25      >22.86    10.82
                       IC50 (ng ml-1 )   >1000     5.29      10.11      1.58      33.73
          NCI-H226
                        Kd (nM)                    1.49       5.82    >3.216     >52.52
                                         >1000     5.89      21.89     15.81     345.53    0.57
             L55       IC50 (ng nl-')
                        Kd (nM)                    1.04      2.62      2.37       10.05    9.74
                                                                       75.54      >300     0.21
            EKVX        IC50 (ng ml-1)    >500    55.38      24.86
                        Kd (nM)                     1.7       1.20      1.16      >157     6.28
                                                                                 >1000     0.31
        NCI-H322M       IC50 (ng ml-1 )   >300    4.02        3.42     12.73
                        Kd (nM)                    0.44       1.04     2.02        8.65    6.05
                        IC50 (ng ml-1 )  >1000     3.39      14.11     11.91     151.56
            KMBC
                        Kd (nM)                   2.15        0.42      1.40       6.41
                       IC50 (ng mU-1)    >1000     7.23      14.87     39.86     215.01
            KMCH
                       Kd (nM)                     1.26       0.68      1.72       7.58
                       IC50 (ng ml-1 )   >1000    21.57     >1000     >1000      >1000
           Mz-Cha-1
                        Kd (nM)                    1.30      4.60      3.99       29.50
                                     1   >1000     7.13      16.01     18.74     >1000     0.51
             M30        IC50 (ng mU- )
                        Kd (nM)                    0.49       1.67      1.98      12.13     13
                                                                       39.80     231.42    0.27
             YOU        IC50 (ng mU- 1) >1000     13.00      21.67
                        Kd (nM)                    1.48       3.7      6.80       27.68    24.7
            A431*       IC50 (ng ml~1) >100       >300       >300      >300       >300
                                    1
           H226-GL     IC50 (ng ml-    ) >1000     1.99       1.73     0.74       51.39    0.22
           mesothelin negative
          In addition, binding affinity of YP3scFv-PE38, YP187scFv-PE38, YP218scFv-PE38, its
humanized version hYP218scFv-PE38, and YP223scFv-PE38 for H9 cells was evaluated by flow
cytometry. The results are shown in FIG. 11 and summarized below in Table 7. Humanization of
the YP218scFv-PE38 immunotoxin did not significantly alter its binding affinity for mesothelin
positive H9 cells.
                         Table 7. Binding affinity of immunotoxins for H9 cells
                                                      - 56
3598387vl

                                       Immunotoxin           Kd (nM)
                                           SSIP                 1.3
                                       YP3ScFv-PE38           2.352
                                     YP218ScFv-PE38           3.865
                                     YP223ScFv-PE38           25.21
                                     YP187ScFv-PE38           >158
                                    hYP218ScFv-PE38           3.607
          Next, cytotoxicity of YP218scFv-PE38 against four malignant mesothelioma patient
primary cell lines was compared with cytotoxicity of the SS1P immunotoxin. Of the four primary
cell lines (RH16, RH18, RH19 and RH2 1), three were sensitive to the anti-mesothelin
immunotoxins. Of the three primary lines that were sensitive (RH16, RH19 and RH21),
YP218scFv-PE38 was 2- to 5-fold more potent than SS1P (see FIG. 12 and Table 8).
   Table 8. Cytotoxicity of YP218scFv-PE38 against four mesothelioma patient primary cell
                                                 lines
                   Malignant Mesothelioma              SS1P         YP218scFv-PE38
                         Patient Cells            IC5 0 (ng/ml)       IC50 (ng/ml)
                             RH16                       10.4                2.0
                             RH18                     > 100               > 100
                             RH19                      0.63                0.33
                             RH21                      0.73                0.23
          The YP218scFv-PE38 was further evaluated in the NCI-H226 human mesothelioma model
in nude mice. Six-week female BALB/c nu/nu mice were intraperitoneally inoculated with 3x106
NCI-H226 mesothelioma cells that stably express high levels of Luc/GFP. Mice were
intraperitoneally administered with SS1P (0.4 mg/kg), YP218scFv-PE38 (0.4 mg/kg) or vehicle
(PBS) at days 12, 14, 16 and 18. Both SS1P and YP218-PE38 immunotoxins inhibited tumor
growth effectively during the treatment. However, remnant mesothelioma tumor cells caused
relapse quickly after the SS IP treatment was finished, while the relapse of mesothelioma in the
YP218scFv-PE38 group was significantly slower (FIG. 13). Two out of five mice in the
YP218scFv-PE38 group were almost tumor free while all the mice in the SS1P group had tumors
on Day 25 and Day 27.
                                                - 57
3598387vl

Example 4: Mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibodies for detecting cancer in a subject or
confirming the diagnosis of cancer in a subject
          This example describes the use of mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibodies, such as the
rabbit monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein or humanized or labeled versions of these antibodies,
for the detection of cancer in a subject. This example further describes the use of these antibodies
to confirm the diagnosis of cancer in a subject.
          A blood sample is obtained from the patient diagnosed with, or suspected of having a
mesothelin-positive cancer (i.e., a cancer that overexpresses mesothelin, such as mesothelioma,
prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer,
cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer). A blood sample taken from a patient that
does not have cancer can be used as a control. An ELISA is performed to detect the presence of
soluble mesothelin in the blood sample. Proteins present in the blood samples (the patient sample
and control sample) are immobilized on a solid support, such as a 96-well plate, according to
methods well known in the art (see, for example, Robinson et al., Lancet 362:1612-1616, 2003).
Following immobilization, mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibody directly labeled with a
fluorescent marker is applied to the protein-immobilized plate. The plate is washed in an
appropriate buffer, such as PBS, to remove any unbound antibody and to minimize non-specific
binding of antibody. Fluorescence can be detected using a fluorometric plate reader according to
standard methods. An increase in fluorescence intensity of the patient sample, relative to the
control sample, indicates the anti-mesothelin antibody specifically bound proteins from the blood
sample, thus detecting the presence of mesothelin protein in the sample. Detection of mesothelin
protein in the patient sample indicates the patient has a mesothelin-positive cancer, or confirms
diagnosis of cancer in the subject.
Example 5: Mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of cancer
            This example describes the use of mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibodies, such as the
rabbit monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein or humanized versions of these antibodies, for the
treatment of cancers that exhibit overexpression of mesothelin (referred to herein as a "mesothelin
positive" cancer), including, but not limited to mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach
cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian
                                                 - 58
3598387vl

cancer. Patients diagnosed with a mesothelin-positive cancer can be treated according to standard
procedures in the art (see, for example, Hassan et al., Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 21:29a, 2002;
Kreiman et al., Proc. Am. Soc. Clinl Oncol. 21:22b, 2002).
            In this example, patients diagnosed with a mesothelin-positive cancer are administered an
immunoconjugate comprising a mesothelin-specific monoclonal antibody linked to Pseudomonas
exotoxin (PE). Preparation of PE immunoconjugates has been described (see, for example, U.S.
Patent No. 7,081,518 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0214304). In some
patients, the immunoconjugate is administered by intravenous bolus injection every other day for a
total of three to six doses. In other patients, the immunoconjugate is administered by continuous
intravenous infusion over the course of ten days. The dose of immunoconjugate administered to a
patient varies depending on the weight and gender of the patient, and mode and time course of
administration. Following treatment, patients are evaluated for cancer progression (including
tumor growth and metastasis) and other clinical signs of illness.
          In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosed
invention may be applied, it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only
preferred examples of the invention and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.
Rather, the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our
invention all that comes within the scope and spirit of these claims.
                                                   - 59
3598387vl

                                              CLAIMS
                1.     An isolated monoclonal antibody that binds mesothelin, wherein:
               the VH domain of the antibody comprises amino acid residues 31-36, 51-68 and
     100-112 of SEQ ID NO: 13; and the VL domain of the antibody comprises amino acid
  5  residues 24-34, 50-56 and 89-101 of SEQ ID NO: 15.
               2.     The isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1, wherein:
               the amino acid sequence of the VH domain is at least 90% identical to SEQ ID
     NO: 13; and the amino acid sequence of the VL domain is at least 90% identical to SEQ
 10  ID NO: 15.
               3.     The isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 1, wherein the amino acid
     sequence of the VH domain is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 13; and the amino
     acid sequence of the VL domain is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 15.
 15
              4.      The isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-3, wherein:
              the VH domain of the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 13 and the VL domain of
    the antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 15.
20            5.      The isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the
    antibody is a Fab fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab)' 2 fragment, a single chain variable
    fragment (scFv), or a disulfide stabilized variable fragment (dsFv).
              6.      The isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the
25  antibody is an IgG.
              7.      The isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the
    antibody is chimeric, synthetic, or humanized.
30            8.      The isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the
    antibody is labeled.
              9.      The isolated monoclonal antibody of claim 8, wherein the label is a
    fluorescence, enzymatic, or radioactive label.
35
                                               - 60
    3598373vl

              10.     An isolated immunoconjugate comprising the monoclonal antibody of
     any one of claims 1-7 and an effector molecule.
              11.     The isolated immunoconjugate of claim 10, wherein the effector
  5  molecule is a toxin.
              12.     The isolated immunoconjugate of claim 11, wherein the toxin is
    Pseudomonas exotoxin or a variant thereof
 10           13.     The isolated immunoconjugate of claim 12, wherein the Pseudomonas
     exotoxin or a variant thereof comprises the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID
    NOs: 1-6.
              14.     The isolated immunoconjugate of any one of claims 10-13, comprising
15  the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 31 or SEQ ID NO: 33.
              15.     A method of determining if a subject has cancer, comprising:
              contacting a sample from the subject with the monoclonal antibody of any one of
    claims 1-9;
20            detecting binding of the monoclonal antibody to the sample; and
              determining that the subject has cancer if an increase in binding of the
    monoclonal antibody to the sample is detected, as compared to binding of the
    monoclonal antibody to a control sample.
25            16.     A method of confirming a diagnosis of cancer in a subject, comprising:
              contacting a sample from a subject diagnosed with cancer with the monoclonal
    antibody of any one of claims 1-9;
              detecting binding of the monoclonal antibody to the sample; and
              confirming the diagnosis of cancer in the subject if an increase in binding of the
30  monoclonal antibody to the sample is detected, as compared to binding of the
    monoclonal antibody to a control sample.
              17.     The method of claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the cancer is
    mesothelioma, prostate cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, squamous cell carcinoma,
35  pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, breast cancer or ovarian cancer.
                                                - 61
    3598373vl

               18.    An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the monoclonal antibody of
      any one of claims 1-9 or the immunoconjugate of any one of claims 10-14.
  5            19.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 18, wherein:
               (i)    the nucleotide sequence encoding the VH domain of the monoclonal
     antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 12; and
              (ii)    the nucleotide sequence encoding the VL domain of the monoclonal
     antibody comprises SEQ ID NO: 14.
 10
              20.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 18, wherein the nucleotide
     sequence encoding the immunoconjugate comprises SEQ ID NO: 30 or SEQ ID NO: 32.
              21.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any one of claims 18-20, operably
15   linked to a promoter.
              22.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any one of claims 18-20, operably
     linked to a heterologous promoter.
              23.    An expression vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of
20   any one of claims 18-22.
              24.    An isolated host cell transformed with the nucleic acid molecule or
     expression vector of any one of claims 18-23.
25            25.    An isolated immunoconjugate comprising the monoclonal antibody of
    any one of claims 1-7 and a therapeutic agent.
              26.    The isolated immunoconjugate of claim 25, wherein the therapeutic
    agent comprises a drug.
30
              27.    A chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprising the monoclonal antibody
    of any one of claims 1-7.
              28.    The CAR of claim 27, wherein the monoclonal antibody is a scFv.
35
                                                - 62
    3598373vl

              29.    A bispecific antibody comprising the monoclonal antibody of any one of
     claims 1-7.
              30.    A composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the
  5  antibody of any one of claims 1-9, the immunoconjugate of any one of claims 10-14, 25
     or 26, the CAR of claim 27 or claim 28 or the bispecific antibody of claim 29, in a
     pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
              31.    A method of treating a cancer in a subject, comprising selecting a subject
 10  with a cancer that expresses mesothelin and administering to the subject the isolated
     monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-9, the immunoconjugate of any one of
     claims 10-14, 25 or 26, the CAR of claim 27 or claim 28, the bispecific antibody of
     claim 29 or the composition of claim 30, thereby treating the cancer in the subject.
 15           32.    A method of inhibiting tumor growth or metastasis in a subject,
     comprising selecting a subject with a cancer that expresses mesothelin and administering
    to the isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-9, the immunoconjugate of
     any one of claims 10-14, 25 or 26, the CAR of claim 27 or claim 28, the bispecific
    antibody of claim 29 or the composition of claim 30, thereby inhibiting tumor growth or
20  metastasis in the subject.
              33.    Use of the isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-9, the
    immunoconjugate of any one of claims 10-14, 25 or 26, the CAR of claim 27 or claim
    28, the bispecific antibody of claim 29 or the composition of claim 30, in the
25  manufacture of a medicament for treating cancer in a subject.
              34.    Use of the isolated monoclonal antibody of any one of claims 1-9, the
    immunoconjugate of any one of claims 10-14, 25 or 26, the CAR of claim 27 or claim
    28, the bispecific antibody of claim 29 or the composition of claim 30, in the
30  manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting tumor growth or metastasis in a subject.
                                               - 63
    3598373vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+2706><U+2706><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2711><U+2716><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2719><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+270F><U+270D><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2721><U+2723><U+271C><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+270C><U+2711><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2721>
                      <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D><U+271C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2718><U+271C><U+2725><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2723><U+2718><U+271C><U+2711><U+271B><U+2721><U+270C><U+2711> <U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+2718><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+2718><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271C><U+2726><U+270F><U+270D><U+2721><U+2720>
                      <U+2716><U+2727><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2605><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272C>
                      <U+2723><U+272D><U+272E><U+271E><U+272D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+270F><U+2730><U+272D> <U+2716><U+271D>
                      <U+2723><U+272A><U+2731><U+272F><U+2732><U+2722> <U+2725><U+272B><U+272F>
                      <U+2733><U+272A><U+272D><U+272F><U+2732><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2605><U+2734><U+272D><U+272F>
                      <U+2712><U+272D><U+2727><U+2722> <U+2735><U+272B><U+2605>
                      <U+2716><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+271C><U+272D><U+2734><U+2734><U+2605><U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+2706><U+2736><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+271B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2719><U+2711><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+271B><U+2718><U+270F><U+270C><U+2737><U+2720><U+2723><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+271A><U+270F><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2719><U+270C><U+2719><U+270D><U+270E><U+2719><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2718><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2724><U+2719><U+2717><U+270F><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2718><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2706> <U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738><U+2736> <U+2702><U+2737><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2737><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2706><U+2701><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+261E><U+2720> <U+2739><U+2706><U+273A><U+2739><U+2702><U+2706><U+2722><U+273B><U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2706><U+2701><U+2706><U+2715>   <U+2736><U+2714><U+2706><U+2736><U+2737><U+2714><U+2704><U+2737><U+2736><U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+2706><U+2739><U+2714><U+2715>       <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2706><U+273B><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2723><U+272D><U+271E><U+272B><U+272F><U+271E><U+270F><U+272F> <U+273C><U+272B><U+2730><U+272E><U+2605><U+2727><U+272F>   <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2736><U+2706><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+2736><U+2706><U+2706><U+2715>   <U+2739><U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+2736><U+2706><U+2736><U+2715>   <U+2723><U+271C><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2736><U+2706> <U+2715>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+272B><U+2731><U+273D><U+2727><U+273E><U+2727><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272D><U+272B><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2605><U+272F><U+2727><U+272E><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+2738><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2706>
              <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272A><U+272B> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2711><U+2730><U+273F> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+270D><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270D><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2714>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+271B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2723><U+2730><U+2727>
                          <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2701>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2711><U+272A><U+2730> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2712><U+272C><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2716><U+2605><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2740><U+2730> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+271B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2738><U+2714>                  <U+2738><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731>
                  <U+2701><U+2714>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2739><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2711><U+272A><U+2730> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2711><U+272A><U+2730> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731>
              <U+2739><U+2701>                  <U+273B><U+2714>                  <U+273B><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2730><U+2727> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2730><U+2727> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+2711><U+2740><U+2730> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2740><U+2730> <U+2711><U+272A><U+2730> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+2712><U+272C><U+272F> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+273F> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+273F> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2730><U+2727> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2716><U+2605><U+272E> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2730><U+2727> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F>
                          <U+2706><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2706><U+2714><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2723><U+272A><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2716><U+2605><U+272E> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+272F> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2716><U+2605><U+272E>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2706><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2723><U+2730><U+2727> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2740><U+2730> <U+2711><U+272A><U+2730> <U+270F><U+272C><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+271B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2740> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+270E><U+2740><U+272E>
                  <U+2706> <U+2714>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2738><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+2718><U+272E><U+273F> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272A><U+2730> <U+2723><U+272A><U+272B> <U+2723><U+272A><U+272B> <U+2726><U+272D><U+272C> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2732> <U+2718><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2716><U+2605><U+272E> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2720><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272C><U+2731>
              <U+2706><U+2738><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2739><U+2714>
                                                     <U+2723><U+272D><U+2732><U+272B> <U+2706>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271E>
                              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2724><U+2725>                 <U+2706><U+2724><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2727> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2727> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2725>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2725>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725>                 <U+2729><U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2727> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2729><U+2706><U+2725>                 <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725>
              <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+2729> <U+2725>                 <U+2729> <U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+272A><U+2725>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714>
                              <U+2729><U+272A><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721>
                          <U+2729><U+2723><U+2725>                 <U+2729><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2724><U+2725>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2727> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C>
                      <U+2729><U+2724><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2725>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2725>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2727> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C>
               <U+2725><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2725>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2729><U+2725>
              <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                               <U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2725>                   <U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726>
                           <U+272A><U+2725>                  <U+272A><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2725>                  <U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727>
                   <U+2724><U+2725>                  <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2725>
              <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+272A><U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271B><U+270C>
                              <U+272A><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+272A><U+2706><U+2725>                 <U+272A><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2726>
                          <U+272A><U+2729><U+2725>                 <U+272A><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+272A> <U+2725>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721> <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2712><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                   <U+270D><U+2716><U+2726><U+2721> <U+2729>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2720> <U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+2720><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2725><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715>
                              <U+2720><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C>
                          <U+2701><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2726><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715>
                  <U+2701> <U+2721>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C>
              <U+2701><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717>
                              <U+2701><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2722><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2722><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719>
                  <U+2722><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2721><U+272A>   <U+2726>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+2720><U+2725>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+2716><U+270C><U+271E><U+2605><U+272C><U+2605><U+272D><U+2605><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+272E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2718><U+272D><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+261B><U+2715><U+2718><U+271E><U+2713><U+261E><U+271E><U+2605><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2724><U+270E><U+2715><U+271A><U+261E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2605><U+272F><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272A>   <U+2726>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                          <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
                                                      <U+2712><U+2711><U+2717><U+261E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717>
              <U+2722><U+2701>                  <U+2725><U+2721>                  <U+2725><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2726><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                  <U+2706> <U+2721>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C>
                              <U+2706><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2725><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717>
                  <U+2726><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+2726> <U+2721>                 <U+2726> <U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                              <U+2726><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717>
                          <U+2726><U+2722><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2725><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C>
                      <U+2726><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+2726><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
               <U+2721><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2711><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2720>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+2721>                    <U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719>
                           <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>   <U+2726> <U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+2716><U+270C><U+271E><U+2605><U+272C><U+2605><U+272D><U+2605><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+272E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2718><U+272D><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+261B><U+2715><U+2718><U+271E><U+2713><U+261E><U+271E><U+2605><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2724><U+270E><U+2715><U+271A><U+261E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2605><U+272F><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718>
                          <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2722><U+2701>                  <U+2725><U+2721>                  <U+2725><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718>
                          <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2726><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E>
                  <U+2706> <U+2721>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                              <U+2706><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2725><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2721><U+2701>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2711><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                  <U+2726><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+2726> <U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2721><U+272A>   <U+2720>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>   <U+2726> <U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+2716><U+270C><U+271E><U+2605><U+272C><U+2605><U+272D><U+2605><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+272E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2718><U+272D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+261B><U+2715><U+2718><U+271E><U+2713><U+261E><U+271E><U+2605><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2724><U+270E><U+2715><U+271A><U+261E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2605><U+272F><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272A>   <U+2720>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718>
                          <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2722><U+2701>                  <U+2725><U+2721>                  <U+2725><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718>
                          <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2726><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E>
                  <U+2706> <U+2721>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                              <U+2706><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2725><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2721><U+2701>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2711><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2722>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724>
                  <U+2726><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2726><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2715><U+2719>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+2726> <U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2721><U+272A>   <U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>   <U+2726> <U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+2716><U+270C><U+271E><U+2605><U+272C><U+2605><U+272D><U+2605><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+272E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2718><U+272D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+261B><U+2715><U+2718><U+271E><U+2713><U+261E><U+271E><U+2605><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2724><U+270E><U+2715><U+271A><U+261E><U+271A><U+271E><U+2605><U+272F><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2726> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726> <U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2720><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2720><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2704><U+2720><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2725><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2725><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2706> <U+2721><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2721><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2706><U+2722><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+2722><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2726><U+2721><U+2725><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2721><U+2725><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2706><U+272A>    <U+270D><U+261B><U+2730><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A>   <U+260E><U+2726><U+2721><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2721><U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272A>   <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+271F> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272A>   <U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271D><U+2711><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718>
                          <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2723><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2711><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2725>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2701>                   <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726>
              <U+271C><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2721>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722>
                          <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D>
                  <U+2706> <U+2721>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711>
              <U+2706><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                              <U+2706><U+271C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                  <U+2729><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+2729> <U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2721><U+272B>   <U+271C>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2706><U+272B>   <U+2729> <U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2729><U+272B>   <U+2713><U+272C><U+270F>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706> <U+272B>   <U+271B><U+2711><U+271E><U+2717><U+272D><U+2717><U+272E><U+2717><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+272F><U+271A><U+2715><U+2722><U+272E><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272B>   <U+2723><U+270E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2714><U+2715><U+271E><U+2717><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2605><U+270D><U+270E><U+2726><U+2715><U+2726><U+271E><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272B>   <U+271C>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722>
                          <U+2729><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
                                                     <U+2713><U+261E><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726>
              <U+271C><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2721>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722>
                          <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D>
                  <U+2706> <U+2721>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711>
              <U+2706><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                              <U+2706><U+271C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                  <U+2729><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+2729> <U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2721><U+272B>   <U+2727>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2706><U+272B>   <U+271C> <U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2729><U+272B>   <U+2713><U+272C><U+270F>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706> <U+272B>   <U+2716><U+2605> <U+2605> <U+2718><U+261E><U+2726><U+2717><U+2715><U+2722><U+2718>
              <U+272A><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272B>   <U+2727>
              <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722>
                          <U+2729><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261E><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A>
              <U+271C><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2721>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                          <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715>
                  <U+2706> <U+2721>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722>
              <U+2706><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                              <U+2706><U+271C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725>
                  <U+2729><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+2729> <U+2721>                 <U+2729> <U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                              <U+2729><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725>
                          <U+2729><U+271C><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+271C><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2727><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715>
                      <U+2729><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>
               <U+2721><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2729><U+2721>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261E><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2721>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E>
                               <U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2721>                   <U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                           <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+2721>
              <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+271C><U+2721>                  <U+271C><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715>
                   <U+2727><U+2721>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722>
                          <U+2720><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+2720> <U+2721>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711>
                      <U+2720> <U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711>
                  <U+2720><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+271C><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2727><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722>
                              <U+2720><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2720><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605>
                          <U+2701><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2721><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D>
                  <U+2701> <U+2721>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+2701><U+2720><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722>
                              <U+2701><U+271C><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2727><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2721>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261E><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2706>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+271C><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+271C><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                  <U+271C><U+2706><U+2721>                 <U+271C><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+271C><U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2729><U+2701>                 <U+271C> <U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2721><U+272B>    <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2706><U+272B>     <U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2729><U+272B>      <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706> <U+272B>    <U+271B><U+2711><U+271E><U+2717><U+272D><U+2717><U+272E><U+2717><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+272F><U+271A><U+2715><U+2722><U+272E><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272B>    <U+2723><U+270E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2714><U+2715><U+271E><U+2717><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2605><U+270D><U+270E><U+2722><U+271A><U+272E><U+270D><U+2715><U+2605><U+271E><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272B> <U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E> <U+272E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+261E><U+272E> <U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+271E><U+272E> <U+272E><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+261E><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271E><U+272E>    <U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+272E><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+272E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2725> <U+272E><U+272E><U+271E><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+261E><U+2725><U+261E><U+272E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+261E><U+2725><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E><U+271E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+271E><U+261E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E><U+272E><U+2725><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+2725><U+272E><U+271E><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E> <U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+271E><U+272E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E><U+261E><U+271E><U+261E> <U+272E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+272E> <U+271E><U+261E><U+261E><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+261E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271E><U+272E><U+272E><U+2725><U+272E><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+261E><U+261E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+272E><U+272E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+272E> <U+261E><U+271E><U+272E><U+271E><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+261E><U+261E> <U+2725><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E><U+272E><U+271E> <U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2729><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2725><U+261E><U+271E><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+261E><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+261E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+272E><U+272E><U+2725><U+272E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+261E><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+2725><U+2725><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E> <U+272E><U+272E><U+271E><U+261E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+272E><U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+261E><U+2725><U+261E><U+271E>    <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+2725><U+261E><U+261E><U+271E><U+272E><U+271E><U+261E><U+261E><U+271E><U+261E> <U+261E><U+271E><U+2725><U+261E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+261E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272E><U+272E> <U+272E><U+261E><U+2725><U+2725><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E><U+261E><U+272E><U+272E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272E>    <U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+271E><U+272E><U+272E><U+271E><U+272E><U+261E>                                                               <U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2721><U+272B>    <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2706><U+272B>    <U+2706><U+2729><U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706><U+2729><U+272B>    <U+2713><U+272C><U+270F>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2706> <U+272B>    <U+271B><U+2711><U+271E><U+2717><U+272D><U+2717><U+272E><U+2717><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2715><U+272F><U+271A><U+2715><U+2722><U+272E><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272B>    <U+2723><U+270E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2714><U+2715><U+271E><U+2717><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2605><U+270D><U+270E><U+2726><U+2715><U+2726><U+271E><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+272B>    <U+2702>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2721>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711>
                          <U+2729><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2721>
              <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+2721>                  <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2726>
                  <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+271C><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2724><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2711><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261E><U+270D>
              <U+271C><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2721>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2715><U+271E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261E><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2729>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711>
                          <U+2706><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>    <U+2723><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+261E>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+272B><U+270C><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B> <U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F> <U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F> <U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E>    <U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B>                                        <U+2723><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+271B><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2718><U+2730><U+2717>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2731><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+271B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E>
                          <U+2723><U+271B>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                   <U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+271B>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
                  <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272F><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C>
                          <U+2706><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>
                                                  <U+2718><U+270D><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2706>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>    <U+272F><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+261E>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+272B><U+270C><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2706><U+2723>
              <U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B> <U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B> <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E>    <U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D>                                                            <U+272F><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2718><U+2730><U+2717>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+271B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E>
                          <U+2723><U+271B>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                   <U+271B>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+271B>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>
                  <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+272F><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713>
                          <U+2706><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+272E>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>     <U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+261E>
                                                  <U+2718><U+270D><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2706><U+272E>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+272B><U+270C><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2706><U+272E>
              <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B> <U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F> <U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E>    <U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B>                                      <U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2718><U+2730><U+2717>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2731><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+271B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E>
                          <U+2723><U+271B>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                   <U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+271B>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
                  <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272F><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711>    <U+2729><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C>
                            <U+2706><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+272F>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>    <U+2701><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+261E>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+272B><U+270C><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2706><U+272F>
              <U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E> <U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
                                                   <U+2718><U+270D><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B> <U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+271B>
              <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B> <U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B> <U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E>    <U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E> <U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D>       <U+2701><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2718><U+2730><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2726>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+271B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E>
                          <U+2723><U+271B>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                   <U+271B>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2731><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+271B>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+272F><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
                          <U+2706><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>    <U+2723><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+261E>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+272B><U+270C><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B> <U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F> <U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D> <U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+271B>
                                                  <U+2718><U+270D><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2706><U+272F>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E>    <U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B>                                        <U+2723><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+271B><U+2702>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2718><U+2730><U+2717>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2731><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+271B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
                          <U+2723><U+271B>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                   <U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+271B>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721>
                  <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272F><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2719><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C>
                          <U+2706><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>    <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+261E>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2721><U+2716><U+271E><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2711><U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+272B><U+270C><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+2729><U+272D><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+272E><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+272F><U+271B>
              <U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E> <U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D> <U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B> <U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F> <U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E> <U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+270F><U+271E> <U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270D><U+270D>   <U+2723><U+272E><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+272B> <U+271E><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+270F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+270D><U+272B><U+270F><U+270F><U+272B><U+272B> <U+270D><U+272B><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E>    <U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+270D><U+272B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+270D>                    <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+271B><U+2725>   <U+2723><U+2706>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2718><U+2730><U+2717>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2706> <U+2725>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272C><U+2713><U+2715><U+2716><U+272B><U+2715>
                                                  <U+2718><U+270D><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2726>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+2714><U+2711><U+2714><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2706>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725>
                          <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2701>                   <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2718><U+261B>                  <U+2718><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723>
                  <U+2701><U+261B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E>
              <U+272C><U+2701>                  <U+272D><U+261B>                  <U+272D><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C>
                          <U+2706><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2706><U+261B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>    <U+2721><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E>   <U+2721><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E>    <U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713>                                        <U+2721><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+261B><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2726><U+2732><U+2727>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+2714><U+2711><U+2714><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725>
                          <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2701>                   <U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2718><U+261B>                  <U+2718><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D>
                  <U+2701><U+261B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723>
              <U+272C><U+2701>                  <U+272D><U+261B>                  <U+272D><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716>
                          <U+2706><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2706><U+261B><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2718>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E>   <U+2721><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2726><U+2732><U+2727>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+2714><U+2711><U+2714><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A>
                          <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2701>                   <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2718><U+261B>                  <U+2718><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714>
                  <U+2701><U+261B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A>
              <U+272C><U+2701>                  <U+272D><U+261B>                  <U+272D><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715>
                          <U+2706><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2706><U+261B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+261B>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+272C>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+272C>
              <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E>   <U+2721><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E>    <U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2726><U+2732><U+2727>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+2714><U+2711><U+2714><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+272D>
              <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
                          <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2701>                   <U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2718><U+261B>                  <U+2718><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D>
                                                   <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                  <U+2701><U+261B>                    <U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723>
              <U+272C><U+2701>                  <U+272D><U+261B>                  <U+272D><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2712><U+2723> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716>
                          <U+2706><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2706><U+261B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>    <U+2721><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>     <U+272C><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>    <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>    <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725> <U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A>   <U+2721><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A>    <U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>    <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725>                                                            <U+272C><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>    <U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>    <U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>    <U+2726><U+2732><U+2727>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>    <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+2714><U+2711><U+2714><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>    <U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261B>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
                          <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2701>                   <U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2718><U+261B>                  <U+2718><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
                  <U+2701><U+261B>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2716><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716>
              <U+272C><U+2701>                  <U+272D><U+261B>                  <U+272D><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
                                                   <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2706>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+271A><U+272A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2723><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C>
                          <U+2706><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2706><U+261B><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2711><U+271A>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+261E>    <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261B><U+272C>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+261E>   <U+2722><U+271A><U+271E><U+2712><U+2730><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2711><U+2731><U+271C><U+2711><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2718><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725>     <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A>    <U+2721><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725>     <U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713>     <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713>    <U+2718><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2718><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A>   <U+272C><U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+272C><U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+272A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E>    <U+272D><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A>    <U+272D><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713>    <U+2704><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713>    <U+2702><U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A>    <U+2702><U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271E><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725> <U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+261B><U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A> <U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2718><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725> <U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2721><U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713>   <U+2706> <U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+272A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E> <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+2706> <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+272A><U+272A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+272A><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A><U+2713><U+2713><U+272A><U+272A>   <U+2706><U+2718><U+2718><U+261B>
                                                  <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2721>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E> <U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270C><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720>                                                              <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+261E><U+2712>     <U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>    <U+270C><U+261E><U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+270D><U+2712>    <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706> <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2721><U+2718><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+270D><U+261E><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2712>    <U+271B><U+2725><U+2724><U+271E><U+2726><U+271C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2727><U+271C><U+2727><U+271E><U+2718><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2712>     <U+2706>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C>
                          <U+270D><U+261E>                  <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
                  <U+2701><U+261E>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
              <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+261E>                  <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261E>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724>
                          <U+2706><U+261E><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+261E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270D><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                  <U+2706> <U+261E>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C>
              <U+2706><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                              <U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+2701>
                                                  <U+2713><U+2720><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270D>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+270D><U+261E><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                  <U+270D><U+2706><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727>     <U+2718><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+270D> <U+261E>                 <U+270D> <U+2701>                    <U+270D><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                              <U+270D><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+270D><U+2701><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>   <U+2718><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E>    <U+2718><U+272E> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
                          <U+270D><U+270C><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+270C><U+2701>                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B>   <U+2718><U+272E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
                  <U+270D><U+2702><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
               <U+261E><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                               <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+261E>                   <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                           <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+261E>                  <U+270C><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                   <U+270E><U+261E>                  <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261E>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>     <U+2718><U+272E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                              <U+270F><U+261E><U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+2706><U+261E>                    <U+270F><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>   <U+2718><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                          <U+270F><U+270D><U+261E>                 <U+270F><U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270F> <U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                      <U+270F> <U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+270F><U+261E>                 <U+270F><U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
                                                   <U+2713><U+2720><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270F>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                 <U+270F><U+2701><U+261E>                    <U+270F><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+270F><U+270E><U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                              <U+270F><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+270F><U+2702><U+261E>                 <U+270F><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
                          <U+2701><U+261E><U+261E>                 <U+2701><U+261E><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>     <U+2718><U+272E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270D><U+261E>                    <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                  <U+2701> <U+261E>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
              <U+2701><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+261E>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
                              <U+2701><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+2701><U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+261E>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+270C><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+261E><U+2712>     <U+270D>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>    <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+270D><U+2712>     <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706> <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2721><U+2718><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+270D><U+261E><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2712>    <U+271B><U+2725><U+2724><U+271E><U+2726><U+271C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2724><U+2723><U+2721><U+271A><U+271C><U+2605><U+271E><U+2718><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720>     <U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721>    <U+2706><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721>    <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>    <U+270D><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B>     <U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B>     <U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721>    <U+270F><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>    <U+270F><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720>    <U+2701><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B>    <U+270C><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E>    <U+270C><U+270C><U+261E>
                                                   <U+2713><U+2720><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>    <U+270E><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721>    <U+270E><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>    <U+2704><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721>    <U+2702><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721>    <U+2702><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+270D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706> <U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706> <U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270F><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270C><U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720>                                                           <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+261E><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>   <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706><U+270D><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2706> <U+2712>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2721><U+2718><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+270D><U+261E><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2712>   <U+271B><U+2725><U+2724><U+271E><U+2726><U+271C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2727><U+271C><U+2727><U+271E><U+2718><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2712>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C>
                          <U+270D><U+261E>                  <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
                  <U+2701><U+261E>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724>
                                                   <U+2713><U+2720><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+270E><U+2701>                     <U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+261E>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                          <U+2706><U+261E><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+261E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+261E>
              <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270D><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+270D><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E>
                  <U+2706> <U+261E>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>
                              <U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+270D><U+261E><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
                  <U+270D><U+2706><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2718><U+272E>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+270D> <U+261E>                 <U+270D> <U+2701>                <U+270D><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272E> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
                              <U+270D><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+270D><U+2701><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>   <U+2718><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E>   <U+2718><U+272E> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                          <U+270D><U+270C><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2718><U+272E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2701>                <U+270D><U+2704><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2725><U+272E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                  <U+270D><U+2702><U+261E>                 <U+270D><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2720><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720>
               <U+261E><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                               <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+261E>                   <U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2717><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                           <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+261E>
                                                   <U+2713><U+2720><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2719><U+271A>                  <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B>
                   <U+2723><U+271A>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                              <U+2724><U+271A><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2706><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                          <U+2724><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2724> <U+271A>
              <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C>
                      <U+2724> <U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2724><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2724><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B>
                  <U+2724><U+2701><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2723><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C>
                              <U+2724><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2702><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                          <U+2701><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+271A><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+271A>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711>
                  <U+2701> <U+271A>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711>
              <U+2701><U+2724><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711>
                              <U+2701><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2719><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+271A><U+272A>    <U+2724>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+2727><U+272A>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+261E>
                                                  <U+270E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2701><U+2726><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+2702><U+261B><U+2711><U+2714><U+2701><U+2711>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727><U+271A><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727> <U+272A>   <U+271C><U+2715><U+2714><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2726><U+2701> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+261B><U+2701><U+2721><U+2711><U+271B><U+271E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2711>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+272A>   <U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713>     <U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D>   <U+2727><U+2724><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713>     <U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701>     <U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E>    <U+2724><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D>    <U+2724><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D>    <U+2701><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701>    <U+2719><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E>    <U+2719><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701>    <U+2723><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D>    <U+2723><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D>    <U+2704><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701>    <U+2702><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701>    <U+2702><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+271A><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+271A><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2727><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+2727><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D>   <U+2706> <U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E>   <U+2706> <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2724><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2719><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2719><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+271A><U+272A>    <U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                   <U+270E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+2727><U+272A>   <U+270E> <U+2716>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2701><U+2726><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+2702><U+261B><U+2711><U+2714><U+2701><U+2711>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727><U+271A><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727> <U+272A>   <U+271C><U+2715><U+2714><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2726><U+2701> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2721><U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718><U+271E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2711>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+272A>    <U+2701>
              <U+2701><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+271A>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2727><U+271A>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                   <U+271A>
              <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C>
                  <U+2701><U+271A>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+2719><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+271A>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2701><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B>
                          <U+2706><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+2706><U+271A><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+2706><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714>
                  <U+2706> <U+271A>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+2724><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+271A>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714>
                              <U+2706><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2723><U+271A>                 <U+2706><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+2727><U+271A><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C>
                  <U+2727><U+2706><U+271A>                 <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715>
              <U+2727><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2727> <U+271A>                 <U+2727> <U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715>
                                                   <U+270E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+271A>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2727><U+2724><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+2701><U+271A>                  <U+2727><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                          <U+2727><U+2719><U+271A>                 <U+2727><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+2723><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714>
                      <U+2727><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+2727><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2702><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                  <U+2727><U+2702><U+271A>                 <U+2727><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+271A><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C>
               <U+271A><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+271A>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                               <U+2727><U+2701>                   <U+271A>                   <U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                           <U+2724><U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2719><U+271A>                  <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                   <U+2723><U+271A>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+2724><U+271A><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2706><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                          <U+2724><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2724> <U+271A>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B>
                      <U+2724> <U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2724><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2724><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                  <U+2724><U+2701><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2724><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2723><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715>
                              <U+2724><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2724><U+2702><U+271A>                 <U+2724><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                          <U+2701><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+271A><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2727><U+2701>
                                                   <U+270E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2706>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718>
                  <U+2701> <U+271A>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2724><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
                              <U+2701><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2715><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+271A><U+272A>    <U+2719>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+2706><U+272A>   <U+2706><U+2723><U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706><U+2727><U+272A>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+261E>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2706> <U+272A>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2701><U+2726><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2711><U+2702><U+261B><U+2711><U+2714><U+2701><U+2711>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727><U+271A><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727> <U+272A>   <U+271C><U+2715><U+2714><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+2726><U+2701> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+261B><U+2701><U+2721><U+2711><U+271B><U+271E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2711>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+271A><U+271A><U+272A>   <U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713>     <U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D>   <U+2727><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D>     <U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713>     <U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701>    <U+2724><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701>    <U+2724><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D>    <U+2701><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E>    <U+2719><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E>    <U+2719><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+271E><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2713><U+271E> <U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701>    <U+2723><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D>    <U+2723><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D>    <U+2704><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D>    <U+2702><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701>    <U+2702><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701> <U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+271A><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+271A><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2713><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2724><U+271A>
                                                   <U+270E><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711>   <U+2727>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>   <U+2706> <U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720>   <U+2706> <U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+270D><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270D><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270D><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+270F><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261B>            <U+2706><U+270F><U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2712>    <U+270F>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+270D>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706> <U+2712>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2721><U+2718><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+261E> <U+2712>   <U+271B><U+2725><U+2724><U+271E><U+2726><U+271C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2727><U+271C><U+2727><U+271E><U+2718><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2712>    <U+270F>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+270C>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>
                          <U+261E><U+270C>                  <U+261E><U+2701>                   <U+270C>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+270C>                  <U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                  <U+2701><U+270C>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270F><U+270C>                  <U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+270C>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
                          <U+2706><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                  <U+2706> <U+270C>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+270C>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261B><U+2720><U+271C>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2706><U+270E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                              <U+2706><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270F><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                  <U+261E><U+2706><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
              <U+261E><U+261E><U+2701>                 <U+261E> <U+270C>                 <U+261E> <U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
                              <U+261E><U+270E><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+2701><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2718><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F>    <U+2718><U+272F> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                          <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C>                    <U+261E><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>   <U+2718><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>
                       <U+261E><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+2704><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727>
                  <U+261E><U+2702><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
               <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+270C>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>
                               <U+261E><U+2701>                   <U+270C>                   <U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                           <U+270E><U+270C>                  <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+270C>                  <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                   <U+270F><U+270C>                  <U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+270C>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>     <U+2718><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                              <U+270E><U+270C><U+2701>                    <U+270E><U+2706><U+270C>                 <U+270E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>   <U+2718><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                                                    <U+2713><U+261B><U+2720><U+271C> <U+270E>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                            <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C>                  <U+270E><U+261E><U+2701>                <U+270E> <U+270C>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C>
                      <U+270E> <U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+270E><U+270C>                 <U+270E><U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>
                  <U+270E><U+2701><U+270C>                 <U+270E><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+270F><U+270C>                 <U+270E><U+270F><U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+2704><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>
                              <U+270E><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+2702><U+270C>                 <U+270E><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>
                          <U+2701><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+2701><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+270C>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>    <U+2718><U+272F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+261E><U+270C>                 <U+2701><U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
                  <U+2701> <U+270C>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724>
              <U+2701><U+270E><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+270C>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
                              <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+270F><U+270C>                 <U+2701><U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+270C>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2712>    <U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+261E><U+2712>    <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706> <U+2712>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2721><U+2718><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+261E> <U+2712>   <U+271B><U+2725><U+2724><U+271E><U+2726><U+271C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2724><U+2723><U+2721><U+271A><U+271C><U+2605><U+271E><U+2718><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2712>   <U+2704>
              <U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B>    <U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B>    <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721>    <U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261B><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721>    <U+270E><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720>    <U+2701><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721>    <U+270F><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>    <U+270F><U+2704><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720>    <U+2704><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721>    <U+2702><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>    <U+2702><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+270C><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270C><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2706><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706> <U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706> <U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+270D><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+2720><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+2706><U+270D><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+270F><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721> <U+271E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+2704><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+261B><U+261B>                                                                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2712>    <U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2706> <U+2712>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2721><U+2718><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+261E> <U+2712>   <U+271B><U+2725><U+2724><U+271E><U+2726><U+271C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2727><U+271C><U+2727><U+271E><U+2718><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2712>    <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
              <U+2706>               <U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+270C>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717>
                          <U+261E><U+270C>                  <U+261E><U+2701>                   <U+270C>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261B><U+2720><U+271C> <U+270D>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                       <U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+270C>                    <U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
                  <U+2701><U+270C>                  <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
              <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270F><U+270C>                  <U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717>
                              <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+270C>                  <U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724>
                          <U+2706><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+270C>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272A><U+271C><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                  <U+2706> <U+270C>                 <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C>
              <U+2706><U+270E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724>
                              <U+2706><U+270D><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+270F><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724>
                          <U+2706><U+2704><U+270C>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717>
                  <U+261E><U+2706><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C>
              <U+261E><U+261E><U+2701>                 <U+261E> <U+270C>                 <U+261E> <U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2725><U+272F> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725>
                              <U+261E><U+270E><U+2701>                 <U+261E><U+2701><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2718><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F>     <U+2718><U+272F> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723>
                          <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+261E><U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2726><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720>   <U+2718><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2723>
                      <U+261E><U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+261E><U+2704><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272E><U+2725><U+272F> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+2605> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2725><U+2717> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
                  <U+261E><U+2702><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+272D><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2730><U+271A><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2720> <U+2716><U+272F><U+2724> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271A><U+261B>
               <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+270C>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+261E><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261B><U+2720><U+271C> <U+270F>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C>
                               <U+271A><U+2701>                   <U+271B>                   <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718>
                           <U+2723><U+271B>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                       <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2725><U+271B>                  <U+2725><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2719> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                   <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
               <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2719> <U+271C><U+261B><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715>
                              <U+2723><U+271B><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2706><U+271B>                 <U+2723><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715>
                          <U+2723><U+271A><U+271B>                 <U+2723><U+271A><U+2701>                 <U+2723> <U+271B>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
                      <U+2723> <U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2723><U+271B>                 <U+2723><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271C><U+261B><U+2713> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715>
                  <U+2723><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+2723><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2725><U+271B>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721>
              <U+2723><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2726><U+271B>                 <U+2723><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C>
                              <U+2723><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2702><U+271B>                 <U+2723><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2721> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                          <U+2701><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2712> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716>
                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+271A><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+271A><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                  <U+2701> <U+271B>                 <U+2701> <U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+271B>
              <U+271C><U+261B><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2722><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+271B>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
                              <U+2701><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2726><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271C><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+271B>
                                                  <U+261E><U+2716><U+2718><U+2721>   <U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+2712> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2712>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2725><U+271B><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
                                                  <U+261E><U+2716><U+2718><U+2721>   <U+2702>

