ABSTRACT
Composition characterised in that it comprises:
          (a) clay; and
          (b) ashes originated from the cremation of a deceased subject.

                    COMPOSITION COMPRISING CREMATION ASHES
   [0001] The present invention relates to a composition that comprises clay and ashes
          originating from the cremation of dead persons, animals or vegetables and the
 5        purpose whereof is to create an emotional bond between the piece created with
          said composition and the user who acquires it.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10 [0002] Currently, there are different products designed for paying tribute and
          remembering      deceased persons, as well as pets. These products are
          traditionally created using hair, teeth and other parts or tissues belonging to the
          deceased loved one.
15 [0003] Currently, cremation or incineration is one of the most habitual final destinations
          for corpses, which consists of burning the deceased, frequently at a place
          called crematorium or cremation furnace. A cremation furnace is an industrial
          furnace capable of reaching high temperatures (of approximately 8700C to
          9800C), with special modifications to ensure efficient disintegration of the body;
20        the ashes are the result of the process. Cremation is slowly gaining ground over
          the practice of inhumation and, moreover, the final destination of the ashes is
          usually scattering, which makes it impossible to subsequently build a direct
          contact emotional bond between the memory of the deceased and their
          bereaved.
25
   DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0004] The present invention provides a composition characterised in that it comprises
          a mixture of at least one clay and ashes originating from the cremation of a
30        deceased subject (person, animal or plant). The purpose of said composition is
          to manufacture an emotional object or permanent memorial.
   [0005] Therefore, a first aspect of the present invention relates to an emotional
          composition characterised in that it comprises:
35        clay; and
          ashes originating from the cremation of a deceased subject.
                                                 1

   [0006] The gained advantage of using the composition of the present invention as
          compared to the rest of the compositions described in the prior art are its
          customisability and the homogeneous appearance of both the composition and
          the object formed with the composition, including by means of compression, as
 5        well as generating an emotional bond with the person who wears or owns said
          object.
   [0007] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the clay is selected from the list that comprises: white clay, calcareous
10        earthenware paste, dolomite, feldspar, kaolinite, halloysite, illite, chlorite,
          vermiculite, montmorillonite, sepiolite-palygorskite and any combination thereof.
   [0008] In a more preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the clay is white clay.
15
   [0009] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the weight percentage of the clay ranges between 90% and 95% by weight
          with respect to the final composition.
20 [0010] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the weight percentage of the ashes ranges between 5% and 10% by weight
          with respect to the final composition.
   [0011] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
25        that this composition is baked, is in solid form and further comprises an outer
          layer (c) of glaze, wherein said outer layer of glaze is suitable for using the
          composition as a ceramic element or figure, or a three-dimensional figure or
          element obtained by means of 3D printing. This glaze is added in order for the
          pores generated during said baking process to be occluded with said glaze,
30        which provides uniformity and rigidity to the final ceramic element or figure, or
          the three-dimensional figure or element obtained by means of 3D printing. This
          glaze is added following baking of the emotional composition in a conventional
          oven at a temperature ranging between 8000C and 9000C, and prior to a
          second baking in a conventional oven at a temperature ranging between
35        10000C and 10600C.
                                                2

   [0012] In a more preferred embodiment of the composition, wherein the layer of glaze
          is a resin selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or
          any combination thereof.
 5 [0013] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the particle size of the clay with respect to the size of the ashes is such that
          it prevents large pores from being generated in the structure, which minimises
          the fragility of the ceramic object and achieves suitable compaction of the
          ceramic object containing the ashes, thereby preventing the lamination or
10        breakage thereof.
   [0014] Another aspect of the present invention relates to an element or figure that
          comprises a composition according to the description of the present invention.
15 [0015] Another aspect of the present invention relates to an element or figure that
          comprises a composition comprising an outer layer of glaze, preferably a resin
          selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or any
          combination thereof, and which is mounted on a support.
20 [0016] A preferred embodiment of the present invention is the element or figure,
          wherein said element or figure is three-dimensional.
   [0017] Another aspect of the present invention relates to the use of the composition
          described as ink for a 3D printer, in order to obtain a three-dimensional element
25        or figure to produce an object the purpose whereof is to serve as a memorial of
          a deceased person, pet or living being. Preferably, the three-dimensional
          element or figure is a reliquary.
   [0018] Another aspect of the present invention relates to the use of the composition
30        described as a ceramic element or figure. Preferably, this element or figure is a
          reliquary.
   [0019] A more preferred embodiment is the use of the already-glazed three
          dimensional element or figure, or ceramic figure, mounted on the corresponding
35        supports.
                                                 3

   [0020] In the present invention, "emotional composition" is understood to mean any
          composition that comprises at least a certain percentage of ashes originating
          from the cremation of a corpse.
 5 [0021] In the present invention, "subject" is understood to mean a human being, an
          animal or a vegetable.
   [0022] In the present invention, "ashes" are understood to mean those ashes
          originating from the process of cremating a deceased person or a deceased
10        animal, such as an animal companion or a pet, or even a vegetable.
   [0023] In a preferred embodiment, the ashes are recovered at the end of the cremation
          process and are subsequently filtered and sieved to obtain sizes of less than
          0.25 millimetres in diameter, in order to ensure homogeneity in the subsequent
15        mixing of the final composition. This embodiment is suitable for obtaining the
          composition of the invention with the optimal particle sizes to be used as a 3D
          printer ink, since, with these particle sizes, the composition is optimised for
          extrusion at pressures of 4 bars from the pressurised chamber of a 3D printer.
20 [0024] In the present invention, "clay" is understood to mean any particle or fragment
          of a phyllosilicate or any other agglomerating mineral with a particle size of less
          than 0.002 millimetres.
   [0025] In the present invention, "phyllosilicate" is understood to mean a sub-class of
25        silicates, which     includes     minerals that are  common      in  very diverse
          environments and have as a common feature a leafy (phyllon = leaf) or flaky
          habit arising from the existence of a perfect basal exfoliation. This is caused by
          the presence in its structure of infinite-dimensional tetrahedral layers in two
          directions of space. The chemical formula for these compounds always
30        contains the (Si 2 O5 2-), anion.
   [0026] Throughout the description and the claims, the word "comprises" and variants
          thereof are not intended to exclude other technical characteristics, additives,
          components or steps. For persons skilled in the art, other objects, advantages
35        and characteristics of the invention will arise, partly from the description and
          partly from the implementation of the invention. The following examples and
                                                  4

          figures are provided for illustrative purposes, and are not intended to limit the
          scope of the present invention.
   PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
 5
   [0027] Below we provide a detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the object
          of the present invention.
   [0028] Preparation of a figure made of clay and ashes obtained by means of 3D
10        printing and subsequent glazing.
   [0029] For the preparation, the ashes originating from the cremation of the remains of
          a deceased living being are recovered, and subsequently filtered and sieved in
          order to discard those particles with a diameter greater than 0.25 millimetres.
15
   [0030] The selected particles are mixed with clays that have a particle size of less than
          0.002 millimetres, until a homogeneous          mixture   is obtained, which     is
          subsequently introduced inside a container equipped with a pressure system
          that exerts an overpressure of 4 bars on the materials contained inside.
20
   [0031] The container comprises an outlet through which the mixture of materials is
          removed from the interior by means of the overpressure introduced, in order to
          feed said mixture of materials into a 3D printer equipped with at least one
          extruder nozzle.
25
   [0032] The printer nozzle deposits a plurality of layers composed of the mixture of
          materials on an external substrate until the desired object, the design whereof
          has been previously introduced by means of a computer file, is shaped. In the
          preferred embodiment described herein, each of the successive layers has an
30        approximate thickness of 1 millimetre and, finally, a rigid object with the
          selected design is obtained.
   [0033] Once the printing is completed, the piece is allowed to dry for approximately 8
          12 h.
35
   [0034] When the piece is completely dry, the first baking is performed, which takes
          about 15 h; the maximum temperature reached in this first baking is 850'C.
                                                5

  [0035] Subsequently, the piece is glazed, with the aid of a paint brush, by coating the
         entire surface thereof, and a second baking is performed, wherein the glaze
         melts onto the surface of the object. This process takes 12 h and reaches a
5        maximum temperature of 1030'C.
  [0036] Finally, the already-glazed piece is mounted on the corresponding supports.
                                              6

                                              CLAIMS
   1. Composition characterised in that it comprises:
                (a) clay; and
 5              (b) ashes originated from the cremation of a deceased subject.
   2. Composition according to claim 1, wherein the clay is selected from the list that
   comprises: white clay, calcareous earthenware paste, dolomite, feldspar, kaolinite,
   halloysite, illite, chlorite, vermiculite, montmorillonite, sepiolite-palygorskite and any
10 combination thereof.
   3. Composition according to any of claims 1 or 2, wherein the clay is white clay.
   4. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the ashes have a size of less
15 than 0.25 mm in diameter.
   5. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the weight percentage of the
   clay ranges between 90% and 95% with respect to the final composition.
20 6. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the weight percentage of the
   ashes ranges between 5% and 10% with respect to the final composition.
   7. Composition according to any of compositions 1 to 6, wherein the ashes originated
   from a person or an animal.
25
   8. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said composition is baked, is
   in solid form and further comprises an outer layer of glaze.
   9. Composition according to claim 8, wherein the layer of glaze is a resin selected from
30 the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or any combination thereof.
   10. Element or figure that comprises a composition according to any of claims 1 to 9.
   11. Element or figure that comprises a composition according to any of claims 8 or 9,
35 and which is crimped on a support.
                                                 7

   12. Element or figure according to any of claims 10 or 11, wherein the element or figure
   is three-dimensional.
   13. Use of the composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, as ink for a 3D printer, in
 5 order to obtain a three-dimensional element or figure.
   14. Use of the composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, as a ceramic element or
   figure.
10 15. Use according to any of claims 13 or 14, wherein the already-glazed three
   dimensional element or figure, or ceramic figure, is crimped on the corresponding
   supports.
                                               8

