ABSTRACT
This invention is in the field of vaccines for protecting against influenza virus infection, and in particular
vaccines that include reduced amounts of squalene relative to marketed vaccines.

                               AUSTRALIA
                            Patents Act 1990
                                     Novartis AG
                        COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                               STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:
             Influenza vaccines with reduced amounts ofsqualene
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method
of performing it known to us:
                                            - 1-

                 INFLUENZA VACCINES WITH REDUCED AMOUNTS OF SQUALENE
   This application is a divisional application pursuant to Section 79B of the PatentsAct 1990 of Australian
   Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent No.
   2010212550, which corresponds to International Application No. PCT/1B2010/000312 filed 10 February
 5 2010 in the Australian national phase, which claims priority to US Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/207,3 85, filed 10 February 2009, the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   This invention is in the field of vaccines for protecting against influenza virus infection, and in particular
   vaccines that include reduced amounts of squalene relative to marketed vaccines.
10 BACKGROUND ART
   Influenza vaccines generally do not include an adjuvant, except for the PREPANDRIXTM product
   (GlaxoSmithKline) and the FLUADTM product (Novartis Vaccines). The adjuvant in the monovalent pre
   pandemic seasonal PREPANDRIXTM vaccine is an oil-in- water emulsion. The antigen and the emulsion
   adjuvant are supplied in separate 10-dose vials for mixing at the point of use at a 1 :1 volume ratio. The
15 product datasheet shows that each dose has a volume of 0.5mL and contains 3.75pjg HA with 10.68mg
   squalene and 4.85 mg polysorbate 80.
   The adjuvant in the trivalent seasonal FLUADTM vaccine is an oil-in-water emulsion. The antigen and the
   emulsion adjuvant are supplied in pre-mixed format in a pre-filled syringe. The product datasheet shows
   that each dose has a volume of 0.5mL and contains 15pg hemagglutinin (HA) per strain with 9.75mg
20 squalene and 1.175 mg polysorbate 80. As disclosed in reference 1, the vaccine is made by mixing at a
   2X emulsion with a 2X antigen solution at a 1 :1 volumetric ratio, to give a final solution with both
   emulsion and antigen at the IX concentration. This 1 :1 mixing ratio is further explained in chapter 10 of
   reference 75. Modifications of this mixing are disclosed in reference 2.
   Compared to the FLUADTM product, reference 3 discloses trivalent influenza vaccines with lower
25 amounts of HA (3x5ptg HA/dose) and lower amounts of squalene (5.35mg/dose). The vaccine includes
   thiomersal preservative and was administered to humans as a 0.5mL dose.
   It is an object of the invention to provide further and improved formulations of adjuvanted influenza
   vaccines, and in particular of seasonal influenza vaccines.
   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising",
30 will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements,
   integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements,
   integers or steps.
   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been included in the
   present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the
35 prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it
   existed before the priority date of each of the appended claims.
                                                        -lA-

   DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
   In one embodiment, the invention provides an influenza virus vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin from
   at least one influenza A virus strain and at least one influenza B virus strain, wherein the hemagglutinin
   concentration is >12pig/ml per strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil
 5 droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is <19mg/ml.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides a mercury-free influenza virus vaccine comprising: (i)
   hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus strain and at least one influenza B virus strain; and (ii)
   an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene
   concentration is <1 9mg/ml.
10 In another embodiment, the invention provides an influenza virus vaccine having a unit dose volume
   between 0.2-0.3mL, wherein the vaccine comprises: (i) hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus
   strain and at least one influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron
   oil droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is <19mg/ml.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides an influenza virus vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin
15 from at least one influenza A virus strain and at least one influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water
   emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is
   9.75mg/mL or 4.88mg/mL.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides an influenza virus vaccine having a unit dose volume
   between 0.2-0.3mL, comprising: (i) hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus strain and at least
20 one influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets,
   comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is 19.5mg/mL, 9.75mg/mL or 4.88mg/mL.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides an influenza virus vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin
   from at least two influenza A virus strains and at least two influenza B virus strains; and (ii) an oil-in
   water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene
25 concentration is <1 9mg/mL.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides an influenza virus vaccine when used to raise an
   immune response in an elderly patient, said vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin from at least two
   influenza A virus strains and at least two influenza B virus strains, wherein the vaccine comprises at
   least 25ptg/mL of hemagglutinin per strain of influenza virus and wherein the at least two influenza B
30 virus strains include a B/Victoria/2/87-like influenza B virus strain and a B/Yamagata/16/8 8-like
   influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, the
   adjuvant comprising squalene at a concentration in the vaccine of less than 19mg/mL.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of raising an immune response in an elderly
   patient, said method comprising administering to the patient an influenza virus vaccine comprising:
35 (i) hemagglutinin from at least two influenza A virus strains and at least two influenza B virus
   strains, wherein the vaccine comprises at least 25[tg/mL of hemagglutinin per strain of influenza
   virus and wherein the at least two influenza B virus strains include a B/Victoria/2/87-like influenza B
                                                        -2-

   virus strain and a B/Yamagata/16/8 8-like influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion
   adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, the adjuvant comprising squalene at a concentration in the
   vaccine of less than 19mg/mL.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides a Use of hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A
 5 virus strain and at least one influenza B virus strain and an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with
   submicron oil droplets in the preparation of an influenza virus vaccine for raising an immune
   response in an elderly patient, wherein said vaccine comprises: (i) hemagglutinin from at least two
   influenza A virus strains and at least two influenza B virus strains, wherein the vaccine comprises at
   least 25ptg/mL of hemagglutinin per strain of influenza virus and wherein the at least two influenza B
10 virus strains include a B/Victoria/2/87-like influenza B virus strain and a B/Yamagata/16/88-like
   influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, the
   adjuvant comprising squalene at a concentration in the vaccine of less than 19mg/mL.
   Vaccine preparation
   Various forms of influenza virus vaccine are currently available, and vaccines are generally based either
15 on live virus or on inactivated virus. Inactivated vaccines may be based on whole virions, split virions, or
   on purified surface antigens. Influenza antigens can also be presented in the form of virosomes. The
   invention can be used with any of these types of vaccine, but will typically be used with inactivated
   vaccines.
   Where an inactivated virus is used, the vaccine may comprise whole virion, split virion, or purified
20 surface antigens (including hemagglutinin and, usually, also including neuraminidase). Chemical means
   for inactivating a virus include treatment with an effective amount of one or more of the following agents:
   detergents, formaldehyde, p-propiolactone, methylene blue, psoralen, carboxyfullerene (C60), binary
   ethylamine, acetyl ethyleneimine, or combinations thereof. Non-chemical methods of viral inactivation
   are known in the art, such as for example UV light or gamma irradiation.
25 Virions can be harvested from virus-containing fluids by various methods. For example, a purification
   process may involve zonal centrifugation using a linear sucrose gradient solution that includes detergent
   to disrupt the virions. Antigens may then be purified, after optional dilution, by diafiltration.
   Split virions are obtained by treating purified virions with detergents (e.g. ethyl ether, polysorbate 80,
   deoxycholate, tri-N- butyl phosphate, Triton X-100, Triton N101, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide
                                                        -2A-

  Tergitol NP9, etc.) to produce subvirion preparations, including the 'Tween-ether' splitting process.
  Methods of splitting influenza viruses are well known in the art e.g. see refs. 4-9, etc. Splitting of the
  virus is typically carried out by disrupting or fragmenting whole virus, whether infectious or
  non-infectious with a disrupting concentration of a splitting agent. The disruption results in a full or
5 partial solubilisation of the virus proteins, altering the integrity of the virus. Preferred splitting agents
  are non-ionic and ionic (e.g. cationic) surfactants e.g. alkylglycosides, alkylthioglycosides, acyl
  sugars, sulphobetaines, betains, polyoxyethylenealkylethers, N,N-dialkyl-Glucamides, Hecameg,
  alkylphenoxy-polyethoxyethanols, quaternary ammonium compounds, sarcosyl, CTABs (cetyl
  trimethyl ammonium bromides), tri-N-butyl phosphate, Cetavlon, myristyltrimethylammonium salts,
D lipofectin, lipofectamine, and DOT-MA, the octyl- or nonylphenoxy polyoxyethanols (e.g. the Triton
  surfactants, such as Triton X-100 or Triton N101), polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters (the Tween
  surfactants), polyoxyethylene ethers, polyoxyethlene esters, etc. One useful splitting procedure uses
  the consecutive effects of sodium deoxycholate and formaldehyde, and splitting can take place
  during initial virion purification (e.g. in a sucrose density gradient solution). Thus a splitting process
5 can involve clarification of the virion-containing material (to remove non-virion material),
  concentration of the harvested virions (e.g. using an adsorption method, such as CaHPO 4 adsorption),
  separation of whole virions from non-virion material, splitting of virions using a splitting agent in a
  density gradient centrifugation step (e.g. using a sucrose gradient that contains a splitting agent such
  as sodium deoxycholate), and then filtration (e.g. ultrafiltration) to remove undesired materials. Split
3 virions can usefully be resuspended in sodium phosphate-buffered isotonic sodium chloride solution.
  The PREPANDRIXTM, BEGRIVAC TM, FLUARIX TM, FLUZONETM and FLUSHIELD TM products
  are split vaccines.
  Purified surface antigen vaccines comprise the influenza surface antigens haemagglutinin and,
  typically, also neuraminidase. Processes for preparing these proteins in purified form are well known
5 in the art. The FLUVIRINTM, FLUADTM, AGRIPPAL TM and INFLUVAC TM products are examples.
  Another form of inactivated influenza antigen is the virosome [10] (nucleic acid free viral-like
  liposomal particles), as in the INFLEXAL          VTM    and INVAVACTM products. Virosomes can be
  prepared by solubilization of influenza virus with a detergent followed by removal of the
  nucleocapsid and reconstitution of the membrane containing the viral glycoproteins. An alternative
0 method for preparing virosomes involves adding viral membrane glycoproteins to excess amounts of
  phospholipids, to give liposomes with viral proteins in their membrane.
  Strain selection
  Vaccines of the invention include hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus strain and at
  least one influenza B virus strain. The different strains will typically be grown separately and then
5 mixed after the viruses have been harvested and antigens have been prepared. Thus a process of the
  invention may include the step of mixing antigens from more than one influenza strain.
  Strains used with the invention may have a natural HA as found in a wild-type virus, or a modified
  HA. For instance, it is known to modify HA to remove determinants (e.g. hyper-basic regions around
                                                       -3-

   the HA1/HA2 cleavage site) that cause a virus to be highly pathogenic in avian species.
   Hemagglutinins of influenza B viruses used with the invention preferably have Asn at amino acid
    197, providing a glycosylation site [11].
   An influenza virus used with the invention may be a reassortant strain, and may have been obtained
 5  by reverse genetics techniques. Reverse genetics techniques [e.g. 12-16] allow influenza viruses with
    desired genome segments to be prepared in vitro using plasmids or other artificial vectors. Typically,
   it involves expressing (a) DNA molecules that encode desired viral RNA molecules e.g. from poll
   promoters or bacteriophage RNA polymerase promoters, and (b) DNA molecules that encode viral
   proteins e.g. from poII promoters, such that expression of both types of DNA in a cell leads to
 3  assembly of a complete intact infectious virion. The DNA preferably provides all of the viral RNA
   and proteins, but it is also possible to use a helper virus to provide some of the RNA and proteins.
   Plasmid-based methods using separate plasmids for producing each viral RNA can be used [17-19],
   and these methods will also involve the use of plasmids to express all or some (e.g. just the PB1,
   PB2, PA and NP proteins) of the viral proteins, with up to 12 plasmids being used in some methods.
 5 To reduce the number of plasmids needed, one approach [20] combines a plurality of RNA
   polymerase I transcription cassettes (for viral RNA synthesis) on the same plasmid (e.g. sequences
   encoding 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or all 8 influenza A vRNA segments), and a plurality of protein-coding
   regions with RNA polymerase II promoters on another plasmid (e.g. sequences encoding 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
   6, 7 or all 8 influenza A mRNA transcripts). Preferred aspects of the reference 20 method involve:
 3 (a) PB1, PB2 and PA mRNA-encoding regions on a single plasmid; and (b) all 8 vRNA-encoding
   segments on a single plasmid. Including the NA and HA segments on one plasmid and the six other
   segments on another plasmid can also facilitate matters.
   As an alternative to using poll promoters to encode the viral RNA segments, it is possible to use
   bacteriophage polymerase promoters [21]. For instance, promoters for the SP6, T3 or T7
5  polymerases can conveniently be used. Because of the species-specificity of poll promoters,
   bacteriophage polymerase promoters can be more convenient for many cell types (e.g. MDCK),
   although a cell must also be transfected with a plasmid encoding the exogenous polymerase enzyme.
   In other techniques it is possible to use dual poll and poilI promoters to simultaneously code for the
   viral RNAs and for expressible mRNAs from a single template [22,23].
0  Thus an influenza A virus may include one or more RNA segments from a A/PR/8/34 virus
   (typically 6 segments from A/PR/8/34, with the HA and N segments being from a vaccine strain, i.e.
   a 6:2 reassortant). It may also include one or more RNA segments from a A/WSN/33 virus, or from
   any other virus strain useful for generating reassortant viruses for vaccine preparation. An influenza
   A virus may include fewer than 6 (i.e. 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5) viral segments from an AA/6/60 influenza
5  virus (A/Ann Arbor/6/60). An influenza B virus may include fewer than 6 (i.e. 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5) viral
   segments from an AA/1/66 influenza virus (B/Ann Arbor/l/66). Typically, the invention protects
   against a strain that is capable of human-to-human transmission, and so the strain's genome will
                                                      -4-

    usually include at least one RNA segment that originated in a mammalian (e.g. in a human) influenza
   virus. It may include NS segment that originated in an avian influenza virus.
    Strains whose antigens can be included in the compositions may be resistant to antiviral therapy
    (e.g. resistant to oseltamivir [24] and/or zanamivir), including resistant pandemic strains [25].
 5 Particularly useful strains are those that have not been passaged through eggs at any stage between
    isolation from a patient and replication in a cell culture system, inclusive. MDCK cells can be used
    exclusively of for all steps from isolation to virus replication.
   In some embodiments, strains used with the invention have hemagglutinin with a binding preference
   for oligosaccharides with a Sia(a2,6)Gal terminal disaccharide compared to oligosaccharides with a
 3  Sia(ac2,3)Gal terminal disaccharide. Human influenza viruses bind to receptor oligosaccharides
   having a Sia(a2,6)Gal terminal disaccharide (sialic acid linked a-2,6 to galactose), but eggs and Vero
    cells have receptor oligosaccharides with a Sia(a2,3)Gal terminal disaccharide. Growth of human
    influenza viruses in cells such as MDCK provides selection pressure on hemagglutinin to maintain
   the native Sia(a2,6)Gal binding, unlike egg passaging.
 5 To determine if a virus has a binding preference for oligosaccharides with a Sia(a2,6)Gal terminal
   disaccharide compared to oligosaccharides with a Sia(a2,3)Gal terminal disaccharide, various assays
   can be used. For instance, reference 26 describes a solid-phase enzyme-linked assay for influenza
   virus receptor-binding activity which gives sensitive and quantitative measurements of affinity
   constants. Reference 27 used a solid-phase assay in which binding of viruses to two different
 3 sialylglycoproteins      was   assessed   (ovomucoid,     with     Sia(a2,3)Gal   determinants; and  pig
     2 -macroglobulin,    which Sia(a2,6)Gal determinants), and also describes an assay in which the
   binding of virus was assessed against two receptor analogs: free sialic acid (Neu5Ac) and 3'
   sialyllactose (Neu5Aca2-3Galpl-4Glc). Reference 28 reports an assay using a glycan array which
   was able to clearly differentiate receptor preferences for a2,3 or a2,6 linkages. Reference 29 reports
5  an assay based on agglutination of human erythrocytes enzymatically modified to contain either
   Sia(a2,6)Gal or Sia(a2,3)Gal. Depending on the type of assay, it may be performed directly with the
   virus itself, or can be performed indirectly with hemagglutinin purified from the virus.
   In some embodiments influenza strains used with the invention have glycoproteins (including
   hemagglutinin)      with a different glycosylation pattern from           egg-derived  viruses. Thus the
0  glycoproteins will include glycoforms that are not seen in chicken eggs.
   Influenza A virus currently displays sixteen HA subtypes: H,            H2, H3, H4, H5, H6, H7, H8, H9,
   H10, H 1, H12, H13, H14, H15 and H16. The invention may protect against one or more of these
   subtypes. The invention may protect against one or more of influenza A virus NA subtypes Ni, N2,
   N3, N4, N5, N6, N7, N8 or N9. Vaccines herein include antigen from at least one influenza A virus
5  strain, and will typically include antigen from at least two influenza A virus strains e.g. 2 or 3
   influenza A virus strains. Where two influenza A virus strains are included, these will usually be a
                                                        -5-

   HI strain and a H3 strain. Where three influenza A virus strains are included, these will usually be a
   Hi strain, a H3 strain and a pandemic-associated strain. In some embodiments the H3 strain
   cross-reacts with A/Moscow/10/99; in other embodiments the H3 strain cross-reacts with
   A/Fujian/411/2002. Ref. 30 discloses vaccines including A/H1N1, A/H3N2, A/H5N1 and B antigens.
 5 Characteristics of a pandemic-associated influenza strain are: (a) it contains a new hemagglutinin
   compared to the hemagglutinins in currently-circulating human strains, i.e. one that has not been
   evident in the human population for over a decade (e.g. H2), or has not previously been seen at all in
   the human population (e.g. H5, H6 or H9, that have generally been found only in bird populations),
   such that the vaccine recipient and the general human population are immunologically naive to the
 0 strain's hemagglutinin; (b) it is capable of being transmitted horizontally in the human population;
   and (c) it is pathogenic to humans. A pandemic-associated influenza virus strain for use with the
   invention will typically have a H2, H5, H7 or H9 subtype e.g. H5NI, H5N3, H9N2, H2N2, H7N1 or
   H7N7. H5N1 strains are preferred. Pandemic strains can have a HI subtype (e.g. HINI); for
   example, the HA can be immunologically cross-reactive with the A/California/04/09 strain.
 5 Influenza B virus currently does not display different HA subtypes, but influenza B virus strains do
   fall into two distinct lineages. These lineages emerged in the late 1980s and have HAs which can be
   antigenically and/or genetically distinguished from each other [31]. Current influenza B virus strains
   are either B/Victoria/2/87-like or B/Yamagata/16/88-like. These strains are usually distinguished
   antigenically, but differences in amino acid sequences have also been described for distinguishing the
 D two lineages e.g. B/Yamagata/16/88-like strains often (but not always) have HA proteins with
   deletions at amino acid residue 164, numbered relative to the 'Lee40' HA sequence [32].
   In some embodiments, compositions of the invention include antigen from a single influenza B virus
   strain, and this strain may be B/Victoria/2/87-like or B/Yamagata/16/88-like. In other embodiments,
   however, compositions of the invention include antigen from two influenza B virus strains, and these
25 will typically include a B/Victoria/2/87-like strain and a B/Yamagata/l 6/88-like strain.
   Preferred vaccines of the invention include antigen from two influenza A virus strains and two
   influenza B virus strains ("ABBA" vaccines). Thus preferred ABBA vaccines of the invention will
   include hemagglutinin from: (i) a -1IN1 strain; (ii) a H3N2 strain; (iii) a B/Victoria/2/87-like strain;
   and (iv) B/Yamagata/1 6/88-like strain.
30 In some ABBA embodiments, at least two of the influenza B virus strains may have distinct
   hemagglutinins but related neuraminidases. For instance, they may both have a B/Victoria/2/87-like
   neuraminidase [33] or may both have a B/Yamagata/16/88-like neuraminidase. For instance, two
   B/Victoria/2/87-like neuraminidases may both have one or more of the following sequence
   characteristics: (1) not a serine at residue 27, but preferably a leucine; (2) not a glutamate at residue
35 44, but preferably a lysine; (3) not a threonine at residue 46, but preferably an isoleucine; (4) not a
   proline at residue 51, but preferably a serine; (5) not an arginine at residue 65, but preferably a
   histidine; (6) not a glycine at residue 70, but preferably a glutamate; (7) not a leucine at residue 73,
                                                       -6-

   but preferably a phenylalanine; and/or (8) not a proline at residue 88, but preferably a glutamine.
    Similarly, in some embodiments the neuraminidase may have a deletion at residue 43, or it may have
   a threonine; a deletion at residue 43, arising from a trinucleotide deletion in the NA gene, has been
   reported as a characteristic of B/Victoria/2/87-like strains, although recent strains have regained Thr
 5 43 [33]. Conversely, of course, the opposite characteristics may be shared by two B/Yamagata/16/88
   like neuraminidases e.g. S27, E44, T46, P51, R65, G70, L73, and/or P88. These amino acids are
   numbered relative to the 'Lee40' neuraminidase sequence [34]. Thus an ABBA vaccine may use two
   B    strains    that    are   antigenically   distinct     for     HA    (one  B/Yamagata/16/88-like,      one
   B/Victoria/2/87-like),      but    are  related   for    NA        (both   B/Yamagata/16/88-like,     or  both
 0 B/Victoria/2/87-like).
   The invention is not restricted to 3-valent and 4-valent vaccines, but encompasses 5-valent, 6-valent,
   7-valent, etc. vaccines. An example 5-valent vaccine may include three influenza A strains (e.g. one
   HI strain and two H3 strains, as discussed above) plus two influenza B strains. For example, an A-A
   A-B-B vaccine may include hemagglutinin from: (i) a HIN1 strain; (ii) a A/Moscow/10/99-like
 5 H3N2 strain; (iii) a A/Fujian/411/2002-like H3N2 strain; (iv) a B/Victoria/2/87-like strain; and (v) a
   B/Yamagata/16/8 8-like strain. Another A-A-A-B-B vaccine may include hemagglutinin from: (i) a
   HIN1 strain; (ii) a H3N2 strain; (iii) a H5 influenza A virus strain, such as a H5N1 strain; (iv) a
   B/Victoria/2/87-like strain; and (v) a B/Yamagata/16/88-like strain. An A-A-A-A-B vaccine may
   include hemagglutinin from: (i) a HIN1 strain; (ii) a A/Moscow/10/99-like H3N2 strain; (iii) a
 0 A/Fujian/411/2002-like H3N2 strain; (iv) a H5 influenza A virus strain, such as a H5N1 strain; and
   (v) an influenza B virus strain. An A-A-A-A-B-B              vaccine may include hemagglutinin from: (i) a
   HIN1 strain; (ii) a A/Moscow/10/99-like H3N2 strain; (iii) a A/Fujian/411/2002-like H3N2 strain;
   (iv) a H5 influenza A virus strain, such as a H5NI strain; (v) a B/Victoria/2/87-like strain; and (vi) a
   B/Yamagata/16/88-like strain.
25 Heinagglutinin dosing
   Hemagglutinin (HA) is the main immunogen in current inactivated influenza vaccines, and vaccine
   doses are standardised by reference to HA levels, typically measured by SRID. Existing vaccines
   typically contain about 15ptg of HA per strain in a 0.5mL dose, although lower doses can be used e.g.
   for children (typically a 0.25rnkL dose at the same HA concentration), or in pandemic situations, or
30 when using an adjuvant. Fractional doses such as          /2  (i.e. 7.5kg HA per strain), %/ and 1/8 have been
   used, as have higher doses (e.g. 3x or 9x doses [35,36]).
   In general, the amount of HA per dose can be in the range 0.1 and I50tg per strain, preferably
   between 0.1 and 50pg e.g. 0.l-20p.g, 0.l-15[tg, 0.1-10ptg, 0.1-7.5pg, 0.5-5 tg, etc. Particular doses
   include e.g. about 45, about 30, about 15, about 10, about 7.5, about 5, about 3.8, about 1.9, about
 5 1.5, etc. pLg per strain. In some embodiments of the invention, the concentration of HA per strain in a
   composition is at least 12ptg/ml (i.e. at least 6[tg per strain in a 0.5mL volume, which is higher than
                                                          -7-

   the concentration used in reference 3). Usually the concentration will be >15ptg/ml e.g. >20 1g/ml,
    >_25pg/ml, >30pg/ml or more. A concentration of 15 pg/ml per strain or 30[tg/ml per strain is typical.
   Normally the concentration of HA will be the same for each strain in a composition. In some
   embodiments, however, the concentrations will all be integer multiples of the lowest concentration.
 5 For example, if the lowest HA concentration for a particular strain is 15pg/ml then the other HA
   concentrations in the composition will be 15pg/ml, 30pLg/ml, 45pg/ml or 60pg/ml.
   As mentioned above, the invention will usually be used with inactivated vaccines. In some
   embodiments, however, it can be used with live vaccines. Rather than being standardized around HA
   content, live vaccines dosing is measured by median tissue culture infectious dose (TCID5 o). A
 0 TCID50 of between 106 and 108 (preferably between 106.5-107-5) per strain is typical. The influenza
   virus may be attenuated. The influenza virus may be temperature-sensitive. The influenza virus may
   be cold-adapted.
   Cell lines
   Manufacture of vaccines for use with the invention can use SPF eggs as the substrate for viral
 5 growth, wherein virus is harvested from infected allantoic fluids of hens' eggs. Instead, however, cell
   lines which support influenza virus replication may be used. The cell line will typically be of
   mammalian origin. Suitable mammalian cells of origin include, but are not limited to, hamster, cattle,
   primate (including humans and monkeys) and dog cells, although the use of primate cells is not
   preferred. Various cell types may be used, such as kidney cells, fibroblasts, retinal cells, lung cells,
 0 etc. Examples of suitable hamster cells are the cell lines having the names BHK21 or HKCC.
   Suitable monkey cells are e.g. African green monkey cells, such as kidney cells as in the Vero cell
   line [37-39]. Suitable dog cells are e.g. kidney cells, as in the CLDK and MDCK cell lines.
   Thus suitable cell lines include, but are not limited to: MDCK; CHO; CLDK; HKCC; 293T; BHK;
   Vero; MRC-5; PER.C6 [40]; FRhL2; WI-38; etc. Suitable cell lines are widely available e.g. from
Z5 the American Type Cell Culture (ATCC) collection [41], from the Coriell Cell Repositories [42], or
   from the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC). For example, the ATCC supplies various
   different Vero cells under catalog numbers CCL-81, CCL-812, CRL-1586 and CRL-1587, and it
   supplies MDCK cells under catalog number CCL-34. PER.C6 is available from the ECACC under
   deposit number 96022940.
 0 The most preferred cell lines are those with mammalian-type glycosylation. As a less-preferred
   alternative to mammalian cell lines, virus can be grown on avian cell lines [e.g. refs. 43-45],
   including cell lines derived from ducks (e.g. duck retina) or hens. Examples of avian cell lines
   include avian embryonic sten cells [43,46] and duck retina cells [44]. Suitable avian embryonic stem
   cells, include the EBx cell line derived from chicken embryonic stem cells, EB45, EB14, and
 5 EBl4-074 [47]. Chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) may also be used. Rather than using avian cells,
                                                      -8-

   however, the use of mammalian cells means that vaccines can be free from avian DNA and egg
   proteins (such as ovalbumin and ovomucoid), thereby reducing allergenicity.
   The most preferred cell lines for growing influenza viruses are MDCK cell lines [48-51], derived
   from Madin Darby canine kidney. The original MDCK cell line is available from the ATCC as
 5  CCL-34, but derivatives of this cell line and other MDCK cell lines may also be used. For instance,
   reference 48 discloses a MDCK cell line that was adapted for growth in suspension culture ('MDCK
   33016', deposited as DSM ACC 2219). Similarly, reference 52 discloses a MDCK-derived cell line
   that grows in suspension in serum-free culture ('B-702', deposited as FERM BP-7449). Reference 53
   discloses non-tumorigenic MDCK cells, including 'MDCK-S' (ATCC PTA-6500), 'MDCK-SF101'
 0  (ATCC PTA-6501),        'MDCK-SF102'       (ATCC PTA-6502)         and   'MDCK-SF103'       (PTA-6503).
   Reference 54 discloses MDCK cell lines with high susceptibility to infection, including
    'MDCK.5Fl' cells (ATCC CRL-12042). Any of these MDCK cell lines can be used.
   Virus may be grown on cells in adherent culture or in suspension. Microcarrier cultures can also be
   used. In some embodiments, the cells may thus be adapted for growth in suspension.
 5 Cell lines are preferably grown in serum-free culture media and/or protein free media. A medium is
   referred to as a serum-free medium in the context of the present invention in which there are no
   additives from serum of human or animal origin. The cells growing in such cultures naturally contain
   proteins themselves, but a protein-free medium is understood to mean one in which multiplication of
   the cells (e.g. prior to infection) occurs with exclusion of proteins, growth factors, other protein
 0 additives and non-serum proteins, but can optionally include proteins such as trypsin or other
   proteases that may be necessary for viral growth.
   Cell lines supporting influenza virus replication are preferably grown below 37'C [55] (e.g. 30-36'C,
   or at about 300 C, 31 C, 32'C, 33'C, 34'C, 35'C, 36'C) during viral replication.
   Methods for propagating influenza virus in cultured cells generally includes the steps of inoculating a
25 culture of cells with an inoculum of the strain to be grown, cultivating the infected cells for a desired
   time period for virus propagation, such as for example as determined by virus titer or antigen
   expression (e.g. between 24 and 168 hours after inoculation) and collecting the propagated virus. The
   cultured cells are inoculated with a virus (measured by PFU or TCID5o) to cell ratio of 1:500 to 1:1,
   preferably 1:100 to 1:5, more preferably 1:50 to 1:10. The virus is added to a suspension of the cells
30 or is applied to a monolayer of the cells, and the virus is absorbed on the cells for at least 60 minutes
   but usually less than 300 minutes, preferably between 90 and 240 minutes at 25*C to 40'C,
   preferably 28'C to 370 C. The infected cell culture (e.g. monolayers) may be removed either by
   freeze-thawing or by enzymatic action to increase the viral content of the harvested culture
   supernatants. The harvested fluids are then either inactivated or stored frozen. Cultured cells may be
 5 infected at a multiplicity of infection ("m.o.i.") of about 0.0001 to 10, preferably 0.002 to 5, more
   preferably to 0.001 to 2. Still more preferably, the cells are infected at a m.o.i of about 0.01. Infected
   cells may be harvested 30 to 60 hours post infection. Preferably, the cells are harvested 34 to 48
                                                      -9-

   hours post infection. Still more preferably, the cells are harvested 38 to 40 hours post infection.
   Proteases (typically trypsin) are generally added during cell culture to allow viral release, and the
   proteases can be added at any suitable stage during the culture e.g. before inoculation, at the same
   time as inoculation, or after inoculation [55].
 5 In some embodiments, particularly with MDCK cells, a cell line is not passaged from the master
   working cell bank beyond 40 population-doubling levels.
   The viral inoculum and the viral culture are preferably free from (i.e. will have been tested for and
   given a negative result for contamination by) herpes simplex virus, respiratory syncytial virus,
   parainfluenza virus 3, SARS coronavirus, adenovirus, rhinovirus, reoviruses, polyomaviruses,
 0 birnaviruses, circoviruses,    and/or parvoviruses [56].     Absence of herpes simplex viruses is
   particularly preferred.
   Host cell DNA
   Where virus has been grown on a cell line then it is standard practice to minimize the amount of
   residual cell line DNA in the final vaccine, in order to minimize any oncogenic activity of the DNA.
 5 Thus a vaccine composition prepared according to the invention preferably contains less than I Ong
   (preferably less than Ing, and more preferably less than 1OOpg) of residual host cell DNA per dose,
   although trace amounts of host cell DNA may be present.
   Vaccines containing <lOng (e.g. <Ing, <100pg) host cell DNA per 15ptg of haemagglutinin are
   preferred, as are vaccines containing <lOng (e.g. <Ing, <100pg) host cell DNA per 0.25ml volume.
 0 Vaccines containing <lOng (e.g. <Ing, <100pg) host cell DNA per 50ptg of haemagglutinin are more
   preferred, as are vaccines containing <1Ong (e.g. <Ing, <100pg) host cell DNA per 0.5ml volume.
   It is preferred that the average length of any residual host cell DNA is less than 500bp e.g. less than
   400bp, less than 300bp, less than 200bp, less than 100bp, etc.
   Contaminating DNA can be removed during vaccine preparation using standard purification
25 procedures e.g. chromatography, etc. Removal of residual host cell DNA can be enhanced by
   nuclease treatment e.g. by using a DNase. A convenient method for reducing host cell DNA
   contamination is disclosed in references 57 & 58, involving a two-step treatment, first using a DNase
   (e.g. Benzonase), which may be used during viral growth, and then a cationic detergent (e.g. CTAB),
   which may be used during virion disruption. Removal by      p-propiolactone treatment  can also be used.
30 Measurement of residual host cell DNA is now a routine regulatory requirement for biologicals and
   is within the normal capabilities of the skilled person. The assay used to measure DNA will typically
   be a validated assay [59,60]. The performance characteristics of a validated assay can be described in
   mathematical and quantifiable terms, and its possible sources of error will have been identified. The
   assay will generally have been tested for characteristics such as accuracy, precision, specificity. Once
 5 an assay has been calibrated (e.g. against known standard quantities of host cell DNA) and tested
   then quantitative DNA measurements can be routinely performed. Three main techniques for DNA
                                                      -10-

    quantification can be used: hybridization methods, such as Southern blots or slot blots [61];
    immunoassay methods, such as the ThresholdTM System [62]; and quantitative PCR [63]. These
    methods are all familiar to the skilled person, although the precise characteristics of each method
    may depend on the host cell in question e.g. the choice of probes for hybridization, the choice of
 5  primers and/or probes for amplification, etc. The ThresholdTM system from Molecular Devices is a
    quantitative assay for picogram levels of total DNA, and has been used for monitoring levels of
    contaminating DNA in biopharmaceuticals [62]. A typical assay involves non-sequence-specific
    formation of a reaction complex between a biotinylated ssDNA binding protein, a urease-conjugated
    anti-ssDNA antibody, and DNA. All assay components are included in the complete Total DNA
 0  Assay Kit available from the manufacturer. Various commercial manufacturers offer quantitative
    PCR assays for detecting residual host cell DNA e.g. AppTec TM Laboratory Services, BioRelianceTM,
    Althea Technologies, etc. A comparison of a chemiluminescent hybridisation assay and the total
    DNA ThresholdTM system for measuring host cell DNA contamination of a human viral vaccine can
    be found in reference 64.
 5  Pharmaceuticalcompositions
    Vaccines for use with the invention usually include components in addition to the influenza antigens
    e.g. they typically include one or more pharmaceutical carrier(s) and/or excipient(s). A thorough
    discussion of such components is available in reference 65. In many embodiments adjuvants may
    also be included.
 .O Compositions will generally be in aqueous form at the point of administration.
    A composition may include preservatives such as thiomersal or 2-phenoxyethanol. In some
    embodiments, however, the vaccine should, unlike the PREPANDRIXTM product, be substantially
    free from mercurial material e.g. thiomersal-free [8,66]. Vaccines containing no mercury are more
    preferred, and a-tocopherol succinate can be included as an alternative to mercurial compounds [8].
25  Preservative-free vaccines are particularly preferred.
    To control tonicity, it is preferred to include a physiological salt, such as a sodium salt. Sodium
    chloride (NaCI) is preferred, which may be present at between I and 20 mg/ml. Other salts that may
    be present include potassium chloride, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, disodium phosphate, and/or
    magnesium chloride, etc. Where adjuvant is in a separate container from antigens, sodium chloride
30  may be present in both containers.
    Compositions may have an osmolality of between 200 mOsm/kg and 400 mOsm/kg, preferably
    between 240-360 mOsm/kg, maybe within the range of 290-310 mOsm/kg.
    Compositions may include one or more buffers. Typical buffers include: a phosphate buffer; a Tris
    buffer; a borate buffer; a succinate buffer; a histidine buffer (particularly with an aluminum
35  hydroxide adjuvant); or a citrate buffer. Buffers will typically be included in the 5-20mM range.
                                                      -11-

   The pH of a composition will generally be between 5.0 and 8.1, and more typically between 6.0 and
   8.0 e.g. 6.5 and 7.5, or between 7.0 and 7.8.
   The composition is preferably sterile. The composition is preferably non-pyrogenic e.g. containing
   <1 EU (endotoxin unit, a standard measure) per dose, and preferably <0.1 EU per dose. The
 5 composition is preferably gluten free.
   Compositions of the invention may include detergent e.g. a polyoxyethylene sorbitan ester surfactant
   (known      as     'Tweens'),    an    octoxynol    (such    as   octoxynol-9     (Triton      X-100)   or
   t-octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol), a cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide ('CTAB'), or sodium
   deoxycholate, particularly for a split or surface antigen vaccine. The detergent may be present only at
 0 trace amounts. Thus the vaccine may include less than 1mg/mi of each of octoxynol-10 and
   polysorbate 80. Other residual components in trace amounts could be antibiotics (e.g. neomycin,
   kanamycin, polymyxin B). Where adjuvant is in a separate container from antigens, this detergent
   will usually be present in the antigen-containing container (e.g. antigen with polysorbate 80 and
   Octoxynol 10).
 5 The composition may include material for a single immunisation, or may include material for
   multiple immunisations (i.e. a 'multidose' kit). The inclusion of a preservative is preferred in
   multidose arrangements. As an alternative (or in addition) to including a preservative in multidose
   compositions, the compositions may be contained in a container having an aseptic adaptor for
   removal of material.
 0 Human influenza vaccines are typically administered by intramuscular injection in a unit dosage
   volume of about 0.5ml. In some embodiments of the invention, however, a unit dose with half this
   volume (i.e. about 0.25ml) may be used. This reduced dosage volume is particularly useful with
   children. Even lower doses (e.g. 0.1ml or 0.2ml) may be useful e.g. for intradermal injection.
   Vaccines are preferably stored at between 2'C and 8'C. They should not be frozen. They should
25 ideally be kept out of direct light.
   Vaccines may be supplied in any suitable container, either formulated ready for administration or as
   a kit of parts for extemporaneous mixing prior to administration e.g. as separate antigen and adjuvant
   components (as in the PREPANDRIXTM product). Suitable containers include vials, syringes (e.g.
   disposable     syringes),  nasal   sprays,   etc. These    containers   should   be   sterile.   Where   a
30 composition/component is located in a vial, the vial is preferably made of a glass or plastic material.
   The vial is preferably sterilized before the composition is added to it. To avoid problems with
   latex-sensitive patients, vials are preferably sealed with a latex-free stopper, and the absence of latex
   in all packaging material is preferred. The vial may include a single dose of vaccine, or it may
   include more than one dose (a 'multidose' vial) e.g. 10 doses. Preferred vials are made of colorless
 5 glass. A vial can have a cap (e.g. a Luer lock) adapted such that a syringe can be inserted into the
   cap. A vial may have a cap that permits aseptic removal of its contents, particularly for multidose
                                                      -12-

   vials. Where a component is packaged into a syringe, the syringe may have a needle attached to it. If
   a needle is not attached, a separate needle may be supplied with the syringe for assembly and use.
   Such a needle may be sheathed. Safety needles are preferred. 1-inch 23-gauge, 1-inch 25-gauge and
   5/8-inch 25-gauge needles are typical. Syringes may be provided with peel-off labels on which the
 5 lot number, influenza season and expiration date of the contents may be printed, to facilitate record
   keeping. The plunger in the syringe preferably has a stopper to prevent the plunger from being
   accidentally removed during aspiration. The syringes may have a latex rubber cap and/or plunger.
   Disposable syringes contain a single dose of vaccine. The syringe will generally have a tip cap to seal
   the tip prior to attachment of a needle, and the tip cap is preferably made of a butyl rubber.
 0 Containers may be marked to show a half-dose volume e.g. to facilitate delivery to children. For
   instance, a syringe containing a 0.5ml dose may have a mark showing a 0.25ml volume. Thus a
   vaccine may be packaged with a unit dose volume of 0.5ml but may be administered as a unit dose
   volume of 0.25ml, with this half dosing being facilitated by the container markings.
   Where a glass container (e.g. a syringe or a vial) is used, then it is preferred to use a container made
 5 from a borosilicate glass rather than from a soda lime glass.
   A container may be packaged (e.g. in the same box) with a leaflet including details of the vaccine
   e.g. instructions for administration, details of the antigens within the vaccine, etc. The instructions
   may also contain warnings e.g. to keep a solution of adrenaline readily available in case of
   anaphylactic reaction following vaccination, etc.
 0 Adjuvants
   At the point of use, vaccines of the invention may advantageously include an adjuvant, which can
   function to enhance the immune responses (humoral and/or cellular) elicited in a patient who
   receives the composition. The presence of an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant (particularly one
   comprising squalene) has been shown to enhance the strain cross-reactivity of immune responses for
25 seasonal [67] and pandemic [68,69] influenza vaccines.
   Oil-in-water emulsions for use with the invention typically include at least one oil and at least one
   surfactant, with the oil(s) and surfactant(s) being biodegradable (metabolisable) and biocompatible.
   The oil droplets in the emulsion are generally less than 5prm in diameter, and may even have a
   sub-micron diameter, with these small sizes being achieved with a microfluidiser to provide stable
30 emulsions. Droplets with a size less than 220nm are preferred as they can be subjected to filter
   sterilization.
   The invention can be used with oils such as those from an animal (such as fish) or vegetable source.
   Sources for vegetable oils include nuts, seeds and grains. Peanut oil, soybean oil, coconut oil, and
   olive oil, the most commonly available, exemplify the nut oils. Jojoba oil can be used e.g. obtained
35 from the jojoba bean. Seed oils include safflower oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower seed oil, sesame seed
   oil, etc. In the grain group, corn oil is the most readily available, but the oil of other cereal grains
                                                      -13-

   such as wheat, oats, rye, rice, teff, triticale, etc. may also be used. 6-10 carbon fatty acid esters of
   glycerol and 1,2-propanediol, while not occurring naturally in seed oils, may be prepared by
   hydrolysis, separation and esterification of the appropriate materials starting from the nut and seed
   oils. Fats and oils from mammalian milk are metabolizable and may therefore be used in the practice
 5 of this invention. The procedures for separation, purification, saponification and other means
   necessary for obtaining pure oils from animal sources are well known in the art.
   Most fish contain metabolizable oils which may be readily recovered. For example, cod liver oil,
   shark liver oils, and whale oil such as spermaceti exemplify several of the fish oils which may be
   used herein. A number of branched chain oils are synthesized biochemically in 5-carbon isoprene
 0 units and are generally referred to as terpenoids. Shark liver oil contains a branched, unsaturated
   terpenoid    known     as   squalene,    2,6,10,15,19,23-hexamethyl-2,6,10,14,18,22-tetracosahexaene.
   Squalane, the saturated analog to squalene, can also be used. Fish oils, including squalene and
   squalane, are readily available from commercial sources or may be obtained by methods known in
   the art. Squalene is preferred.
 5 Squalene-containing emulsions are already included in the FLUADTM and PREPANDRIXTM
   products. In the FLUADTM vaccine the total amount of HA is 45 ig (3xl5l.ig) and the total amount of
   squalene is 9.75mg, in a dosage volume of 0.5ml (i.e. 19.5mg/ml squalene). In the PREPANDRIXTM
   vaccine the total amount of HA is 3.75ptg (monovalent) and the total amount of squalene is 10.68mg,
   also in a dosage volume of 0.5ml (i.e. 21.4mg/ml squalene). In many embodiments of the invention
 D the squalene concentration is less than 19mg/ml while still retaining an adjuvant effect, and the
   concentration may be <10mg/ml e.g. <5mg/ml,           2.5mg/ml. A minimum amount of 0.5mg squalene
   per dose is useful (e.g. see ref. 3). Examples of amounts per dose include 5.3mg, 4.9mg, 2.7mg,
   2.4mg, 1.2mg etc.
   Other useful oils are the tocopherols, which are advantageously included in vaccines for use in
15 elderly patients (e.g. aged 60 years or older) because vitamin E has been reported to have a positive
   effect on the immune response in this patient group [70]. They also have antioxidant properties that
   may help to stabilize the emulsions [71). Various tocopherols exist (a, P, y, 6, , or ) but a is usually
   used. A preferred a-tocopherol is DL-a-tocopherol.            a-tocopherol succinate is known to be
   compatible with influenza vaccines and to be a useful preservative as an alternative to mercurial
 0 compounds [8].
   Mixtures of oils can be used e.g. squalene and a-tocopherol. An oil content in the range of 2-20% (by
   volume) is typical.
   Surfactants can be classified by their 'HLB' (hydrophile/lipophile balance). Preferred surfactants of
   the invention have a HLB of at least 10, preferably at least 15, and more preferably at least 16. The
 5 invention can be used with surfactants including, but not limited to: the polyoxyethylene sorbitan
   esters surfactants (commonly referred to as the Tweens), especially polysorbate 20 and polysorbate
   80; copolymers of ethylene oxide (EO), propylene oxide (PO), and/or butylene oxide (BO), sold
                                                       -14-

   under the DOWFAXTM tradename, such as linear EO/PO block copolymers; octoxynols, which can
   vary in the number of repeating ethoxy (oxy- 1,2-ethanediyl) groups, with octoxynol-9 (Triton X- 100,
   or t-octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol) being of particular interest; (octylphenoxy)polyethoxyethanol
   (IGEPAL CA-630/NP-40);          phospholipids such as phosphatidyicholine (lecithin); nonylphenol
 5 ethoxylates, such as the TergitolTM NP series; polyoxyethylene fatty ethers derived from lauryl, cetyl,
   stearyl and oleyl alcohols (known as Brij surfactants), such as triethyleneglycol monolauryl ether
   (Brij 30); and sorbitan esters (commonly known as the SPANs), such as sorbitan trioleate (Span 85)
   and sorbitan monolaurate. Non-ionic surfactants are preferred. The most preferred surfactant for
   including in the emulsion is polysorbate 80 (polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate; Tween 80).
 0 Mixtures of surfactants can be used e.g. Tween 80/Span 85 mixtures. A combination of a
   polyoxyethylene sorbitan ester and an octoxynol is also suitable. Another useful combination
   comprises laureth 9 plus a polyoxyethylene sorbitan ester and/or an octoxynol.
   Preferred amounts of surfactants (% by weight) are: polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters (such as Tween
   80) 0.01 to 1%, in particular about 0.1%; octyl- or nonylphenoxy polyoxyethanols (such as Triton
 5 X-100, or other detergents in the Triton series) 0.001 to 0.1 %, in particular 0.005 to 0.02%;
   polyoxyethylene ethers (such as laureth 9) 0.1 to 20 %, preferably 0.1 to 10 % and in particular 0.1 to
   1 % or about 0.5%.
   Squalene-containing oil-in-water emulsions are preferred, particularly those containing polysorbate
   80. The weight ratio of squalene:polysorbate 80 may be between 1 and 10, for example between 2
 0 and 9 e.g. about 2.2 or about 8.3. Specific oil-in-water emulsion adjuvants useful with the invention
   include, but are not limited to:
      *   A submicron emulsion of squalene, polysorbate 80, and sorbitan trioleate. The composition of
          the emulsion by volume can be about 5% squalene, about 0.5% polysorbate 80 and about 0.5%
          Span 85. In weight terms, these ratios become 4.3% squalene, 0.5% polysorbate 80 and 0.48%
25        Span 85. This adjuvant is known as 'MF59' [72-74], as described in more detail in Chapter 10
          of ref. 75 and chapter 12 of ref. 76. The MF59 emulsion advantageously includes citrate ions
          e.g. 10mM sodium citrate buffer.
      *   A submicron emulsion of squalene, a tocopherol, and polysorbate 80. These emulsions may
          have from 2 to 10% squalene, from 2 to 10% tocopherol and from 0.3 to 3% polysorbate 80,
30        and the weight ratio of squalene:tocopherol is preferably   1 (e.g. 0.90) as this can provide a
          more stable emulsion. Squalene and polysorbate 80 may be present at a volume ratio of about
          5:2 or at a weight ratio of about 11:5. One such emulsion can be made by dissolving Tween 80
          in PBS to give a 2% solution, then mixing 90ml of this solution with a mixture of (5g of
          DL-a-tocopherol and Sml squalene), then microfluidising the mixture. The resulting emulsion
35        has submicron oil droplets e.g. with an average diameter of between 100 and 250nm,
         preferably about 180nm. The emulsion may also include a 3-de-O-acylated monophosphoryl
                                                     -15-

     lipid A (3d-MPL). Another useful emulsion of this type may comprise, per human dose, 0.5-10
     mg squalene, 0.5-11 mg tocopherol, and 0.1-4 mg polysorbate 80 [3].
   * An emulsion of squalene, a tocopherol, and a Triton detergent (e.g. Triton X-100). The
     emulsion may also include a 3d-MPL (see below). The emulsion may contain a phosphate
 5   buffer.
   0 An emulsion comprising a polysorbate (e.g. polysorbate 80), a Triton detergent (e.g. Triton
     X-100) and a tocopherol (e.g. an a-tocopherol succinate). The emulsion may include these
     three components at a mass ratio of about 75:11:10 (e.g. 750gg/ml polysorbate 80, 11 Opg/ml
     Triton X-100 and 100 tg/ml a-tocopherol succinate), and these concentrations should include
 0   any contribution of these components from antigens. The emulsion may also include squalene.
     The emulsion may also include a 3d-MPL. The aqueous phase may contain a phosphate buffer.
   e An emulsion of squalane, polysorbate 80 and poloxamer 401 ("PluronicTM L121"). The
     emulsion can be formulated in phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.4. This emulsion is a useful
     delivery vehicle for muramyl dipeptides, and has been used with threonyl-MDP in the
 5   "SAF-1" adjuvant [77] (0.05-1% Thr-MDP, 5% squalane, 2.5% Pluronic L121 and 0.2%
     polysorbate 80). It can also be used without the Thr-MDP, as in the "AF" adjuvant [78] (5%
     squalane, 1.25% Pluronic L121 and 0.2% polysorbate 80). Microfluidisation is preferred.
   * An emulsion comprising squalene, an aqueous solvent, a polyoxyethylene alkyl ether
     hydrophilic    nonionic surfactant     (e.g. polyoxyethylene   (12)  cetostearyl ether)   and a
 0   hydrophobic nonionic surfactant (e.g. a sorbitan ester or mannide ester, such as sorbitan
     monoleate or 'Span 80'). The emulsion is preferably thermoreversible and/or has at least 90%
     of the oil droplets (by volume) with a size less than 200 nm [79]. The emulsion may also
     include one or more of: alditol; a cryoprotective agent (e.g. a sugar, such as dodecylmaltoside
     and/or sucrose); and/or an alkylpolyglycoside. The emulsion may include a TLR4 agonist [80].
25   Such emulsions may be lyophilized.
   * An emulsion of squalene, poloxamer 105 and Abil-Care [81]. The final concentration (weight)
     of these components in adjuvanted vaccines are 5% squalene, 4% poloxarer 105 (pluronic
     polyol)    and   2%    Abil-Care    85    (Bis-PEG/PPG-16/16     PEG/PPG-16/16     dimethicone;
     caprylic/capric triglyceride).
30 e An emulsion having from 0.5-50% of an oil, 0.1-10% of a phospholipid, and 0.05-5% of a
     non-ionic surfactant. As described in reference 82, preferred phospholipid components are
     phosphatidylcholine,     phosphatidylethanolamine,    phosphatidylserine,   phosphatidylinositol,
     phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidic acid, sphingomyelin and cardiolipin. Submicron droplet
     sizes are advantageous.
35 0 A submicron oil-in-water emulsion of a non-metabolisable oil (such as light mineral oil) and at
     least one surfactant (such as lecithin, Tween 80 or Span 80). Additives may be included, such
     as QuilA saponin, cholesterol, a saponin-lipophile conjugate (such as GPI-0l00, described in
                                                  -16-

          reference 83, produced by addition of aliphatic amine to desacylsaponin via the carboxyl group
          of glucuronic acid), dimethyidioctadecylammonium bromide and/or NN-dioctadecyl-NN-bis
          (2-hydroxyethyl)propanediamine.
      "   An emulsion in which a saponin (e.g. QuilA or QS21) and a sterol (e.g. a cholesterol) are
 5        associated as helical micelles [84].
      e   An emulsion comprising a mineral oil, a non-ionic lipophilic ethoxylated fatty alcohol, and a
          non-ionic hydrophilic surfactant (e.g. an ethoxylated fatty alcohol and/or polyoxyethylene
          polyoxypropylene block copolymer) [853.
      e   An emulsion comprising a mineral oil, a non-ionic hydrophilic ethoxylated fatty alcohol, and a
 0        non-ionic lipophilic surfactant (e.g. an ethoxylated fatty alcohol and/or polyoxyethylene
          polyoxypropylene block copolymer) [853.
   The emulsions may be combined with antigen(s) during vaccine manufacture, or may be supplied as
   a separate component for mixing with a separate antigen-containing component extemporaneously, at
   the time of delivery (as in the PREPANDRIXTM product). Where these two components are liquids
 5 then the volume ratio of the two liquids for mixing can vary (e.g. between 5:1 and 1:5) but is
   generally about 1:1.
   After the antigen and adjuvant have been mixed, haemagglutinin antigen will generally remain in
   aqueous solution but may distribute itself around the oil/water interface. In general, little if any
   haemagglutinin will enter the oil phase of the emulsion.
 0 The weight ratio of squalene to hemagglutinin (total amount) in a composition of the invention may
   be in the range from 20 to 180 e.g. 25-30, 50-60, 105-115.
   Methods of treatment, and administration of the vaccine
   Compositions of the invention are suitable for administration to human patients, and the invention
   provides a method of raising an immune response in a patient, comprising the step of administering a
25 composition of the invention to the patient.
   The invention also provides a composition of the invention for use as a medicament.
   The invention also provides the use of at least one influenza A virus antigen, at least one influenza B
   virus antigen, and squalene (e.g. in the form of an oil-in-water emulsion), in the manufacture of a
   composition for active immunization against influenza disease, wherein the composition is a vaccine
30 having the characteristics described above.
   These methods and uses will generally be used to generate an antibody response, preferably a
   protective antibody response. Methods for assessing antibody responses, neutralising capability and
   protection after influenza virus vaccination are well known in the art. Human studies have shown that
   antibody titers against hernagglutinin of human influenza virus are correlated with protection (a
 5 serum sample hemagglutination-inhibition titer of about 30-40 gives around 50% protection from
                                                     -17-

   infection by a homologous           virus) [86]. Antibody responses      are typically measured by
   hemagglutination inhibition, by microneutralisation, by single radial immunodiffusion (SRID),
   and/or by single radial hemolysis (SRH). These assay techniques are well known in the art.
   Compositions of the invention can be administered in various ways. The most preferred
 5 immunisation route is by intramuscular injection (e.g. into the arm or leg) but other available routes
   include subcutaneous injection, intradermal injection [87,88], intranasal [89-91], oral [92], buccal,
   sublingual, transcutaneous, transdermal [93], etc.
   Vaccines prepared according to the invention may be used to treat both children and adults. Influenza
   vaccines are currently recommended for use in pediatric and adult immunisation, from the age of 6
 0 months. Thus the patient may be less than 1 year old, 6-<36 months old, 1-5 years old, 5-15 years
   old, 15-55 years old, or at least 55 years old. Preferred patients for receiving the vaccines are the
   elderly (e.g. >50 years old, >60 years old, and preferably :65 years), the young (e.g. <55 years old),
   hospitalised patients, healthcare workers, armed service and military personnel, pregnant women, the
   chronically ill, immunodeficient patients, patients who have taken an antiviral compound (e.g. an
 5 oseltamivir or zanamivir compound; see below) in the 7 days prior to receiving the vaccine, people
   with egg allergies and people travelling abroad. The vaccines are not suitable solely for these groups,
   however, and may be used more generally in a population.
   Preferred compositions of the invention satisfy 1, 2 or 3 of the CPMP criteria for efficacy. In adults
   (18-60 years), these criteria are: (1) >70% seroprotection; (2)     40% seroconversion; and/or (3) a
 0 GMT increase of >2.5-fold. In elderly (>60 years), these criteria are: (1) >60% seroprotection;
   (2) >30% seroconversion; and/or (3) a GMT increase of >2-fold. These criteria are based on open
   label studies with at least 50 patients.
   Treatment can be by a single dose schedule or a multiple dose schedule. Multiple doses may be used
   in a primary immunisation schedule and/or in a booster immunisation schedule. In a multiple dose
25 schedule the various doses may be given by the same or different routes e.g. a parenteral prime and
   mucosal boost, a mucosal prime and parenteral boost, etc. Administration of more than one dose
   (typically two doses) is particularly useful in immunologically naYve patients e.g. for people who
   have never received an influenza vaccine before, or for vaccines including a new HA subtype.
   Multiple doses will typically be administered at least I week apart (e.g. about 2 weeks, about 3
30 weeks, about 4 weeks, about 6 weeks, about 8 weeks, about 12 weeks, about 16 weeks, etc.).
   Vaccines produced by the invention may be administered to patients at substantially the same time as
   (e.g. during the same medical consultation or visit to a healthcare professional or vaccination centre)
   other vaccines e.g. at substantially the same time as a measles vaccine, a mumps vaccine, a rubella
   vaccine, a MMR vaccine, a varicella vaccine, a MMRV vaccine, a diphtheria vaccine, a tetanus
35 vaccine, a pertussis vaccine, a DTP vaccine, a conjugated Hinfluenzae type b vaccine, an inactivated
   poliovirus vaccine, a hepatitis B virus vaccine, a meningococcal conjugate vaccine (such as a
   tetravalent A-C-W135-Y vaccine), a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine, a pneumococcal conjugate
                                                     -18-

  vaccine, etc. Administration at substantially the same time as a pneumococcal vaccine and/or a
  meningococcal vaccine is particularly useful in elderly patients.
  Similarly, vaccines of the invention may be administered to patients at substantially the same time as
   (e.g. during the same medical consultation or visit to a healthcare professional) an antiviral
5 compound, and in particular an antiviral compound active against influenza virus (e.g. oseltamivir
  and/or zanamivir). These antivirals include neuraminidase inhibitors, such as a (3R,4R,5S)-4
  acetylamino-5-amino-3(1-ethylpropoxy)-1-cyclohexene-1-carboxylic            acid  or 5-(acetylamino)-4
   [(aminoiminomethyl)-amino]-2,6-anhydro-3,4,5-trideoxy-D-glycero-D-galactonon-2-enonic                acid,
  including esters thereof (e.g. the ethyl esters) and salts thereof (e.g. the phosphate salts). A preferred
0 antiviral is (3R,4R,5S)-4-acetylamino-5-amino-3(1-ethylpropoxy)-1-cyclohexene-1-carboxylic            acid,
  ethyl ester, phosphate (1:1), also known as oseltamivir phosphate (TAMIFLUTM).
   General
  The term "comprising" encompasses "including" as well as "consisting" e.g. a composition
  "comprising" X may consist exclusively of X or may include something additional e.g. X + Y.
5 The word "substantially" does not exclude "completely" e.g. a composition which is "substantially
  free" from Y may be completely free from Y. Where necessary, the word "substantially" may be
  omitted from the definition of the invention.
  The tern "about" in relation to a numerical value x is optional and means, for example, x+ 10%.
  Unless specifically stated, a process comprising a step of mixing two or more components does not
D require any specific order of mixing. Thus components can be mixed in any order. Where there are
  three components then two components can be combined with each other, and then the combination
  may be combined with the third component, etc.
  Where animal (and particularly bovine) materials are used in the culture of cells, they should be
  obtained from sources that are free from transmissible spongiform encaphalopathies (TSEs), and in
5 particular free from bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Overall, it is preferred to culture cells
  in the total absence of animal-derived materials.
  Where a cell substrate is used for reassortment or reverse genetics procedures, or for viral growth, it
  is preferably one that has been approved for use in human vaccine production e.g. as in Ph Eur
  general chapter 5.2.3.
0 MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
  595 patients (male & female children, 6 to <36 months) are split into 17 groups of 35 each. Each of
  the groups receives either trivalent (A/HINI, A/H3N2, B) or tetravalent (A/HINI, A/H3N2,
  B/Victoria, B/Yamagata) influenza vaccine. The vaccine is administered either as a 0.5mL volume
  (15pig/dose/strain; 45ptg or 60ptg in total) or as a 0.25mL volume (7 .5ptg/dose/strain; 22.5ptg or 30ptg
5 in total). One of the groups receives an pediatric dose of an existing marketed trivalent inactivated
                                                      -19-

   vaccine. The vaccine is given by intramuscular injection and is supplied either in pre-filled syringes
   or in vials. Three different adjuvant quantities (achieved by dilution) are tested.
   The trivalent vaccine includes influenza strains as recommended for the influenza season 2008-2009
   in the Northern       Hemisphere:     A/Brisbane/59/2007-like,    A/Brisbane/10/2007-like  virus, and
 5 B/Florida/4/2006-like. The B/Florida/4/2006-like virus is in the B/Yamagata lineage, so the
   tetravalent vaccine additionally included antigen from B/Malaysia/2506/2004-like virus, which is in
   the B/Victoria lineage.
   Subjects receive two doses of vaccine at days 1 and 29 (except for two groups, who receive a single
   dose at day 1) and influenza-specific immune responses are assessed by analyzing blood collected at
 0 baseline (prior to vaccination), at day 28 and at day 50. Serum samples are assessed by strain-specific
   hemagglutination inhibition (HI) assays against influenza strains A/H1N1, A/H3N2 and B, including
   homologous and heterovariant strains.
   Thus the 17 groups are as follows:
      Group       HIN1          H3N2        B/Yam          B/Vic     Squalene      Number      Dose
                   (pg)          (pg)         (pg)          (pg)        (mg)        of doses   (mL)
         A          7.5           7.5          7.5            -            -            2       0.25
         B           15           15            15            -            -            2        0.5
         C          7.5           7.5          7.5           7.5           -            2       0.25
         D          15            15            15           15            -            2        0.5
         E          7.5           7.5          7.5            -          1.22           2       0.25
         F          7.5           7.5          7.5           7.5         1.22           2       0.25
         G          7.5           7.5          7.5            -         2.44            2       0.25
         H          15            15            15            -         2.44            2       0.5
          I         7.5           7.5          7.5           7.5        2.44            2       0.25
          J         15            15            15           15         2.44            2       0.5
         K          7.5           7.5          7.5            -         4.88            2       0.25
         L          15            15            15            -         4.88            2       0.5
         M          7.5           7.5          7.5           7.5        4.88            2       0.25
         N          15             15           15           15         4.88            2       0.5
         0          15            15            15            -         9.75            1       0.5
         P           15            15           15           15         9.75            1        0.5
         Q          7.5           7.5          7.5            -            -            2       0.25
15 In a further study, 357 patients (male & female, >65 years old) are split into 8 groups. Each of the
   groups receives a trivalent influenza vaccine (A/HINI, A/H3N2, B) by intramuscular injection
   (0.5mL), with or without a squalene-in-water emulsion. The vaccine is supplied in pre-filled
   syringes. Three different adjuvant quantities (achieved by dilution) are tested.
   The influenza strains are as recommended for the influenza season 2008-2009 in the Northern
20 Hemisphere: A/Brisbane/59/2007-like, A/Brisbane/10/2007-like virus, and B/Florida/4/2006-like.
                                                      -20-

    Subjects receive a single dose and intllea-specitic immune tesponses are assessed by                         salyzing blo d
    collected a baseline priorl             vaccinion),a 7 days (Day X), and a121 dae              (Day 22) after vacinatitl
    Serum     samples    ree assessed by stainirecific         hemtagglutinat       m inhiblin   (Hil a       s a against  itfluenza
    stains AH]Nt,lA/H3N2 and B. Cell-edised imunity assaysarealsa performied
   5 TIus theelight goua          t e as towt.s:
       Group              NI(pg)               HNZp                            Bpg)          Squalene(mg)           Daoe(mL)
          A                 15                  15                          1-                                   ]        0.5
           B                15           )           30                              15               ..                  0.5
           C                  5                       15                        5                 2A4                     05
                            15                       30                            15             2.44                        0.5
                                                 E15 15                        I5                 4.88                    0.5
           F                15                       30                        f5                 4-88                    05
                                        GG5                             I5              15              93                0.5
           H                15            |          30                        14                  9315           J       0.5
    For botl influenza A stains all             n'e J CFMP criteria are met in patient groups C-I            I (e. the aduumned
    eaccines).
    For te intiuenza B stainallil tee GIMP criteria                 are      e inthe groups whichreceive 4.S           g squalene
  0 or 975mg squalene            I   th group whirh receives the unadjuvaned vaccine, only one of be CIiMP
      riterials    et, butinthe gropwhich receives 2.44mg squaleneienofthe threeClIMPcriterinaremet
    Thus, even a low dose of squalen             in the vaccine can Inrease the itnnme protection against influenza A
    and B strais.
 5 It     wti be undetloed      that the invention has been described by way of example only and                      oditicatiosns
     may be madewist          remaining     wiltin the scope and spirit ofte inventism.
     The invention may be described according one or mre ofthe following statements:
    Statement I: An influenza virus vaccine comprising                     (ijhemagglutinin fmm at least two influenza A
 0 vilstains and at leastta               influenza     Bvirusstain and           ii anoil-in-water emulsion        adjuvant wt
    submiemnoil dplets. comprisingsqalene, whet                              Iesqual.e  concentmtionis<19mg/L
    Statement 2: An influenza            ims vacine comprisin               (i hemagglutinin from at least ane influenza A
           visl stan and at loas      one influenza         virus   srain      wherein  te   hemagglutinin concentaio,              s
     >12pg/ml        ar staLin      and Iii) an      oil-in-water    emulsion       adjuvant with submiemn           oil droplets,
5   comprising squalee, wherethesquaiene concentrations <19mg/mL
    Statement 3 A mercury-free               ttn.enza rme      vaccine comprising         i) hetnagglutinin fm        at least ne
    influenza A vims         train and at least one influenza B virus srain; and li )i                   oilm-in-water emulsion
                                                                  - 211-

   adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is
   <19mg/mi.
   Statement 4: An influenza virus vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A
   virus strain and at least one influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with
 5 submicron oil droplets, comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is 9.75mg/mL or
   4.88mg/mL.
   Statement 5: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-4, having a unit dose volume of 0.5mL.
   Statement 6: An influenza virus vaccine having a unit dose volume between 0.2-0.3mL, wherein the
   vaccine comprises: (i) hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus strain and at least one
10 influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets,
   comprising squalene, where the squalene concentration is <1 9mg/ml.
   Statement 7: An influenza virus vaccine having a unit dose volume between 0.2-0.3mL, comprising:
   (i) hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus strain and at least one influenza B virus strain;
   and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, comprising squalene, where
15 the squalene concentration is 19.5mg/mL, 9.75mg/mL or 4.88mg/mL.
   Statement 8: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-7, wherein the hemagglutinins are in the form
   of split virions, or purified surface antigens.
   Statement 9: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-8, comprising hemagglutinin from: (i) a HlN1
   influenza A virus strain; (ii) a H3N2 influenza A virus strain; (iii) a B/Victoria/2/8 7-like influenza B
20 virus strain; and (iv) B/Yamagata/16/88-like influenza B virus strain.
   Statement 10: The vaccine of any one of Statements                 1-9, wherein the concentration of
   hemagglutinin per strain is at least 25ptg/ml.
   Statement 11: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-10, wherein the concentration of squalene is
   <1Omg/ml.
25 Statement 12: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-11, wherein the weight ratio of squalene to
   hemagglutinin in a composition of the invention is in the range from 20 to 180.
   Statement 13: The vaccine of any one of Statements 4-12, wherein the vaccine is a trivalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/HIN1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain and a B strain, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30ptg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
30 19.5mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.25ml.
   Statement 14: The vaccine of any one of Statements 2-5 or 8-12, wherein the vaccine is a trivalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain and a B strain, having a
                                                     - 22 -

   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30ptg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
   9.75mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.5ml.
   Statement 15: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-5 or 7-12, wherein the vaccine is a tetravalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an influenza B virus strain in
 5 the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the B/Victoria lineage, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30tg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
   19.5mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.25ml.
   Statement 16: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-5 or 8-12, wherein the vaccine is a tetravalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an influenza B virus strain in
10 the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the B/Victoria lineage, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30pg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
   9.75mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.5ml.
   Statement 17: The vaccine of any one of Statements 2-12, wherein the vaccine is a trivalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/HI NI strain, a A/H3N2 strain and a B strain, having a
15 hemagglutinin concentration of about 30 tg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
   9.75mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.25ml. 18.
   Statement 18: The vaccine of any one of Statements 2-5 or 8-12, wherein the vaccine is a trivalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain and a B strain, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30ptg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
20 4.88mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.5ml.
   Statement 19: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-12, wherein the vaccine is a tetravalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an influenza B virus strain in
   the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the B/Victoria lineage, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30ptg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
25 9.75mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.25ml.
   Statement 20: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-5 or 8-12, wherein the vaccine is a tetravalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an influenza B virus strain in
   the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the B/Victoria lineage, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30 tg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
30 4.88mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.5ml.
   Statement 21: The vaccine of any one of Statements 2-12, wherein the vaccine is a trivalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain and a B strain, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30[tg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
   4.88mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.25ml.
                                                 - 23 -

   Statement 22: The vaccine of any one of Statements 1-12, wherein the vaccine is a tetravalent
   inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an influenza B virus strain in
   the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the B/Victoria lineage, having a
   hemagglutinin concentration of about 30ptg/ml per strain, a squalene concentration of about
 5 4.88mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.25ml.
   Statement 23: A method of raising an immune response in a patient, comprising the step of
   administering the vaccine of any one of Statements 1-22 to the patient.
   REFERENCES
10 [1] Minutello el al. (1999) Vaccine 17:99-104.
   [2] W02007/052155.
   [3] W02008/043774.
   [4] WO02/28422.
   [5] WO02/067983.
15 [6] WO02/074336.
   [7] WOO1/21151.
   [8] WO02/097072.
   [9] W02005/113756.
   [10] Huckriede et al. (2003) Methods Enzymol 373:74-91.
20 [11] Saito et al. (2004) JMed Virol 74(2): 336-43.
   [12] Hoffmann et al. (2002) Vaccine 20:3165-3170.
   [13] Subbarao et al. (2003) Virology 305:192-200.
   [14] Liu et al. (2003) Virology 314:580-590.
   [15] Oz6i et al. (2004) J. Virol 78:1851-1857.
25 [16] Webby et al. (2004) Lancet 363:1099-1103.
   [17] WOOO/60050.
   [18] WOO1/04333.
   [19] US patent 6649372.
   [20] Neumann et al. (2005) ProcNatl Acad Sci USA 102:16825-9.
30 [21] W02006/067211.
   [22] WOO1/83794.
   [23] Hoffmann et al. (2000) Virology 267(2):310-7.
   [24] Herlocher et al. (2004) JInfect Dis 190(9): 1627-30.
   [25] Le et al. (2005) Nature 437(7062):1108.
35 [26] Gambaryan & Matrosovich (1992) Virol Methods 39(1-2): 111-23.
   [27] Mastrosovich et al. (1999) J Virol 73: 1146-55.
   [28] Stevens et al. (2006) JMoIBiol 355:1143-55.
                                                      - 24 -

   [29] Couceiro & Baum (1994) Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz 89(4):587-91.
   [30] W02008/068631.
   [31] Rota et al. (1992) J Gen Virol 73:2737-42.
   [32] GenBank sequence GL325176.
 5 [33] McCullers et al. (1999) J Virol 73:7343-8.
   [34] GenBank sequence GL325237.
   [35] TYQWOV et al. (1996) JInfectDis 173: 1467-70.
   [36] Keitel et al. (1996) CHn Diagn Lab Immunol 3:507 -\0.
   [37] Kistner et al. (1998) Vaccine 16:960-8.
10 [38] Kistner et al. (1999) Dev Biol Stand 98:101-110.
   [39] Bruhl et al. (2000) Vaccine 19: 1 149-58.
   [40] Pau et al. (2001) Vaccine 19:2716-21.
   [41 ] http://www. atcc. org/
   [42] http: /locus, umdnj. edu/
15 [43] W003/076601.
   [44] W02005/042728.
   [45] W003/043415.
   [46] WO01/85938.
   [47] W02006/108846.
20 [48] W097/37000.
   [49] Brands et al. (1999) Dev Biol Stand 98:93-100.
   [50] Halperin et al. (2002) Vaccine 20: 1240-7.
   [51] Tree et al. (2001) Vaccine 19:3444-50.
   [52] EP-A- 1260581 (WOO1/64S46).
25 [53] W02006/071563.
   [54] W02005/1 13758.
   [55] W097/37001.
   [56] W02006/027698.
   [57] EP-B-0870508.
30 [58] US 5948410.
   [59] Lundblad (2001) Biotechnology and Applied Biochemistry 34:195-197.
   [60] Guidancefor Industry: BioanalyticalMethod Validation. U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services Food and Drug Administration Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) Center for
   Veterinary Medicine (CVM). May 2001.
35 [61] Ji et al. (2002) Biotechniques. 32:1162-7.
   [62] Briggs (1991) JParenterSci Technol. 45:7-12.
   [63] Lahijani et al. (199S) Hum Gene Ther. 9:1173-80.
   [64] Lokteff et al. (2001) Biologicals.29:123-32.
                                                     - 25 -

   [65] Gennaro (2000) Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy. 20th edition, ISBN:
   0683306472.
   [66] Banzhoff (2000) Immunology Letters 71:91-96.
   [67] OHagan (2001) Expert Rev Vaccines. 6(5):699-710.
 5 [68] Bernstein et al. (2008) JInfect Dis. 197(5):667-75.
   [69] Stephenson et al. (2005) JInfect Dis. 191(8): 1210-5.
   [70] Han et al. (2005) Impact of Vitamin E on Immune Function and Infectious Diseases in the Aged at
   Nutrition,Immune functions and Health EuroConference, Paris, 9-10 June 2005.
   [71] US- 6630161.
10 [72] W090/14837.
   [73] Podda & Del Giudice (2003) Expert Rev Vaccines 2:197-203.
   [74] Podda (2001) Vaccine 19: 2673-2680.
   [75] Vaccine Design: The Subunit and Adjuvant Approach (eds. Powell & Newman) Plenum Press 1995
   (ISBN 0-306-44867-X).
15 [76] Vaccine Adjuvants: PreparationMethods and Research Protocols (Volume 42 of Methods in
   MolecularMedicine series). ISBN: 1-59259-083-7. Ed. O'Hagan.
   [77] Allison & Byars ( 1992) Res Immunol 143 :519-25.
   [78] Hariharan et al. (1995) Cancer Res 55:3486-9.
   [79] US-2007/0014805.
20 [80] US-2007/0191314.
   [81] Suli et al. (2004) Vaccine 22(25-26):3464-9.
   [82] W095/1 1700.
   [83] US patent 6,080,725.
   [84] W02005/097181.
25 [85] W02006/113373.
   [86] Potter & Oxford (1979) Br Med Bull 35: 69-75.
   [87] Halperin et al. (1979) Am JPublicHealth 69: 1247-50.
   [88] Herbert et al. (1979) JInfect Dis 140:234-8.
   [89] Greenbaum et al. (2004) Vaccine 22:2566-77.
30 [90] Zurbriggen et al. (2003) Expert Rev Vaccines 2:295-304.
   [91] Piascik (2003) JAm PharmAssoc (Wash DC). 43:728-30.
   [92] Mann et al. (2004) Vaccine 22:2425-9.
   [93] Chen et al. (2003) Vaccine 21:2830-6.
                                                      - 26  -

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       An influenza virus vaccine when used to raise an immune response in an elderly patient, said
vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin from at least two influenza A virus strains and at least two
influenza B virus strains, wherein the vaccine comprises at least 25tg/mL of hemagglutinin per strain of
influenza virus and wherein the at least two influenza B virus strains include a B/Victoria/2/87 -like
influenza B virus strain and a B/Yamagata/16/88-like influenza B virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water
emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, the adjuvant comprising squalene at a concentration in the
vaccine of less than 19mg/mL.
2.       A method of raising an immune response in an elderly patient, said method comprising
administering to the patient an influenza virus vaccine comprising: (i) hemagglutinin from at least two
influenza A virus strains and at least two influenza B virus strains, wherein the vaccine comprises at least
25ptg/mL of hemagglutinin per strain of influenza virus and wherein the at least two influenza B virus
strains include a B/Victoria/2/87-like influenza B virus strain and a B/Yamagata/16/88-like influenza B
virus strain; and (ii) an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, the adjuvant
comprising squalene at a concentration in the vaccine of less than 19mg/mL.
3.       Use of hemagglutinin from at least one influenza A virus strain and at least one influenza B virus
strain and an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets in the preparation of an influenza
virus vaccine for raising an immune response in an elderly patient, wherein said vaccine comprises:
       (i)        hemagglutinin from at least two influenza A virus strains and at least two influenza B
       virus strains, wherein the vaccine comprises at least 25tg/mL of hemagglutinin per strain of
       influenza virus and wherein the at least two influenza B virus strains include a B/Victoria/2/87-like
       influenza B virus strain and a B/Yamagata/16/88-like influenza B virus strain; and
       (ii)       an oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant with submicron oil droplets, the adjuvant comprising
       squalene at a concentration in the vaccine of less than 19mg/mL.
4.       The vaccine of claim 1, the method of claim 2 or the use of claim 3, wherein the concentration of
squalene is   10mg/mL.
5.       The vaccine of claims 1 or 4, the method of claims 2 or 4, or the use of claims 3 or 4, wherein the
elderly patient is > 60 years of age.
6.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1, 4 or 5, the method of any one of claims 2, 4 or 5, or the use
of any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the elderly patient is > 65 years of age.
7.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 6, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 6, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 6, wherein the influenza A virus strains are an HI subtype and an H3
subtype.
8.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 7, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 7, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein the vaccine comprises hemagglutinin from: (i) a HINI influenza
A virus strain; (ii) a H3N2 influenza A virus strain; (iii) a B/Victoria/2/87 like influenza B virus strain;
and (iv) B/Yamagata/16/88 like influenza B virus strain.
                                                    - 27 -

9.        The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 8, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 8, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 8, wherein the vaccine has a unit dose volume of about 0.5mL.
10.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 5 to 9, the method of any one of claims 2 or 5 to 9, or the
use of any one of claims 3 or 5 to 9, wherein the concentration of squalene in the vaccine is in the range
of 2.5mg/mL to l9mg/mL or 2.5mg/mL to 10mg/mL.
11.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 10, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 10, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 10, wherein the squalene concentration in the vaccine is 9.75mg/mL or
4.88mg/mL.
12.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 11, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 11, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 11, wherein the amount of squalene per vaccine dose is 5.3mg, 4.9mg,
2.7mg, 2.4mg, or 1.2mg.
13.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 12, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 12, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 12, wherein the hemagglutinin concentration in the vaccine is >30[tg/ml or
is about 30gg/ml per strain.
14.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 13, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 13, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 13, wherein the amount of hemagglutinin per vaccine dose is about 15pg per
strain.
15.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 14, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 14, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 14, wherein:
        (a)       the concentration of hemagglutinin is the same for each strain in the vaccine composition;
        and/or
        (b)       the weight ratio of squalene to hemagglutinin in the vaccine is in the range from 20 to
        180; and/or
        (c)       the hemagglutinins are in the form of split virions, or purified surface antigens, or
        wherein the influenza virus antigens are in the form of virosomes.
16.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 15, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 15, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 15, wherein:
        (a)       the influenza virus strains have not been passaged through eggs; and/or
        (b)       the vaccine is substantially free from mercurial material, optionally wherein the vaccine
        is thiomersal-free; and/or
        (c)       the vaccine is free of preservatives.
17.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 16, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 16, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 16, wherein the submicron oil in water emulsion adjuvant includes
polysorbate 80 and/or a tocopherol.
18.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 17, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 17, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 17, wherein the vaccine is:
        (a)       a tetravalent inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an
        influenza B virus strain in the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the
                                                      - 28 -

       B/Victoria lineage, having a hemagglutinin concentration of about 30ptg/ml per strain, a squalene
       concentration of about 9.75mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.5ml, or
        (b)       a tetravalent inactivated influenza vaccine with a A/H1N1 strain, a A/H3N2 strain, an
       influenza B virus strain in the B/Yamagata lineage, and an influenza B virus strain in the
       B/Victoria lineage, having a hemagglutinin concentration of about 30sg/ml per strain, a squalene
       concentration of about 4.88mg/ml, and a unit dosage volume of about 0.5ml.
19.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 18, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 18, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 18, wherein the vaccine elicits a protective antibody response in the patient
when administered thereto.
20.       The vaccine of any one of claims 1 or 4 to 19, the method of any one of claims 2 or 4 to 19, or the
use of any one of claims 3 to 19, characterized in that when the vaccine is administered to a population of
at least 50 patients, the vaccine elicits efficacy that satisfies at least two of the following criteria: (i) >60%
seroprotection; (ii)   30% seroconversion; and/or (iii) a GMT increase of 2-fold.
                                                       - 29 -

