ABSTRACT
A locating washer including a shaped body having a pair of opposed faces, a shaped locating
boss on a first of the opposed faces, a number of locating formations on a second on the opposed
faces and an opening through the body through the shaped locating boss and a mounting
assembly for an object including a mounting bracket and at least one locating washer.


                                                     I
A LOCATING WASHER AND MOUNTING ASSEMBLY INCLUDING SAME
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates generally to mechanical fixtures and particularly to a
locating washer and mounting assembly including same.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       There can be a need on the part of a user mounting an object relative to a surface or
other object, to adjust the position and orientation of the object. For example, one situation in
which this may occur is mounting an external spotlight relative to a vehicle.
[0003]       A spotlight is normally mounted relative to a vehicle or vehicle accessory such as a
bull bar or similar through the provision of a substantially C-shaped bracket which is fixed to the
vehicle and with a pair of spaced apart ends, each with an opening and between which a light
housing can be fitted. The light housing is normally provided with a pair of internally threaded
openings, one on either lateral side and a threaded clamping assembly is provided with an
externally threaded member corresponding to the internally threaded opening. The light housing
is located between the spaced apart ends of the bracket and the externally threaded member is
inserted through the opening in the spaced apart ends into the internally threaded opening in the
light housing. Tightening the clamping assembly can then temporarily fix the orientation of the
light housing.
[0004]       One issue that this arrangement can suffer is that the vibration induced in the vehicle
through operation or use can work the threaded clamping assembly loose which then causes the
light housing to move to an undesirable position. Using a material such as "Loctite@" or similar
can help maintain the threaded clamping assembly in position but can make adjustment more
difficult.
[0005]       It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[00061       The present invention is directed to a locating washer and mounting assembly
including same, which may at least partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned

disadvantages or provide the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
[00071        With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
locating washer including a shaped body having a pair of opposed faces, a shaped locating boss
on a first of the opposed faces, a number of locating formations on a second on the opposed faces
and an opening through the body through the shaped locating boss.
[0008]        The locating washer of the present invention can be used to locate and orient any type
of object. In a preferred embodiment, the locating washer can be used to position and orient a
light, such as a light attached to or relative to a vehicle or vehicle accessory and in the context of
the present specification, may be described as such, but the use of the locating washer is not
limited by the description of its use in relation to lights.
[0009]        Generally, the locating washer of the present invention will be used interposed
between a mounting bracket or portion thereof and an object to be mounted relative to the
mounting bracket. The locating washer will typically allow orientation of the object to be
adjusted relative to the mounting bracket and then to be fixed at least temporarily.
[0010]        Preferably, the shaped locating boss will maintain the position of the locating washer
relative to the mounting bracket. Preferably, the locking formations act to maintain the
orientation of the object relative to the locating washer.
[0011]        The locating washer of the present invention is generally used in association with a
clamping mechanism. Preferably, the locating washer will be clamped to the object and
preferably between the object and some form of mounting assembly. It is preferred that a
threaded clamping mechanism be used. Preferably, an internally threaded opening is provided,
preferably on the object. A corresponding threaded member which is associated with a clamp
assembly is preferably provided for insertion into the internally threaded opening through the
preferred mounting bracket and then tightened until a portion of the clamping assembly abuts a
portion of the mounting bracket to hold the mounting bracket and the locating washer between
the clamp assembly and the object.
[0012]        The locating washer of the present invention includes a shaped body having a pair of
opposed faces. For convenience, the opposed faces of the locating washer of the present
invention include a first face also referred to herein as the obverse face and a second face, also
referred to herein as the reverse face.
[00131        Preferably, the shaped body is solid and will typically be manufactured from a robust

                                                   -Y
material such as an engineering plastic but any material, for example a metal or composite
material could be used. The material is preferably rigid to resist deformation, particularly through
the application of the clamping force.
[0014]       The shaped body typically includes an opening. Preferably, the opening is
substantially centrally located through the shaped body. It is preferred that the opening is
substantially circular although any shaped opening could be used.
[0015]       The shaped body is typically provided with a shape which is conducive to its function
as a washer. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the body is substantially annular with a
central opening as described above extending through the body and with a substantially circular
periphery, to define the preferred annular shape.
[0016]       The first and second faces are preferably substantially parallel to one another, one on
either side of the shaped body. The first and second faces will typically be substantially annular
although the shaped locating boss on the first face of the locating washer may disrupt the annular
shape on this side.
[00171       In a preferred form, the first or obverse face is typically located towards an outside of
a mounting assembly, away from the object and the second or reverse face is typically located
toward the object and preferably, in abutment with a portion of the object to be mounted.
Typically, the first or obverse face may be provided with a smooth surface although in certain
circumstances or embodiments, one or more locating formations may be provided on the first or
obverse face. Preferably, the shaped locating boss is provided on the first or obverse face,
typically protruding or extending or standing proud of the obverse face.
[0018]       At least one shaped locating boss may be provided on the first or obverse face of the
body and more than one locating boss can be provided. However, in a preferred embodiment, a
single shaped locating boss is provided. Although any shape can be used, a shape with a planar
edges is more advantageous. A rectangular shape is most preferred due to the provision of a pair
of spaced apart, substantially parallel side edges on the shaped locating boss as these parallel side
edges can be used to locate the shaped locating boss within an opening in a mounting bracket or
assembly.
[0019]       Preferably, the shaped locating boss protrudes or extends or stands proud of the
obverse surface of the body of the locating washer. Typically, the central opening of the locating
washer is provided through the shaped locating boss.

                                                      -r
[00201        As mentioned above, the obverse surface or at least the annular portion other than the
shaped locating boss may be provided with at least one, and preferably a number of locating
formations. In a preferred embodiment, the shaped locating boss may be provided with one or
more locating formations.
[0021]        Typically, the locating formations provided on the obverse surface and/or the shaped
locating boss will differ in configuration to those provided on the reverse or second surface. In a
preferred embodiment, the locating formations provided on the obverse surface and/or the shaped
locating boss are preferably configured to allow the position of the locating washer to be fixed
relative to the opening provided on the mounting bracket or assembly relative to which the
locating washer is positioned.
[0022]        For example, the locating boss may be received in a corresponding size and shaped
opening in which case, the shape of the locating boss will typically correspond substantially to
the size and shape of the shaped opening in order to fix the locating boss, and therefore fix the
locating washer, in position relative to the bracket or assembly.
[0023]        However, the mounting bracket or assembly may be provided with an elongate slot
opening which is longer than the length of the locating boss but corresponding substantially in
width to the locating boss which will preferably provide an elongate slot track in the bracket or
assembly to allow the locating boss to be moved longitudinally over the length of the slot
opening. This means that the user can slide the locating boss to any position in the slot opening.
In this configuration, at least one, and preferably a number of locating formations may be
provided on the obverse surface of the body and/or the shaped locating boss. Where provided,
typically the number of locating formations are linear to allow the locating boss to traverse the
long axis of the slot opening. It is preferred that any locating formations be provided oriented
substantially transversely to the long axis of the slot opening.
[0024]        In this configuration, it is preferred that the locating formations be or include at least
one locating ridge or similar. The bracket or assembly may be provided with one or more
corresponding depressions into which the at least one locating ridge can be at least partially
received in order to seat the at least one locating ridge at least partially within the depression is to
fix the position of the body with more stability relative to the bracket or assembly. In use, this
will allow a user to move the locating washer within the length of the slot opening to choose the
position of the locating washer and the object and then to fix the position of the locating washer
and the object with increased security rather than just relying on clamping force between two

substantially flat surfaces as occurs in the priori art and which may provide sufficient security but
the locating formations provide enhanced security.
[0025]       Typically, in this configuration any locating formations will preferably be formed
standing proud of or raised above the surface of the obverse surface of the body and/or of the
shaped locating boss.
[0026]       Of course, the opposite configuration could be used with one or more depressions
provided into the obverse surface of the body and/or the shaped locating boss and one or more
corresponding ridges provided on the bracket or assembly adjacent to the elongate slot opening.
[00271       Preferably, a number of locating formations are provided on the reverse or second
surface of the body of the locating washer. Preferably, the locating formations provided on the
reverse surface of the body are preferably radially extending formations used to orient the object.
Preferably, the radially extending formations will radiate from the centre of the body extending
on the annular portion of the reverse surface between the preferred substantially central opening
and the outer edge of the body.
[0028]       Preferably, the locating formations are provided in the form of a plurality of
alternating ridges and depressions. Any number of alternating ridges and depressions may be
provided and the number of ridges and depressions provided will determine the number of
positions or stops at which the object can be at least temporarily fixed. For example, if locating
formations are provided at the four cardinal points only, then there will typically be only four
positions at which the object can be fixed but if alternating ridges and depressions are provided
completely about the annular portion of the reverse surface, then many more positions can be
provided and the object can be adjusted in a corresponding number of increments.
[0029]       The locating formations can have any shape. Where provided in the form of
alternating ridges and depressions for example, it is preferred that the ridges and the
corresponding depressions are typically arcuate or triangular in cross-section.
[0030]       It is preferred that corresponding locating formations are provided on or in
association with the object. For example, two locating washers may be provided as a part of a
locating system with the reverse faces of the locating washers positioned relative to one another
and the locating bosses locating the respective locating washers positioned one relative to the
bracket and one relative to the object. In other words, the object may have an opening which is
shaped to receive the locating boss on one of the locating washers.

                                                    V
[00311       Alternatively and more preferred however, a shaped portion may be provided on the
object or into the object with corresponding locating formations such that only a single locating
washer is used. Preferably, the corresponding locating formations provided on the object are
provided in a depression which is shaped to correspond with the shape of the reverse surface of
the locating washer. Typically, the locating formations provided on the object will be provided
about an internally threaded opening extending into the object, the threaded opening to receive a
correspondingly threaded member forming part of a clamp mechanism.
[0032]       The corresponding formations can be moulded or stamped into the object.
[0033]       As mentioned above, the locating washer of the present invention is particularly well
adapted to mounting a light or similar. In this configuration, a set of corresponding locating
formations can be provided on either lateral side of the housing of the light in order to allow the
mounting of the light using the locating washer of the present invention. However, it is possible
that only a single locating washer need be provided on one of the sides only in order to maintain
the position of the light.
[0034]       In another form, the present invention resides in a mounting assembly for an object,
the mounting assembly including a mounting bracket having at least one bracket arm with a
shaped opening therein and a locating washer including a shaped body having a pair of opposed
faces, a shaped locating boss on a first of the opposed faces, a number of locating formations on
a second on the opposed faces and an opening through the body through the shaped locating
boss, the shaped locating boss received within the shaped opening in the mounting bracket such
that the object is attached relative to the bracket through the opening through the body with the
locating washer sandwiched between the mounting bracket and the object.
[0035]       As will be relatively clear from the above, either the locating washer of the present
invention is used in association with a mounting bracket or alternatively, a mounting bracket may
form a part of the mounting assembly of the present invention. The preferred mounting bracket
will typically have an opening in order to receive the shaped locating boss. In one embodiment,
the opening to receive the shaped locating boss may correspond in size and shape to the locating
boss allowing the locating boss to be fixed in one position relative to the mounting bracket. In an
alternative embodiment, the mounting bracket may include an elongate slot opening
corresponding substantially in the width to the width of the locating boss but having a length
which is greater than the length of the locating boss in order to allow the locating boss to move
along the length of the slot opening basically creating an elongate track in which the locating

boss can move.
[00361        Where the slot opening is provided in a bracket with the slot opening oriented
substantially vertically, this will allow a user to adjust the height of the locating washer as well as
allowing rotation of the object relative to the locating washer but allow the user to set both
position and orientation of the object with greater adjustability in a single clamping action.
[00371        Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[00381        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00391        Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0040]        Figure 1 is an isometric view of a first or obverse face of a locating washer according
to a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0041]        Figure 2 is an isometric view of a second or reverse face of a locating washer
according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0042]        Figure 3 is an isometric view of a light mounted relative to a mounting bracket using
a mounting assembly including a locating washer according to a preferred embodiment of the
present invention.
[00431        Figure 4 is a detailed view of the light housing illustrated in Figure 3 with the bracket
and locating washer removed.
[0044]        Figure 5 is an isometric view of a second or reverse face of a locating washer
according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0045]        Figure 6 is an isometric view of a first or obverse face of a locating washer according

to a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0046]       Figure 7 is an elevation view of the second or reverse face of a locating washer
according to a preferred embodiment.
[00471       Figure 8 is a view from the side of the locating washer illustrated in Figures 5 and 6.
[0048]       Figure 9 is an elevation view of the first or obverse face of a locating washer
according to a preferred embodiment.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0049]       According to a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, a locating
washer 10 and mounting assembly including same is provided.
[0050]       The locating washer illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 includes a shaped body 18 with a
pair of opposed faces, a shaped locating boss 11 on a first face illustrated in Figure 1, and a
number of locating formations 14 on a second face illustrated in Figure 2. An opening 12 is
provided through the body 18 through the shaped locating boss 11.
[0051]       As illustrated, the shaped body 18 is solid and manufactured from a robust material
such as an engineering plastic, rigid to resist deformation, particularly through the application of
the clamping force.
[0052]       The opening 12 is substantially centrally located through the shaped body 18. It is
preferred that the opening 12 is substantially circular although any shaped opening could be used.
[0053]       In the illustrated preferred embodiment, the body 18 of the washer 10 is substantially
annular with a central opening 12 as described above extending through the body 18 and the
body 18 has a substantially circular periphery, to define the annular shape.
[0054]       The first face illustrated in Figure 1 and second face, illustrated in Figure 2 are
substantially parallel to one another, one on either side of the shaped body 18. The second face is
substantially annular and the first face is also although the shaped locating boss 11 on the first
face disrupts the annular shape on that face.
[0055]       As will be described more clearly below, in use, the first or obverse face is typically
located towards an outside of a mounting assembly, away from the object and the second or
reverse face is typically located toward the object and preferably, in abutment with a portion of

the object to be mounted. As illustrated, the first or obverse face is smooth although in certain
circumstances or embodiments, one or more locating formations may be provided on the first or
obverse face. The shaped locating boss 11 is provided on the first or obverse face, protruding or
extending or standing proud of the obverse face.
[0056]       In the preferred embodiment, a single shaped locating boss 11 is provided as shown
in Figure 1. Although any shape can be used, a shape with a planar edges is more advantageous
with a rectangular shape most preferred due to the provision of a pair of spaced apart,
substantially parallel side edges 13 on the shaped locating boss 11 as these parallel side edges 13
can be used to locate the shaped locating boss 11 within an opening in a mounting bracket 20 or
assembly.
[00571       As illustrated in Figure 3, the locating boss 11 may be received in a corresponding
size and shaped opening in a mounting bracket 20 or assembly in which case, the shape of the
locating boss 11 corresponds substantially to the size and shape of the shaped opening in order to
fix the locating boss 11, and therefore fix the locating washer 10, in position relative to the
bracket 20 or assembly.
[0058]       However, the mounting bracket or assembly may be provided with an elongate slot
opening which is longer than the length of the locating boss 11 but corresponding substantially in
width to the locating boss 11 which will preferably provide an elongate slot track in the bracket
or assembly to allow the locating boss 1112 to be moved longitudinally over the length of the slot
opening. This means that the user can slide the locating boss 11 to any position in the slot
opening.
[0059]       As shown in Figure 2, a number of locating formations 14 are provided on the
reverse or second surface of the body 18 of the locating washer 10. The locating formations 14
provided on the reverse surface of the body 18 are radially extending formations used to orient
the object. The radially extending formations will radiate from the centre of the body 18
extending on the annular portion of the reverse surface between the substantially central opening
12 and the outer edge of the body 18.
[0060]       As illustrated, the locating formations 14 are provided in the form of a plurality of
alternating ridges and depressions. Any number of alternating ridges and depressions may be
provided and the number of ridges and depressions provided will determine the number of
positions or stops at which the object can be at least temporarily fixed. Alternating ridges and
depressions are provided completely about the annular portion of the reverse surface as

                                                    IU
illustrated, providing many positions and the object can be adjusted in a corresponding number
of increments. The ridges and/or depressions may increase in size from the inner end to the outer
end. A central annular area 19 is provided in the preferred embodiment about the central opening
12 on the second face side, that is the locating formations 14 do not extend all the way from the
central opening 12 to the outer edge of the body 18.
[0061]        Although the locating formations can have any shape, the embodiment illustrated in
Figure 2 has locating formations in the form of alternating ridges and depressions which are
typically arcuate or triangular in cross-section.
[0062]        In the illustrated embodiment, a set of corresponding locating formations 16 are
provided on or in association with the light housing. A shaped depression 15 is provided on into
the light housing with corresponding locating formations 16 to engage those provided on the
locating washer 10. The locating formations 16 provided on the light housing are provided about
an internally threaded opening 17 extending into the light housing to receive a correspondingly
threaded member forming part of a clamp mechanism.
[0063]        As mentioned above, the locating washer 10 is particularly well adapted to mounting
a light 21 or similar relative to a bracket as illustrated in Figure 3. In this configuration, a set of
corresponding locating formations 16 can be provided on either lateral side of the housing of the
light 21 in order to allow the mounting of the light 21 using the locating washer 10.
[0064]        The locating washer 10 is typically used in a mounting assembly for an object, one
example of which is illustrated in Figures 3 and 4 and in which the object is a spotlight 21 to be
mounted relative to a surface using a mounting bracket 20. The mounting bracket 20 includes a
spaced apart pair of bracket arms 22, each with a shaped opening 23 therein to seat the shaped
locating boss 11 of a locating washer 10. The number of locating formations 14 on the second
face of the locating washer 10 engage with the correspondingly shaped locating formations 16
provided on the housing of the light 21 as illustrated in Figure 4.
[0065]        Generally, the locating washer 10 is used interposed between the arms 23 of the
mounting bracket 20 and the light housing to be mounted relative to the mounting bracket 20,
allowing orientation of the light housing to be adjusted relative to the mounting bracket 20 and
then to be fixed at least temporarily.
[0066]        In this application of the invention, the shaped locating boss 11 maintains the
position of the locating washer 10 relative to the mounting bracket 20 and the number of locking

                                                   I I
formations 14 act to maintain the orientation of the light housing relative to the locating washer
10.
[00671       The locating washer 20 is clamped to the light housing and preferably between the
light housing arms 22 of the mounting bracket 20. An internally threaded opening 17 is provided,
on the light housing and a corresponding threaded member which is associated with a clamp
assembly is provided for insertion into the internally threaded opening 17 through the opening 23
in the arms 23 in the mounting bracket 20 and then tightened until a portion of the clamping
assembly abuts a portion of the mounting bracket 20 to hold the mounting bracket 20 and the
locating washer 10 between the clamp assembly and the light housing.
[0068]       A further embodiment is illustrated in Figures 10 and 11. In this embodiment, the
mounting bracket 20 is provided with an elongate slot opening 24 which is longer than the length
of the locating boss 11 but corresponding substantially in width to the locating boss 11 which
provide an elongate slot track in the bracket 20 to allow the locating boss 11 (and the washer 10)
to be moved longitudinally over the length of the slot opening 24. This allows the user to slide
the locating boss 11 to any position in the slot opening 24. The threaded member 25 can then be
used to fix the position of the washer and the associated light 21 at a particular chosen height as
well as utilise the locating formations on the washer 10 and the locating formations 16 on the
light 21 to fix the orientation of the light 21.
[00691       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[00701       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[00711       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of

its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately
interpreted by those skilled in the art.

CLAIMS
1. A locating washer including a shaped body having a pair of opposed faces, a shaped locating
   boss on a first of the opposed faces, a number of locating formations on a second on the
   opposed faces and an opening through the body through the shaped locating boss.
2. A locating washer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the shaped body is substantially annular
   with the first and second faces substantially parallel to one another with a central opening
   extending through the body and the shaped locating boss is rectangular extending from the
   obverse surface of the body.
3. A locating washer as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein a number of locating formations
   are provided on the second face of the body of the locating washer extending radially from a
   centre of the body, the locating formations including alternating ridges and depressions.
4. A mounting assembly for an object, the mounting assembly including a mounting bracket
   having at least one bracket arm with a shaped opening therein and a locating washer
   including a shaped body having a pair of opposed faces, a shaped locating boss on a first of
   the opposed faces, a number of locating formations on a second of the opposed faces and an
   opening through the body through the shaped locating boss, the shaped locating boss
   received within the shaped opening in the mounting bracket such that the object is attached
   relative to the bracket through the opening through the body with the locating washer
   sandwiched between the mounting bracket and the object.
5. A mounting assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein the opening to receive the shaped
   locating boss either corresponds in size and shape to the locating boss or is an elongate slot
   opening corresponding substantially in width to a width of the locating boss but having a
   length which is greater than a length of the locating boss in order to allow the locating boss
   to be moved along the length of the slot opening.

                                 <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
10
                                          16
                       21                            21
12
                            15
                                                             1/4
                        17
                  22
                20                        Figure 4
     Figure 3

                                                <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
     12                              14                             11
                                                                12
      14
                                      18
                                                   Figure 6
                                                                              2/4
                18
                                           18                  11
14         14              11
      19
                                13                                       13
                                          12
                Figure 8                           Figure 9

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                             3/4
10           16
                          21
 Figure 10

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       4/4
                         21
             20
Figure 11

