                                         Abstract
The invention provides for methods of treating lysosomal storage disorders and/or
reduction of non-cholesterol lipids, using cyclodextrin compounds, including in
combination with other therapeutics, including vitamin E.

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
                          CYCLODEXTRIN FOR THE TREATMENT OF
                                LYSOSOMAL STORAGE DISEASES
   FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
 5          This work was supported by the Federal Government. The Government has certain
   rights in this invention.
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/679,668, filed
10 on August 3, 2012, the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The invention provides for methods of treating lysosomal storage disorders and/or
   reduction of non-cholesterol lipids, using cyclodextrin compounds and cyclodextrin
15 compounds in combination with other agents.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Cyclodextrins (CD) are sugar molecules in a ring form. The alpha-CD (6 sugars),
   beta-CD (7 sugars) and gamma-CD ( 8 sugars) are commonly used cyclodextrins. The
20 hydroxypropyl-beta cyclodextrin (H-iP CD) has been approved for the pharmaceutical use as
   the drug excipient. Recent reports showed that beta-cyclodextrin including IIP3CD and beta
   methyl-cyclodextrin (M$C)) reduced cholesterol accumulation and neuronal cell loss in the
   mouse model of Niemann Pick Type C (NPC) disease. The life span of these NPC KO mice
   also increased 80 to 100 % after the CD treatment. The similar positive results were obtained
25 in the feline model of NPC disease. It was also reported that beta-CD increased exocytosis in
   primary NPC fibroblasts.
            It has been recently found that delta-tocopherol increased the cholesterol efflux from
   NPC cells and reduced cholesterol accumulation. Enhancement of lysosomal exocytosis has
   been indicated as a therapeutic strategy for development of new treatment for all lysosomal
30 storage diseases that are composed of 50 different diseases caused by the genetic mutations of
   genes for lysosomal proteins. The phenotypic changes in these diseases are accumulation of
   lipids, glycoprotein and/or other macromolecules in lysosomes and enlarged lysosone size in
   patient cells that may lead to cell malfunction and cell death in affected tissues.
                                                     1

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In one aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, comprising determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol
   lipid reduction or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule
 5 accumulation, and administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a
   cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, wherein the subject has been previously identified as being in need of
10 non-cholesterol lipid reduction or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and
   macromolecule accumulation, comprising administering to said subject in need thereof an
   effective amount of a cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester,
   solvate or hydrate thereof.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a lysosomal storage
15 disorder in a subject, comprising the step of administering to the subject an effective amount
   of a cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof, and an additional therapeutic agent.
            In certain aspects, the invention provides a method of reducing non-cholesterol lipids
   or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule accumulation in a subject,
20 the method comprising administering to the subject a cyclodextrin compound, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof; and detecting the amount
   of lipid reduction.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
25 thereof, and vitamin E, together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or excipient.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a subject suffering from
   a lysosomal storage disorder, comprising the use of the pharmaceutical composition as
   described above, in combination with another agent.
            In one embodiment of any of the above aspects, the step of administering the
30 cyclodextrin compound comprises administering the cyclodextrin compound to a subject such
   as a human in a dosage of between about 0.01 mg/Kg/day and 100 mg/Kg/day.
                                                    2

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
            In another embodiment of any of the above aspects, the cyclodextrin compound is
   administered to a subject such as a human in an amount from about 0.5 mg/Kg to 8 mg/Kg,
   either in a single dose or per day.
            In one embodiment of any of the above aspects, the cyclodextrin compound is
 5 administered to a subject such as a human in an amount of about 3 mg/Kg either in a single
   dose or per day. In a further embodiment of any one of the above aspects, the cyclodextrin
   compound is administered to a subject such as a human in an amount of about 1.0 mg/Kg,
   1.25 mg/Kg, 1.5 mg/Kg, 1.75 mg/Kg, 2.0 mg/Kg, 2.25 mg/Kg, 2.5 mg/Kg, 2.75 mg/Kg, 3.25
   mg/Kg, 3.5 mg/Kg, 3.75 mg/Kg, 4.0 mg/Kg, 4.25 mg/Kg, or 4.5 mg/Kg, either in a single
10 dose or per day.
            In another further embodiment of any of the above aspects, the cyclodextrin
   compound is administered to a subject such as a human in an amount from about 0.1 mg/Kg
   to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg,
   or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg, either in a single dose or per day.
15          In another further embodiment of any of the above aspects, the cyclodextrin
   compound is administered in a single dose.
             In one embodiment of any of the above aspects, the additional therapeutic agent
   (distinct from the cyclodextrin compound) is administered to a subject such as a human in an
   amount from about 0.05 to 1 mg/kg, either in a single dose or per day. In another
20 embodiment of any of the above aspects, the additional therapeutic agent (distinct from the
   cyclodextrin compound) is administered to a subject such as a human in an amount from
   about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.1
   mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg, or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg, either in a single dose or per day.
            In one embodiment of any of the above aspects, the additional therapeutic agent is
25 administered in a single dose.
            In another aspect, the invention features a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, comprising determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol
   lipid reduction or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule
   accumulation; administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a
30 cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof in an amount from about 0.05 mg/Kg to 1 mg/Kg either in a single dose or per day;
   and administering to the subject an additional therapeutic agent (such as vitamin E) distinct
                                                    3

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   from the cyclodextrin compound in an amount from about 0.05 mg/Kg to 1 mg/Kg either in a
   single dose or per day.
            In another aspect, the invention features a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, comprising determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol
 5 lipid reduction or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule
   accumulation; administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a
   cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof; and administering to the subject an additional therapeutic agent (such as vitamin E)
   distinct from the cyclodextrin compound.
10          In one embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is administered to a subject such as a
   human in an amount from about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1
   mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg, either in a single
   dose or per day.
            In another embodiment, the additional therapeutic agent (distinct from the
15 cyclodextrin compound) is administered to a subject such as a human in an amount from
   about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.1
   mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg, either in a single dose or per day.
            In still another further embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is administered to a
   subject such as a human in an amount of about 50 uM in combination with 10 uM of an
20 additional agent, either in a single dose or per day.
            In a further preferred embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is administered to a
   subject such as a human in an amount of about 50 uM in combination with 10 uM of delta
   tocopherol, either in a single dose or per day.
            In other aspects, the invention provides a kit comprising an effective amount of a
25 cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof, in unit dosage form, together with instructions for administering the compound to a
   subject suffering from a lysosomal storage disorder.
            Various advantages of the invention include the following: Treatment of all lysosomal
   storage diseases with cyclodextrins, including hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin, but in
30 certain aspects with the exception of Niemann Pick Type C disease; treatment of all
   lysosomal storage diseases with cyclodextrins, including hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin in
   combination of vitamin-E, for synergistic or additive therapeutic effect, for reduction of
   dosage of cyclodextrin needed that makes the cyclodextrin treatment more practically
                                                    4

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   feasible, and for less side effects by reducing dosages of both drugs; treatment of all
   lysosomal storage diseases with cyclodextrins (such as beta and gama forms) in combination
   with modified cyclodextrins for better efficacy and less side effects; treatment of all
   lysosomal storage diseases with cyclodextrins and modified vitamin-E analogs for the better
 5 efficacy and less side effects.
            Further, the invention provides the administration of the compounds of the invention
   for the treatment of all 40-50 lysosomal storage diseases based on the mechanism of action of
   cyclodextrin (increases lysosomal exocytosis).
            Other aspects of the invention are disclosed infra.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            Figure 1 is a set of graphs showing the reduction of total cholesterol (including
   cholesterol ester and free cholesterol) in Wolman fibroblasts treated with 6-tocopherol, a
   tocopherol, methyl-p-cyclodextrin, and combinations of 6-tocopherol and methyl-p
15 cyclodextrin, and a-tocopherol and methyl-p-cyclodextrin (MBCD).
            Figure 2 is a set of photographs showing Nile Red staining of Wolman fibroblasts
   treated with 6-tocopherol (D-T), a-tocopherol (a-T), methyl-p-cyclodextrin, and
   combinations of 6-tocopherol (D-T) and methyl-p-cyclodextrin (MBCD), and a-tocopherol
   and methyl-p-cyclodextrin.
20          Figure 3 is a set of graphs showing exocytosis levels in Wolman fibroblasts as
   measured by HEXB secretion.
            Figure 4 is a set of graphs showing lysosomal calcium efflux in wild-type fibroblasts
   and lysosomal storage disease fibroblasts in the presence and absence of 6-tocopherol, a
   tocopherol, methyl-p-cyclodextrin, and combinations of 6-tocopherol and methyl-p
25 cyclodextrin, and a-tocopherol and methyl-p-cyclodextrin.
            Figures 5A-5D are sets of photographs showing the effect of various forms of
   Cyclodextrins (a-CD, r-CD), 6-Tocopherol (D-T), and combinations in seven disease and
   wild-type fibroblast cell lines as measured using the Lysotracker assay. Highly branched
   cyclodextrin (HBCD), also known as Kleptose.
                                                    5

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
            Figure 6 is a set of photographs showing that cyclodextrin alleviates pathological
   ultrastructural changes in Wolman disease cells. methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD),
   tocopherol (6-toco).
            Figure 7 is a set of photographs showing the electron microscopic analysis of Farber
 5 fibroblasts treated with methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD), a-cyclodextrin (alpha CD), or y
   cyclodextrin (gamma-CD).
            Figure 8 is a set of photographs showing the electron microscopic analysis of Tay
   Sach, Fabry, and Farber fibroblasts treated with methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD).
            Figure 9 is a set of photographs showing the electron microscopic analysis of
10 Wolman, NPA, Batten, and MSIIIB fibroblasts treated with methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD).
            Figure 10 is a set of photographs showing the electron microscopic analysis of Farber
   fibroblasts treated with 6-Tocopherol (DT) and methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); 6
   Tocopherol (DT) and a-cyclodextrin (a-T); 6-Tocopherol (DT) and y-cyclodextrin (gamma
   CD); 6-Tocopherol (DT) and Kleptose (also known as HBCD); a-Tocopherol (a-T) and
15 methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); and a-Tocopherol (a-T) and Kleptose. KLEPTOSE or
   TRAPPSOL are the brand names of the chemical HBCD or HBPCD.
            Figure 11 (A and B) is a set of photographs that shows the effects of cyclodextrins
   and delta-tocopherol on reduction of cholesterol accumulation (Amplex-re cholesterol assay
   and filipin staining) and enlarged lysosomes (Lysotracker staining) in the NPC1 skin
20 fibroblasts. Methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD), HBPCD (Kleptose).
            Figure 12 (A and B) shows the effects of cyclodextrins and delta-tocopherol on
   reduction of cholesterol accumulation (Amplex-re cholesterol assay and filipin staining) and
   enlarged lysosomes (Lysotracker staining) in the NPC1 neuronal cells (NPC1-NSCs). (A)
   shows concentration- responses determined in Amplex-red cholesterol assay. (B) shows
25 filipin and lysotracker staining. Methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD), 6-Tocopherol (6-T)
            Figure 13 (A and B) is a set of photographs that shows a comparison of the effect of
   single use of cyclodextrins with that in a combination with delta-tocopherol on reduction of
   cholesterol accumulation (filipin staining) and enlarged lysosomes ((Lysotracker staining) in
                                                   6

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
   NPC1 neuronal cells (NPC1-NSCs). (A) HBPCD + 6-Tocopherol. (B) MBCD +
   Tocopherol.
            Figure 14 is a set of photographs showing lysotracker staining in 3123 treated with
   methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); HBPCD or 6-Tocopherol (DT).
 5          Figure 15 is a set of photographs showing lysotracker staining in ML1 11 treated with
   methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); HBPCD or 6-Tocopherol (DT).
            Figure 16 is a set of photographs showing lysotracker staining in MLIV treated with
   methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); HBPCD or 6-Tocopherol (DT).
            Figure 17 is a set of photographs showing lysotracker staining in MPS 1 treated with
10 methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); HBPCD or 6-Tocopherol (DT).
            Figure 18 is a set of photographs showing lysotracker staining in MPSV1 treated with
   methyl-p cyclodextrin (MBCD); HBPCD or 6-Tocopherol (DT).
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
15          Methods of treatment
            In one aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, comprising determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol
   lipid reduction or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and other macromolecule
   accumulation, and administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a
20 cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, wherein the subject has been previously identified as being in need of
   non-cholesterol lipid reduction or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and other
25 macromolecule accumulation, comprising administering to said subject in need thereof an
   effective amount of a cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester,
   solvate or hydrate thereof.
            In one embodiment, the lysosomal storage disorder is treated by reducing the non
   cholesterol lipid or non-cholesterol dominant lipid and other macromolecule accumulation in
30 the subject.
                                                    7

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
            In another embodiment, the non-cholesterol lipid is lipopigments,
   globotriaosylceramide, ceramide, sphingomyelin, heparan sulfate, partially degraded heparan
   sulfate, GM2 ganglioside, triglycerides, or cholesterol esters. The other macromolecules
   include proteins, glycoproteins (sugar containing proteins), mucopolysaccharides (long
 5 unbranched polysaccharides), and other cellular components.
            A subject may be identified as having a lysosomal storage disease by presenting to a
   clinician with symptoms of a lysosomal storage disease, including but not limited to an
   enlarged liver and spleen. Storage may begin during early embryonic development, and the
   clinical presentation for lysosomal storage diseases can vary from an early and severe
10 phenotype to late-onset mild disease. Said subject may be subject to a variety of diagnostic
   tests to determine if the subject has a lysosomal storage diease, and further to determine the
   presence of non-cholesterol lipids and macromolecules and non-cholesterol dominant lipids
   (i.e. non-cholesterol lipids that are present in an amount or percentage greater than that of
   cholesterol).
15          For example, ultrastructural examinations of skin biopsy specimens can be used to
   detect lysosomal accumulation of undegraded metabolites. A test of specific lysosomal
   enzyme activity can also be used to determine the presence of specific lysosomal enzymes.
   Moreover, correlation of both skin ultrastructure and assay for specific lysosomal enzymes in
   cultured dermal fibroblasts derived from the skin biopsy may also facilitate determination of
20 cholesterol and non-cholesterol lipids, and diagnostic accuracy. Filipin staining is a well
   known histochemical stain for cholesterol. Filipin is highly fluorescent and binds specifically
   to cholesterol. This method of detecting cholesterol in cell membranes is used clinically, for
   example in the study and diagnosis of Type C Niemann-Pick disease. Molecular genetic
   testing can be used, may be use to refine the enzymatic diagnosis. Other diagnostic methods
25 to determine the present of cholesterol and non-cholesterol lipids include antibody
   immunostaining or mass spectrometry.
            Lysosomal storage disorders include    - 40 to 50 inherited metabolic disorders caused
   by defects in lysosomal function. The incidence is about 1:5000 - 1:10,000 as a group of
   diseases. The term lysosomal refers to a recycling center in which cell membrane and other
30 materials break down to small molecules for reuse. It has been found that deficiency of a
   single enzyme or proteins required for the metabolism or trafficking of lipids, glycoproteins
   and other macromolecules results in lipid accumulation in lysosome of cells. Excessive
   amount of lipids or other materials in lysosome causes enlargement of liver and spleen.
                                                     8

    WO 2014/022841                                                             PCT/US2013/053527
   Symptoms of neuronal degeneration are common clinical manifestations in patients with
   neuronal involvements.
            Lysosomal storage disorders treated by the invention include, but are not limited to
   the following: Aspartylglucosaminuria, Wolman disease, Cystinosis, Danon disease, Fabry
 5 disease, Farber disease, Fucosidosis, Gaucher disease, GM1-Gangliosidosis types 1/11/111,
   GM2-Gangliosidosis, alpha-Mannosidosis types I / II, beta-Mannosidosis, Metachromatic
   leukodystrophy, Sialidosis types I / II, Mucolipidosis type IV, Scheie syndrome, Hunter
   syndrome, Sanfilippo syndrome A, Sanfilippo syndrome B, Sanfilippo syndrome C,
   Sanfilippo syndrome D, Galactosialidosis types I / II, Krabbe disease, Sandhoff disease,
10 Vogt-Spielmeyer disease, Hurler syndrome, Niemann-Pick disease, I-cell disease
   (mucolipidosis II), pseudo-Hurler polydystrophy, Morquio syndrome, Maroteaux-Lamy
   syndrome, Sly syndrome, Mucopolysaccharidosis type IX, Multiple sulfatase deficiency,
   Batten disease, Tay-Sachs disease, Pompe disease, Batten disease, Batten disease, late
   infantile, Northern Epilepsy, Pycnodysostosis, Schindler disease, Sialuria, and Salla disease.
15          In certain embodiments, the lysosomal storage disorder is Tay-Sachs disease,
   Sphingolipidoses, Gaucher disease, Mucolipidosis, Galactosialidosis, Salla disorder,
   Cystinosis, Danon disease, Fabry disease, Farber disease, Lipofuscinoses, Pompe disease,
   Gangliodisosis, ISSD, Krabbe disease, leukodystrophy, Hurler disease, Scheie disease,
   Hunter disease, San Filippo disease, Sandhoff disease, Schinder disease, Batten disorder, or
20 Wolman disease.
            In a further embodiment, the lysosomal storage disorder is Tay-Sachs disease, Fabry
   disease, Farber disease, San Filippo disease, Batten disorder, or Wolman disease.
            In certain embodiments, the cyclodextrin compound is of formula (I):
                                                            OR
                                     OR
                                          O      0          On
                               (R1)m                               (Ri)m
                                     O     rOR RO             .
                             (R1)m        OR             OR         (R1)m
                                  O'      OR           RO                 OR
                           RO             OR           RO           0
                                          OR             OR
                                              ORRO          0
                               (Ri)m    '                         (R1)m
                                                0        0;:
                                                               OR
                                       RO                       OR
                                                   9

   WO 2014/022841                                                                      PCT/US2013/053527
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof, wherein,
           each R is independently H, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl,
   or heteroaryl, each of which is optionally substituted; or -C(O)ORB, -OC(O)RB, -C(O)R B, or
              AB
   C(O)NRAR;
 5         each R 1 is independently H, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   halogen, hydroxy, amino, -CN, -CF 3, -N 3, -NO 2, -ORB, -SRB, -SORB, -SO 2 RB, -N(RB)S(0          2 )
   RB, -N(R B) S(0 2)NRAR        , -NRRB, -C(O)OR        , -OC(O)R    , -C(O)R  , -C(O)NRR B, or
   N(RB)C(O)RB; each of which is optionally substituted;
           each RA is independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
10 heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each of which is optionally substituted;
           each RB is independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
   heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each of which is optionally substituted;
           n is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10; and
           each m is independently 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
15         In certain embodiments, each R is independently H, optionally substituted alkyl,
            B              B           B               A B
   C(O)OR     , -OC(O)R      , -C(O)R    , or -C(O)NR R.
           In a further embodiment, each R is independently H, methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl,
   pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, or octyl; wherein each is straight chain or branched.
           In other embodiments, n is 1, 2, or 3.
20         In another embodiment, the cyclodextrin is 2-hydroxypropyl-3-cyclodextrin
   (2HP3CD), hydroxypropyl- -cyclodextrin (HP CD), methyl- -cyclodextrin (MPCD), a
   cyclodextrin, 0-cyclodextrin, or y-cyclodextrin, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester,
   solvate or hydrate thereof.
           In certain embodiments, the compound is:
                                                                           OR     OH
        HO  0            0                    RO     OOR                       OOOO                      OH
                         H O    OH          OR                              HO
       ~oaCD                                   O    P
                                                    fCD        RO-OYC
                  HO  OH   (6SN                 OR  (7S 8S      OR)OHRO                   _SgaS
25                                                                                   H
   Table 1. Types of beta-cyclodextrins
                                                         10

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
   Name                   # of         R                             #of R2               Name
                          sugars
   Heptakis(2,6-di-o-        7         a combination of R1= -H in     14                  M3CD
   methyl)-beta-                       position 3 and R2= -Me in
   cyclodextrin                        positions 2 and 6
   (2-Hydroxypropyl)-        7         a random combination of        1 to 10             Kleptose
   beta-cyclodextrin                   R1= -H and R2= -CH-           being 4 the most
                                       CHOH-CH3                      abundant species
   (2-Hydroxypropyl)-        7         a random combination of       4- 10                Trappsol
   beta-cyclodextrin                   R1= -H and R2= -CH-            being 7 the most
                                       CHOH-CH3                      abundant species
           In certain embodiments, the step of determining non-cholesterol lipid reduction or
   non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule accumulation in a subject comprises any
   one or more of the following.
 5
   Amplex-Red cholesterol assay - Total cholesterol in patient cells was measured by the
   Amplex-Red Cholesterol Assay Kit (Invitrogen). The unesterified cholesterol was determined
   using the same kit without the enzyme acid lipase. Esterified cholesterol was determined as
   the difference between the total and unesterified cholesterol values. The cells were seeded to
10 black, tissue culture-treated 96-well, 384-well or 1536-well plates at 4000, 1000, 300
   cells/well in 100, 20 or 5     1tlmedium by a Multidrop Combi dispenser (Thermo Scientific,
   Waltham, MA) and cultured for 24 hr. The assay plates were added with compound dilution
   in DMSO solution using a Pintool station (Klaypsys, San Diego, CA) and cultured for 3 days.
   The cells were washed twice manually for 96-well or 384-well plates or using a
15 centrifugation method in which the inverted plates were placed on a stack of paper towel and
   centrifuged at 800 rpm for 1 min followed by addition of 7      1t/well PBS (added gently with a
   45 degree angled liquid dispenser (Klaypsys). The cholesterol assay mixture from the kit was
   added at 100, 20 or 2.5   1il/well for 96-well, 384-well or 1536-well plates and incubated for 1
                                                     11

    WO 2014/022841                                                                  PCT/US2013/053527
   hr at 37'C. The resulted fluorescence intensity was measured with excitation of 560 (±10)
   and emission of 590 (±10) in a fluorescence plate reader (Tecan, Durham, NC).
   Nile-red staining - The cells were cultured and treated as described above in 96-well plates.
 5 On the experimental day, cells were washed two times with PBS and live-stained with luM
   Nile-red dye solution (prepared in cell culture medium) at 100               1t/well followed by an
   incubation at 37 'C for 10 min. After washed twice with PBS, the cells were fixed in 3.2%
   paraformaldehyde in PBS at 100         1il/well for 1 hr at RT. The nuclear staining was carried out
   by an addition of 100     1il/well 1 tg/ml Hoechst 33342 (Invitrogen) in PBS and incubation at
10 RT for 30 min. The plate was washed twice with PBS and the images were measured in
   Incell2000 imaging plate reader with a FITC filter set (Ex = 480 ± 20 nm and Ex = 525 ± 36
   nm) for the neutral lipids (cholesteryl esters and triglycerides) and a DAPI filter set for
   Hoechst nuclear staining.
15 LysoTracker dye staining - The assay was optimized to visualize the enlarged lysosomes by
   applying appropriate concentration of LysoTracker dye in which the control cells exhibited
   minimal staining while the disease cells showed significant staining. The cells were cultured
   and treated as described above in 96-well plates. On the experimental day, cells were live
   stained with 100    1il/well 50 nM LysoTracker-Red DND-99 dye (Invitrogen, # L-7528) in
20 medium at 37'C for 1 hr followed by plate washing twice with PBS. The plate was then fixed
   in 100 1il/well 3.2% formaldehyde for 1 hr and washed for two times with PBS. The nuclear
   staining were carried out by an addition of 100 1il/well 1 [tg/ml Hoechst 33342 (Invitrogen) in
   PBS and incubation at RT for 30 min. After washing twice with PBS, the plates were stored
   at 4'C until imaging analysis. DAPI filter set and TRITC filter set in the Incell2000 imaging
25 plate reader were used to visualize Hoechst nuclear staining and LysoTracker staining,
   respectively.
   Measurement of -hexosaminidase (HEXB) release - Fibroblasts were cultured in 24-well
   plates at 30,000 cells/well in 0.4 ml medium for one day at 370 C. After being washed twice
30 with the assay buffer (DMEM with 2mM D-mannose 6-phosphate sodium salt), the cells with
   0.4 ml/well the assay buffer were incubated at 37'C with 0.2 ml/well compound in assay
   buffer. At the 5, 10, 20, 30 and 40 min time points, 30 1tl       of assay buffer from each well in
   the 24-well plate were aliquoted into a 96-well black plate. The rest of assay buffer in the 24
                                                       12

    WO 2014/022841                                                                 PCT/US2013/053527
   well plate was discarded followed by addition of 0.6 ml 1% Triton-X100 in dH 20 to lyse the
   cells. After incubation at 37'C for 30 min, 6       1il/well cell lysate were added to the 96-well
   plate with 24      1tlassay buffer followed by 90          1il/well 2.25 mM HEXB substrate, 4
   Methylumbelliferyl N-acetyl-p-D-glucosaminide (Sigma-Aldrich, # M2133), in a 25 mM
 5 citric acid buffer at pH 4.5. The 96-well plate was then measured in the Tecan fluorescence
   plate reader (Ex = 365 ± 20 nm and Em = 460 ± 20 nm) after 1 hr incubation at 37'C and
   addition of 100    1t/well stop solution (1 M glycine and 1 M NaOH at pH 10.5).
   Intracellularand lysosomal Ca2+ measurements - Intracellular cytosolic Ca2+ concentration
10 was measured fluorescently using a Fluo-8 dye kit (ATT Bioquest, Sunnyvale, CA) as
   described previously. Briefly, fibroblasts were cultured at 2500 cell/well in 20        medium in
                                                                                         1il
   black, clear bottom 384-well plates for 24 hr at 37'C. The calcium dye mixture was added at
   20l/well and incubated at 37'C for 30 min following by at RT for 30 min. The plates were
   then placed into a fluorescence kinetic plate reader ( iCell, Hamamatsu, Hamamatsu City,
15 Japan). The basal fluorescence intensity was recorded 10 times at 1Hz for 10 seconds and the
   compound was then added at 20 1il/well inside the instrument followed by additional reading
   at 1Hz for 5 min. The results were normalized to the average basal fluorescence intensity in
   ratio and the peak response (Max.) was used for the result calculation. The lysosomal Ca2+
   induced by Gly-Phe p-naphthylamide (GPN) was measured similarly as that for cytosolic
20 Ca2 except 200 2++ nM GPN was added instead of S-T or a-T after the measurement of basal
   fluorescence intensity that released lysosomal Ca2 +
   Electron Microscopy - Fibroblast cells were seeded in 6-well plates at 150,000 cells/well in 5
   ml medium and cultured for 1 day in the presence or absence of compounds. Cells were fixed
25 in 2% glutaraldehyde , 0.1 M cacodylate buffer, pH 7.2 for 1 h at room temperature and then
   stored at 4 'C until TEM analysis was performed. The cells were post fixed in 1% osmium
   tetroxide in the same buffer for 1 hour and en bloc stained with 0.5% uranyl acetate in 0.1 M
   acetate buffer, pH 4.2. The cells were then dehydrated in graded ethanol solutions (35%,
   50%, 70%, 95% and 100%) and infiltrated overnight in epoxy resin (Poly/Bed 812,
30 Polysciences). After adding fresh pure resin the cell plates were cured for 72 h in 55 'C. After
   removing the polystyrene plates, suitable areas for thin sectioning were selected, cut out with
   a jewelry saw and glued onto empty resin stubs. About 70 nm thin sections were cut on an
   ultramicrotome (Leica EM UC6) and mounted on naked copper grids. The thin sections were
                                                    13

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   double stained (uranyl acetate and lead citrate), examined in a Hitachi H-7650 transmission
   electron microscope, and images were taken using an AMT CCD camera.
            In various embodiments, the invention provides a method as described above further
   comprising the step of administering an additional therapeutic agent.
 5          In certain embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is a vitamin.
            In a further embodiment, the additional therapeutic agent is vitamin E.
            In other embodiments, the invention provides a method as described above wherein
   the step of administering the cyclodextrin comprises administering the compound orally,
   topically, parentally, intravenously or intramuscularly.
10          In certain embodiments, the invention provides a method comprising the step of
   administering an effective amount of the compound and a pharmaceutically suitable
   excipient.
            In certain embodiments, the invention provides a method as described above wherein
   the subject is a human.
15          In various embodiments, the step of administering the cyclodextrin comprises
   administering the compound to a subject such as a human in a dosage of between about 0.01
   jag/kg/day and 100 mg/kg/day, either in a single dose or per day.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a lysosomal storage
   disorder in a subject, comprising the step of administering to the subject an effective amount
20 of a cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof, and an additional therapeutic agent.
            In certain embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is a vitamin.
            In a further embodiment, the additional therapeutic agent is vitamin E.
            In certain aspects, the invention provides a method of reducing non-cholesterol lipids
25 in a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject a cyclodextrin compound, or
   a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof; and detecting the amount
   of lipid reduction.
            In one embodiment, the subject is identified as being in need of lipid reduction.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
30 therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention (any of the formulae
   presented herein), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, solvate or hydrate thereof thereof, in
   combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
                                                    14

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
            In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is in combination with a vitamin.
   In a further embodiment, the vitamin is vitamin E.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
 5 thereof, and vitamin E, together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or excipient.
            In one embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is of formula (I), or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
            In another embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is 2-hydroxypropyl-p
   cyclodextrin (2HP3CD), hydroxypropyl-3-cyclodextrin (HP3CD), methyl--cyclodextrin
10 (MPCD), a-cyclodextrin, 0-cyclodextrin, or y-cyclodextrin, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a subject suffering from
   a lysosomal storage disorder, comprising the use of the pharmaceutical composition as
   described above, in combination with another agent.
15          In other aspects, the invention provides a kit comprising an effective amount of a
   cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate
   thereof, in unit dosage form, together with instructions for administering the compound to a
   subject suffering from a lysosomal storage disorder.
            In one embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is of formula (I), or a
20 pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
            In another embodiment, the cyclodextrin compound is 2-hydroxypropyl-p
   cyclodextrin (2HP3CD), hydroxypropyl-3-cyclodextrin (HP3CD), methyl--cyclodextrin
   (MPCD), a-cyclodextrin, 0-cyclodextrin, or y-cyclodextrin, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
25          In another embodiment, the kit further comprises vitamin E.
             In another embodiment, the invention provides a method as described above further
   comprising the step of synthesizing or obtaining the cyclodextrin compounds. Yet another
   embodiment of the present invention is a process of making any of the compounds delineated
   herein employing any of the synthetic means delineated herein, or using methods known to
30 one of ordinary skill in the art.
            In certain embodiments, cyclodextrins including ax-, 0- and y-cyclodextrins increased
   intracellular Ca2+ and lysosomal exocytosis in both wild type and cells with LSDs (Wolman
   disease).
                                                   15

    WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
            In various embodiments, cyclodextrins reduced enlarged lysosomes in six cell lines
   with LSDs.
            In another embodiment, cyclodextrins reduced ultrastructural pathologic changes in
   cells with Wolman diseases and other cells.
 5          In certain embodiments, cyclodextrins in combination with tocopherol
   synergistically/additively reduced cholesterol accumulation in cells of NPC and Wolman
   diseases.
            An inhibitory amount or dose of the compounds of the present invention may range
   from about 0.1 mg/kg to about 500 mg/kg, alternatively from about 1 to about 50 mg/kg.
10 Inhibitory amounts or doses will also vary depending on route of administration, as well as
   the possibility of co-usage with other agents.
            The term "inhibitory amount" of a compound of the present invention means a
   sufficient amount to decrease the disorder in a biological sample or a subject. It is
   understood that when said inhibitory amount of a compound of the present invention is
15 administered to a subject it will be at a reasonable benefit/risk ratio applicable to any medical
   treatment as determined by a physician. The term "biological sample(s)," as used herein,
   means a substance of biological origin, which may be intended for administration to a
   subject. Examples of biological samples include, but are not limited to, blood and
   components thereof such as plasma, platelets, subpopulations of blood cells and the like;
20 organs such as kidney, liver, heart, lung, and the like; sperm and ova; bone marrow and
   components thereof; or stem cells.
            As referred to herein, the phrase "in combination with", or "or conjunction with"
   when referring to administration of a cyclodextrin compound and an additional therapeutic
   agent (distinct from the cyclodextrin compound) such as a vitamin E compound is intended to
25 refer to all forms of administration that provide the cyclodextrin and additional therapeutic
   compounds together, e.g. where the two cmpounds are administered concurrently (e.g. in a
   single unitary formulation) or sequentially in any order. For instance, in a suitable aspect, for
   sequential administration, the cyclodextrin compound and the additional therapeutic agent
   may be formulated separately and administered within about 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30,
30 40, 50 or 60 minutes or more of each other. For sequential administration, preferably the
   cyclodextrin compound and the additional therapeutic agent may be formulated separately
   and administered within about 30, 20, 10 or 5 minutes or less of each other.
                                                    16

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
           Upon improvement of a subject's condition, a maintenance dose of a compound,
   composition or combination of this invention may be administered, if necessary.
   Subsequently, the dosage or frequency of administration, or both, may be reduced, as a
   function of the symptoms, to a level at which the improved condition is retained when the
 5 symptoms have been alleviated to the desired level, treatment should cease. The subject may,
   however, require intermittent treatment on a long-term basis upon any recurrence of disease
   symptoms.
           It will be understood, however, that the total daily usage of the compounds and
   compositions of the present invention will be decided by the attending physician within the
10 scope of sound medical judgment. The specific inhibitory dose for any particular patient will
   depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated and the severity of the
   disorder; the activity of the specific compound employed; the specific composition
   employed; the age, body weight, general health, sex and diet of the patient; the time of
   administration, route of administration, and rate of excretion of the specific compound
15 employed; the duration of the treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental with the
   specific compound employed; and like factors well known in the medical arts.
           The total daily inhibitory dose of the compounds of this invention administered to a
   subject in single or in divided doses can be in amounts, for example, from 0.01 to 50 mg/kg
   body weight or more usually from 0.1 to 25 mg/kg body weight. Single dose compositions
20 may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In one
   embodiment, treatment regimens according to the present invention comprise administration
   to a patient in need of such treatment from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of the
   compound(s) of this invention per day in single or multiple doses. In another embodiment,
   the treatment regimen comprises administration to a patient in need of such treatment from
25 about 25 mg to about 6000 mg of a compound(s) of this invention per day in single or
   multiple doses. For instance a compound of the present invention can be administered to a
   patient twice a day with a total daily dose of 4000, 4200, 4400, 4600, 4800 or 5000 mg.
           A preferred single use of cyclodextrin for mammals including humans is from 0.1
   mg/Kg to 8 mg/Kg, more preferably 0.5 mg/kG or 1.0 mg/Kg to 2 mg/Kg, 3 mg/Kg, 4
30 mg/Kg, 5 mg/Kg, 6 mg/Kg, 7 mg/Kg or 84 mg/Kg. One specific preferred single use of
   cyclodextrin for mammals including humans is 3 mg/Kg.
            In a combination therapy of a cyclodextrin compound administered together or
   otherwise in conjuction with a vitamin E compound such as delta-tocopherol, a preferred
                                                   17

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
    single dose for a mammal including a human may be from 0.05 to 1 mg/kg for each of the
   cyclodextrin compound and vitamin E compound (such as delta-tocopherol), more preferably
   0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.6 mg/Kg or 0.7 mg/Kg for each of a cyclodextrin compound and
   vitamin E compound such as delta-tocopherol, still more preferably 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg
 5 or 0.4 mg/Kg for each of a cyclodextrin compound and vitamin E compound such as delta
   tocopherol.
              In embodiments of the present invention, treatment of a lysosomal storage disorder
   with a combination of a cyclodextrin compound and vitamin E compound (such as delta
   tocopherol) can allow for use of a lower dosage of the cyclodextrin compound to achieve a
10 therapeutic effect than when the cyclodextrin compound is used alone. In certain aspects,
   the amount of the cyclodextrin compound administered is at least 5%, at least 10%, at least
    15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 35%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least
    55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, or at
   least 90%, less than an amount of the cyclodextrin compound necessary to achieve a
15 therapeutic effect if administered without the vitamin E compound.
            Biological Data
            Figure 1. (amplex red) Skin fibroblasts derived from NPC1 patients demonstrate
   profound and reproducible cholesterol accumulation in late endosomes and lysosomes and,
   therefore, provide a robust cellular model of NPC1 disease. Using a phenotypic screen with a
20 biochemical assay (Amplex Red) to measure unesterified cholesterol; Delta-Tocopherol ("6
   T"; or "Delta-T") 6-T was identified as a lead compound that dramatically reduces cellular
   cholesterol accumulation in a concentration dependent manner. We further evaluated effect
   of cyclodextrins alone and in combination with delta Tocopherol in other lysosomal storage
   disorders and we found that alpha-CD, beta-CD, and gamma-CD can reduce cholesterol
25  accumulation, and MBCD was most potent.
            Figure 2. (Nile Red) Cells were cultured in the presence of delta tocopherol, alpha
   tocopherol and MBCD plus in combination for 3 days and then stained for neutral lipid with
   Nile red. Delta Tocopherol and MBCD treatment reduces accumulation of neutral lipids and
   it is more pronounced when used in combination. Alpha Tocopherol was not as potent.
30          Figure 3. ( Hex assay) Delta-T stimulates lysosomal exocytosis in Wolman
   fibroblasts. 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin has been reported to promote a calcium
   dependent lysosomal exocytosis, which offers a potential mechanism for its cholesterol
   reducing effect in LSD fibroblast. We measured lysosomal exocytosis in delta-T-treated
                                                   18

    WO 2014/022841                                                                 PCT/US2013/053527
   Wolman fibroblasts by determining the activity of beta-hexosaminidase (HEXB), a lysosomal
   enzyme, in the extracellular medium. We found that HEXB activity increased in culture
   medium after 40 uM 6-Tocopherol treatment for 24 hours compared with the vehicle treated
   cells. These results demonstrate that the pharmacological effect of delta-T may be mediated
 5 by the increase of cytosolic Ca 2+ and enhancement of lysosomal exocytosis.
            Figure 4. (calcium assay) Delta-T increases intracellular Ca2+ concentration and
   ameliorates lysosomal calcium deficiency in NPC 1 cells - Increase in the concentration of
                    2+
   intracellular Ca , an important second messenger, triggers a variety of cellular responses
   including lysosomal exocytosis. In NPC1 fibroblasts there is a dysregulation of calcium
10 homeostasis, as evidenced by lysosomal Ca 2+ deficiency. Treatments that compensate for loss
   of lysosomal Ca2+ (e.g., curcumin) have been reported to reduce cholesterol storage in NPC1
   cells. To explore whether delta-T may similarly exert its effects through changes in
                    2++
   intracellular Ca     , we measured cytosolic calcium levels in both NPC1 and Wolman cells
   following the treatment with 6-T. We found that 6-T stimulated a transient increase of
15 cytosolic Ca2+ in both NPC1 and Wolman fibroblasts, as well as in control fibroblasts. In
   addition, the intracellular Ca2+ response to delta-T was independent of extracellular Ca2+
   concentration, indicating that Ca2+ was released from intracellular storage sites such as the
   ER in response to 6-T. We further studied the effect of delta-T on lysosomal Ca2+ released by
   Gly-Phe   p-naphthylamide (GPN) in NPC1 fibroblasts. Consistent with an earlier report,
20 lysosomal Ca2+ was reduced in NPC1 cells compared with that in control cells. Treatment of
                                                                                               2+
   NPC1 fibroblasts with 40 uM delta-T for 24 hours significantly increased lysosomal Ca
           Figure 5. Based on the data for both NPC1 and Wolman cells, we hypothesized that
   the pharmacological effect of delta-T on the intracellular Ca2+ and lysosomal exocytosis is a
   general mechanism for elimination of lysosomal storage. To test this hypothesis we
25 measured the ability of delta-T to decrease acidic/lysosomal compartment size as determined
   by LysoTracker staining in fibroblasts derived from patients with six other diseases.
   Lysosomal storage occurs in these fibroblasts consists of ceroid/lipofuscin in Batten (CLN2),
   globotriaosylceramide in Fabry, ceramide in Farber, sphingomyelin in NPA, partially
   degraded heparan sulfate in Sanfilippo type B, and GM2 ganglioside in Tay-Sachs (Table
30 S1). Whereas untreated fibroblasts showed increased LysoTracker staining, indicating the
   enlarged lysosomes, treatment with 40 uM delta-T significantly reduced the LysoTracker
   staining in all six fibroblast cell lines studied. Thus, the amelioration of lysosomal pathology
                                                      19

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
   by delta-T, initially demonstrated in NPC 1 and Wolman cells, can be generalized to other
   lysosomal storage diseases.
            The mixed lipid storage phenotype results in a marked enlargement of lysosomes in
   the NPC 1 and Wolman fibroblasts. Therefore, we next determined whether the enlarged
 5 lysosomes in these cells could be reduced by the treatment with 6-T. LysoTracker, a probe
   which stains the intracellular acidic compartment, has been used to visualize the enlarged
   endolysosomal compartment in NPC 1 cells. We found increased LysoTracker staining in
   both NPC 1 and Wolman fibroblasts, as expected. Treatment with either 40 uM delta-T or
   300uM MBCD significantly reduced LysoTracker staining in both types of fibroblasts.
10          Figure 6. Both NPC1 and Wolman fibroblasts have a distinct ultrastructural
   phenotype that is evident by electron microscopy. The reduction of acidic cellular
   compartments by delta-T treatment is consistent with decreased intracellular storage that was
   confirmed by alleviation of the ultrastructural pathology.
            The electron microscopic images exhibited enlarged lysosomes full of lamellated
15 membranes and dense osmiophilic material in NPC 1 cells and lipid droplet-like and cleft-like
   lysosomes in Wolman cells. Treatment with 40 uM delta-T significantly reduced the
   characteristic storage materials in lysosomes of both cell types. Together, these findings
   demonstrate that the delta-T-mediated cholesterol reduction is associated with alleviation of
   the disease phenotypes in NPC1 and Wolman cells.
20          We have found that alpha-CD, beta-CD, and gamma-CD can reduce cholesterol
   accumulation in NPC cells. We also found that these CDs increased intracellular Ca2+ and
   enhanced exocytosis. The ranking order of cholesterol reduction effect is MBCD>alpha
   CD>gamma-CD. In addition we found that the CD treatment reduced the pathological
   changes in the ultrastructure of NPC cells using the electron microscopy analysis. We also
25 found that CDs reduced enlarged lysosomes in the primary fibroblasts of Wolman disease
   another lysosomal storage disease that exhibits cholesterol ester accumulation due to the
   malfunction of acid lipase in lysosome. The electron microscopy data indicated that the CD
   effect is more significant than that of delta-tocopherol in the Wolman cells.
            We also found the synergy between CD and delta-tocopherol on the NPC cells and
30 other 6 lysosomal storage disease cells including Wolman, Niemann Pick Type A, Farber,
   Tay-Sachs, MSIIB and CLN2 (Batten) diseases. The fluorescence tagged CD study indicated
   that CD enters cell and comes out of cell quickly, indicating via exocytosis. We also have the
   data demonstrate that alpha-CD, beta-CD and gamma-CD enhance exocytosis.
                                                    20

    WO 2014/022841                                                                 PCT/US2013/053527
            Definitions
            Listed below are definitions of various terms used to describe this invention. These
   definitions apply to the terms as they are used throughout this specification and claims, unless
 5 otherwise limited in specific instances, either individually or as part of a larger group. The
   number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent can be indicated by the prefix "Cx-Cy,"
   where x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent.
   Likewise, a Cx chain means a hydrocarbyl chain containing x carbon atoms.
            The prefix "halo" indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is
10 substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example, "C1
   C 6haloalkyl" means a C 1 -C 6 alkyl substituent wherein at least one hydrogen radical is
   replaced with a halogen radical.
            If a linking element in a depicted structure is "absent" or "a bond", then the left
   element in the depicted structure is directly linked to the right element in the depicted
15 structure. For example, if a chemical structure is depicted as X-(L),-Y wherein L is absent
   or n is 0, then the chemical structure is X-Y.
            The term "alkyl" as used herein, refers to a saturated, straight- or branched-chain
   hydrocarbon radical. For example, "C1-C8 alkyl" contains from one to eight carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkyl radicals include, but are not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n
20 butyl, tert-butyl, neopentyl, n-hexyl, heptyl, octyl radicals and the like.
            The term "alkenyl" as used herein, denotes a straight- or branched-chain hydrocarbon
   radical containing one or more double bonds. For example, "C2 -C8 alkenyl" contains from
   two to eight carbon atoms. Alkenyl groups include, but are not limited to, for example,
   ethenyl, propenyl, butenyl, 1-methyl-2-buten-1-yl, heptenyl, octenyl and the like.
25          The term "alkynyl" as used herein, denotes a straight- or branched-chain hydrocarbon
   radical containing one or more triple bonds. For example, "C2 -C8 alkynyl" contains from
   from two to eight carbon atoms. Representative alkynyl groups include, but are not limited to,
   for example, ethynyl, 1-propynyl, 1-butynyl, heptynyl, octynyl and the like.
            The term "cycloalkyl" denotes a monovalent group derived from a monocyclic or
30 polycyclic saturated carbocyclic ring compound. Examples of cycloalkyl include, but not
   limited to, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, bicyclo [2.2.1] heptyl, and
   bicyclo [2.2.2] octyl and the like. The terms "carbocycle" or "carbocyclic" or "carbocyclyl"
   refer to a saturated (e.g., "cycloalkyl"), partially saturated (e.g., "cycloalkenyl" or
                                                     21

    WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
   "cycloalkynyl") or completely unsaturated (e.g., "aryl") ring system containing zero
   heteroatom ring atom. A carbocyclyl may be, without limitation, a single ring, or two or
   more fused rings, or bridged or spiro rings. A carbocyclyl may contain, for example from 3
   to 10 ring members (i.e., C 3-C1ocarbocyclyl, such as C 3 -C1ocycloalkyl). A substituted
 5 carbocyclyl may have either cis or trans geometry. Representative examples of carbocyclyl
   groups include, but are not limited to, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl,
   cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclopentadienyl, cyclohexadienyl, adamantyl,
   decahydro-naphthalenyl, octahydro-indenyl, cyclohexenyl, phenyl, naphthyl, fluorenyl,
   indanyl, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-naphthyl, indenyl, isoindenyl, bicyclodecanyl, anthracenyl,
10 phenanthrene, benzonaphthenyl (also known as "phenalenyl"), decalinyl, and norpinanyl and
   the like. A carbocyclyl group can be attached to the parent molecular moiety through any
   substitutable carbon atom of the group.
            The term "aryl" refers to an aromatic carbocyclyl containing from 6 to 14 carbon ring
   atoms. Non-limiting examples of aryls include phenyl, naphthalenyl, anthracenyl, and
15 indenyl and the like. An aryl group can be connected to the parent molecular moiety through
   any substitutable carbon atom of the group.
            The term "heteroaryl" means an aromatic heterocyclyl typically containing from 5 to
   18 ring atoms, wherein at least one ring atom is a heteroatom. A heteroaryl may be a single
   ring, or two or more fused rings. Non-limiting examples of five-membered heteroaryls
20 include imidazolyl; furanyl; thiophenyl (or thienyl or thiofuranyl); pyrazolyl; oxazolyl;
   isoxazolyl; thiazolyl; 1,2,3-, 1,2,4-, 1,2,5-, and 1,3,4-oxadiazolyl; and isothiazolyl. Non
   limiting examples of six-membered heteroaryls include pyridinyl; pyrazinyl; pyrimidinyl;
   pyridazinyl; and 1,3,5-, 1,2,4-, and 1,2,3-triazinyl. Non-limiting examples of 6/5-membered
   fused ring heteroaryls include benzothiofuranyl, isobenzothiofuranyl, benzisoxazolyl,
25 benzoxazolyl, purinyl, and anthranilyl. Non-limiting examples of 6/6-membered fused ring
   heteroaryls include quinolinyl; isoquinolinyl; and benzoxazinyl (including cinnolinyl and
   quinazolinyl).
            The term "heterocycloalkyl" refers to a non-aromatic 3-, 4-, 5-, 6- or 7-membered ring
   or a bi- or tri-cyclic group fused system, where at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom,
30 and where (i) each 5-membered ring has 0 to 1 double bonds and each 6-membered ring has 0
   to 2 double bonds, (ii) the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized, (iii)
   the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized, and (iv) any of the above rings may
   be fused to a benzene ring. Representative heterocycloalkyl groups include, but are not
                                                    22

    WO 2014/022841                                                                  PCT/US2013/053527
   limited to, [1,3]dioxolane, pyrrolidinyl, pyrazolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, imidazolinyl,
   imidazolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl, morpholinyl,
   thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, and tetrahydrofuryl and the like.
           The terms "heterocyclic" or "heterocycle" or "heterocyclyl" refer to a saturated (e.g.,
 5 "heterocycloalkyl"), partially unsaturated (e.g., "heterocycloalkenyl" or
   "heterocycloalkynyl") or completely unsaturated (e.g., "heteroaryl") ring system, where at
   least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom (i.e., nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur), with the
   remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon,
   nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. A heterocyclyl group can be linked to the parent molecular
10 moiety via any substitutable carbon or nitrogen atom in the group, provided that a stable
   molecule results. A heterocyclyl may be, without limitation, a single ring. Non-limiting
   examples of single-ring heterocyclyls include furanyl, dihydrofuranyl, pyrrolyl, isopyrrolyl,
   pyrrolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolyl, isoimidazolyl, imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolyl,
   pyrazolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, dithiolyl, oxathiolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
15 thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiazolinyl, isothiazolinyl, thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, thiodiazolyl,
   oxathiazolyl, oxadiazoly, pyranyl, dihydropyranyl, pyridinyl, piperidinyl, pyridazinyl,
   pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, piperazinyl, triazinyl, isoxazinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
   oxathiazinyl, oxadiazinyl, morpholinyl, azepinyl, oxepinyl, thiepinyl, or diazepinyl. A
   heterocyclyl may also include, without limitation, two or more rings fused together, such as,
20 for example, naphthyridinyl, thiazolpyrimidinyl, thienopyrimidinyl, pyrimidopyrimidinyl, or
   pyridopyrimidinyl. A heterocyclyl may comprise one or more sulfur atoms as ring members;
   and in some cases, the sulfur atom(s) is oxidized to SO or S02. The nitrogen heteroatom(s)
   in a heterocyclyl may or may not be quaternized, and may or may not be oxidized to N-oxide.
   In addition, the nitrogen heteroatom(s) may or may not be N-protected.
25         The terms "optionally substituted", "optionally substituted alkyl," "optionally
   substituted "optionally substituted alkenyl," "optionally substituted alkynyl", "optionally
   substituted carbocyclic," "optionally substituted aryl", " optionally substituted heteroaryl,"
   "optionally substituted heterocyclic," and any other optionally substituted group as used
   herein, refer to groups that are substituted or unsubstituted by independent replacement of
30 one, two, or three or more of the hydrogen atoms thereon with typical substituents including,
   but not limited to:
           -alkyl, -alkenyl, -alkynyl, -aryl, -arylalkyl, -heteroaryl, -heteroarylalkyl,
   heterocycloalkyl, -cycloalkyl, -carbocyclic, -heterocyclic,
                                                     23

   WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
           -F, -Cl, -Br, -I,
           -OH, protected hydroxy, alkoxy, oxo, thiooxo,
           -NO 2 , -CN, CF 3, N 3 ,
           -NH 2 , protected amino, -NH alkyl, -NH alkenyl, -NH alkynyl, -NH cycloalkyl, -NH
 5 aryl, -NH -heteroaryl, -NH -heterocyclic, -dialkylamino, -diarylamino, -diheteroarylamino,
           -0- alkyl, -0- alkenyl, -0- alkynyl, -0- cycloalkyl, -0-aryl, -0-heteroaryl, -0
   heterocyclic,
           -C(O)- alkyl, -C(O)- alkenyl, -C(O)- alkynyl, -C(O)- cycloalkyl, -C(O)-aryl, -C(O)
   heteroaryl, -C(O)-heterocycloalkyl,
10         -CONH 2, -CONH- alkyl, -CONH- alkenyl, -CONH- alkynyl, -CONH- cycloalkyl,
   CONH-aryl, -CONH-heteroaryl, -CONH-heterocycloalkyl,
           -OC0 2 - alkyl, -OC0 2 - alkenyl, -OC0 2 - alkynyl, -OC0 2 - cycloalkyl, -OC0 2-aryl,
   OC0 2 -heteroaryl, -OC0 2-heterocycloalkyl, -OCONH 2 , -OCONH- alkyl, -OCONH- alkenyl,
   OCONH- alkynyl, -OCONH- cycloalkyl, -OCONH- aryl, -OCONH- heteroaryl, -OCONH
15 heterocycloalkyl,
           -NHC(O)- alkyl, -NHC(O)- alkenyl, -NHC(O)- alkynyl, -NHC(O)- cycloalkyl,
   NHC(O)-aryl, -NHC(O)-heteroaryl, -NHC(O)-heterocycloalkyl, -NHCO 2- alkyl, -NHCO 2
   alkenyl, -NHCO 2- alkynyl, -NHCO 2 -cycloalkyl, -NHCO 2- aryl, -NHCO 2- heteroaryl,
   NHCO 2- heterocycloalkyl, -NHC(O)NH 2, -NHC(O)NH- alkyl, -NHC(O)NH- alkenyl,
20 NHC(O)NH- alkenyl, -NHC(O)NH- cycloalkyl, -NHC(O)NH-aryl, -NHC(O)NH-heteroaryl,
   -NHC(O)NH-heterocycloalkyl, NHC(S)NH 2, -NHC(S)NH- alkyl, -NHC(S)NH- alkenyl,
   NHC(S)NH- alkynyl, -NHC(S)NH- cycloalkyl, -NHC(S)NH-aryl, -NHC(S)NH-heteroaryl,
   NHC(S)NH-heterocycloalkyl, -NHC(NH)NH 2, -NHC(NH)NH- alkyl, -NHC(NH)NH-
   alkenyl, -NHC(NH)NH- alkenyl, -NHC(NH)NH- cycloalkyl, -NHC(NH)NH-aryl,
25 NHC(NH)NH-heteroaryl, -NHC(NH)NH-heterocycloalkyl, -NHC(NH)- alkyl, -NHC(NH)
   alkenyl, -NHC(NH)- alkenyl, -NHC(NH)- cycloalkyl, -NHC(NH)-aryl, -NHC(NH)
   heteroaryl, -NHC(NH)-heterocycloalkyl,
           -C(NH)NH- alkyl, -C(NH)NH- alkenyl, -C(NH)NH- alkynyl, -C(NH)NH- cycloalkyl,
   -C(NH)NH-aryl, -C(NH)NH-heteroaryl, -C(NH)NH-heterocycloalkyl,
30         -S(O)- alkyl, - S(O)- alkenyl, - S(O)- alkynyl, - S(O)- cycloalkyl, - S(O)-aryl, - S(0)
   heteroaryl, - S(O)-heterocycloalkyl -SO 2 NH 2 , -SO 2 NH- alkyl, -SO 2 NH- alkenyl, -SO 2 NH
   alkynyl, -SO 2 NH- cycloalkyl, -SO 2 NH- aryl, -SO 2NH- heteroaryl, -SO 2 NH- heterocycloalkyl,
                                                   24

    WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
            -NHSO 2- alkyl, -NHSO 2- alkenyl, - NHSO 2 - alkynyl, -NHSO 2- cycloalkyl, -NHSO        2
   aryl, -NHSO 2-heteroaryl, -NHS0 2-heterocycloalkyl,
            -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 SO 2 CH 3 , polyalkoxyalkyl, polyalkoxy, -methoxymethoxy,
   methoxyethoxy, -SH, -S- alkyl, -S- alkenyl, -S- alkynyl, -S- cycloalkyl, -S-aryl, -S
 5 heteroaryl, -S-heterocycloalkyl, or methylthiomethyl.
            It is understood that the aryls, heteroaryls, carbocycles, heterocycles, alkyls, and the
   like can be further substituted.
            The terms "halo" and "halogen," as used herein, refer to an atom selected from
   fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine.
10          The term "subject" as used herein refers to a mammal. A subject therefore refers to,
   for example, dogs, cats, horses, cows, pigs, guinea pigs, and the like. Preferably the subject
   is a human. When the subject is a human, the subject may be either a patient or a healthy
   human.
            The term "non-cholesterol lipid" is meant to refer to any lipid that is not cholesterol,
15 for example a macromolecule. Exemplary non-cholestorl lipids include, but are not limited
   to, lipopigments, globotriaosylceramide, ceramide, sphingomyelin, heparan sulfate, partially
   degraded heparan sulfate, GM2 ganglioside, triglycerides, and cholesterol esters, and
   derivatives thereof. A "non-cholesterol dominant lipid" is meant to refer to any lipid that is
   not cholesterol, that is present in an amount greater than cholesterol making it the non
20 cholesterol dominant lipid.
            The term "leaving group," or "LG", as used herein, refers to any group that leaves in
   the course of a chemical reaction involving the group and includes but is not limited to
   halogen, brosylate, mesylate, tosylate, triflate, p-nitrobenzoate, phosphonate groups, for
   example.
25          The term "protected hydroxy," as used herein, refers to a hydroxy group protected
   with a hydroxy protecting group, as defined above, including benzoyl, acetyl, trimethylsilyl,
   triethylsilyl, methoxymethyl groups, for example.
            The term "hydroxy protecting group," as used herein, refers to a labile chemical
   moiety which is known in the art to protect a hydroxy group against undesired reactions
30 during synthetic procedures. After said synthetic procedure(s) the hydroxy protecting group
   as described herein may be selectively removed. Hydroxy protecting groups as known in the
   are described generally in T. H. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic
   Synthesis, 3rd edition, John Wiley & Sons, New York (1999). Examples of hydroxy
                                                     25

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   protecting groups include benzyloxycarbonyl, 4-nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, 4
   bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, 4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, methoxycarbonyl, tert
   butoxycarbonyl, isopropoxycarbonyl, diphenylmethoxycarbonyl, 2,2,2
   trichloroethoxycarbonyl, 2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxycarbonyl, 2-furfuryloxycarbonyl,
 5 allyloxycarbonyl, acetyl, formyl, chloroacetyl, trifluoroacetyl, methoxyacetyl, phenoxyacetyl,
   benzoyl, methyl, t-butyl, 2,2,2-trichloroethyl, 2-trimethylsilyl ethyl, 1,1-dimethyl-2-propenyl,
   3-methyl-3-butenyl, allyl, benzyl, para-methoxybenzyldiphenylmethyl,
   triphenylmethyl(trityl), tetrahydrofuryl, methoxymethyl, methylthiomethyl,
   benzyloxymethyl, 2,2,2-triehloroethoxymethyl, 2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxymethyl,
10 methanesulfonyl, para-toluenesulfonyl, trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl, triisopropylsilyl, and the
   like. Preferred hydroxy protecting groups for the present invention are acetyl (Ac or
   C(O)CH3 ), benzoyl (Bz or -C(O)C 6H5), and trimethylsilyl (TMS or -Si(CH 3)3).
            The term "amino protecting group," as used herein, refers to a labile chemical moiety
   which is known in the art to protect an amino group against undesired reactions during
15 synthetic procedures. After said synthetic procedure(s) the amino protecting group as
   described herein may be selectively removed. Amino protecting groups as known in the are
   described generally in T. H. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic
   Synthesis, 3rd edition, John Wiley & Sons, New York (1999). Examples of amino protecting
   groups include, but are not limited to, t-butoxycarbonyl, 9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl,
20 benzyloxycarbonyl, and the like.
            The term "protected amino," as used herein, refers to an amino group protected with
   an amino protecting group as defined above.
            The term "alkylamino" refers to a group having the structure -N(RaRb), where     Ra and
   Rb  are independent H or alkyl.
25          As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to those salts of the
   compounds formed by the process of the present invention which are, within the scope of
   sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and lower
   animals without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response and the like, and are
   commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are
30 well known in the art. For example, S. M. Berge, et al. describes pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts in detail in J. Pharmaceutical Sciences, 66: 1-19 (1977). The salts can be
   prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds of the invention,
   or separately by reacting the free base function with a suitable organic acid. Examples of
                                                   26

    WO 2014/022841                                                                 PCT/US2013/053527
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, nontoxic acid addition salts,
   or salts of an amino group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid,
   hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic acids
   such as acetic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid or by
 5 using other methods used in the art such as ion exchange. Other pharmaceutically acceptable
   salts include, but are not limited to, adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate,
   benzoate, bisulfate, borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate,
   cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate, dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate,
   glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate, gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate,
10 hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate, lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate,
   maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate,
   oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate, persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, pirate,
   pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate, sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate,
   undecanoate, valerate salts, and the like. Representative alkali or alkaline earth metal salts
15 include sodium, lithium, potassium, calcium, or magnesium salts, and the like. Further
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, when appropriate, nontoxic ammonium,
   quaternary ammonium, and amine cations formed using counterions such as halide,
   hydroxide, carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms,
   sulfonate and aryl sulfonate.
20          As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable ester" refers to esters of the
   compounds formed by the process of the present invention which hydrolyze in vivo and
   include those that break down readily in the human body to leave the parent compound or a
   salt thereof. Suitable ester groups include, for example, those derived from pharmaceutically
   acceptable aliphatic carboxylic acids, particularly alkanoic, alkenoic, cycloalkanoic and
25 alkanedioic acids, in which each alkyl or alkenyl moiety advantageously has not more than 6
   carbon atoms. Examples of particular esters include, but are not limited to, formates,
   acetates, propionates, butyrates, acrylates and ethylsuccinates.
            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs" as used herein refers to those
   prodrugs of the compounds formed by the process of the present invention which are, within
30 the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans
   and lower animals with undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response, and the like,
   commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio, and effective for their intended use, as
   well as the zwitterionic forms, where possible, of the compounds of the present invention.
                                                    27

    WO 2014/022841                                                             PCT/US2013/053527
    "Prodrug", as used herein means a compound which is convertible in vivo by metabolic
   means (e.g. by hydrolysis) to afford any compound delineated by the formulae of the instant
   invention. Various forms of prodrugs are known in the art, for example, as discussed in
   Bundgaard, (ed.), Design of Prodrugs, Elsevier (1985); Widder, et al. (ed.), Methods in
 5 Enzymology, vol. 4, Academic Press (1985); Krogsgaard-Larsen, et al., (ed). "Design and
   Application of Prodrugs, Textbook of Drug Design and Development, Chapter 5, 113-191
    (1991); Bundgaard, et al., Journal of Drug Deliver Reviews, 8:1-38(1992); Bundgaard, J. of
   Pharmaceutical Sciences, 77:285 et seq. (1988); Higuchi and Stella (eds.) Prodrugs as Novel
   Drug Delivery Systems, American Chemical Society (1975); and Bernard Testa & Joachim
10 Mayer, "Hydrolysis In Drug And Prodrug Metabolism: Chemistry, Biochemistry And
   Enzymology," John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. (2002).
            This invention also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions containing
   pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of the invention. For example,
   compounds of the invention having free amino, amido, hydroxy or carboxylic groups can be
15 converted into prodrugs. Prodrugs include compounds wherein an amino acid residue, or a
   polypeptide chain of two or more (e.g., two, three or four) amino acid residues is covalently
   joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino, hydroxy or carboxylic acid group of
   compounds of the invention. The amino acid residues include but are not limited to the 20
   naturally occurring amino acids commonly designated by three letter symbols and also
20 includes 4-hydroxyproline, hydroxylysine, demosine, isodemosine, 3-methylhistidine,
   norvalin, beta-alanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, citrulline, homocysteine, homoserine,
   ornithine and methionine sulfone. Additional types of prodrugs are also encompassed. For
   instance, free carboxyl groups can be derivatized as amides or alkyl esters. Free hydroxy
   groups may be derivatized using groups including but not limited to hemisuccinates,
25 phosphate esters, dimethylaminoacetates, and phosphoryloxymethyloxy carbonyls, as
   outlined in Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews, 1996, 19, 1 15. Carbamate prodrugs of
   hydroxy and amino groups are also included, as are carbonate prodrugs, sulfonate esters and
    sulfate esters of hydroxy groups. Derivatization of hydroxy groups as (acyloxy)methyl and
    (acyloxy)ethyl ethers wherein the acyl group may be an alkyl ester, optionally substituted
30 with groups including but not limited to ether, amine and carboxylic acid functionalities, or
   where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as described above, are also encompassed.
   Prodrugs of this type are described in J. Med. Chem. 1996, 39, 10. Free amines can also be
   derivatized as amides, sulfonamides or phosphonamides. All of these prodrug moieties may
                                                   28

    WO 2014/022841                                                                 PCT/US2013/053527
   incorporate groups including but not limited to ether, amine and carboxylic acid
   functionalities.
            As used herein, "solvate" refers to the physical association of a compound of the
   invention with one or more solvent molecule, whether organic or inorganic. This physical
 5 association often includes hydrogen bonding. In certain instances, the solvate is capable of
   isolation, for example, when one or more solvate molecules are incorporated in the crystal
   lattice of the crystalline solid.
            Combinations of substituents and variables envisioned by this invention are only
   those that result in the formation of stable compounds. The term "stable", as used herein,
10 refers to compounds which possess stability sufficient to allow manufacture and which
   maintains the integrity of the compound for a sufficient period of time to be useful for the
   purposes detailed herein (e.g., therapeutic or prophylactic administration to a subject).
            Pharmaceutical Compositions
15          The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a therapeutically
   effective amount of a compound of the present invention formulated together with one or
   more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier" means a non-toxic, inert solid, semi-solid or liquid filler, diluent,
   encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type. The pharmaceutical
20 compositions of this invention can be administered to humans and other animals orally,
   rectally, parenterally, intracisternally, intravaginally, intraperitoneally, topically (as by
   powders, ointments, or drops), buccally, or as an oral or nasal spray.
            Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
   emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the
25 active compounds, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the
   art such as, for example, water, alcohol or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers
   such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl
   benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, polysorbate, dimethylformamide, oils (in
   particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor, and sesame oils), mono- or di
30 glycerides, glycerol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of
   sorbitan, and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also include
   adjuvants such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, antioxidants,
   sweetening, flavoring, and perfuming agents. The liquid dosage form can also be
                                                     29

    WO 2014/022841                                                                 PCT/US2013/053527
   encapsulated in a gelatin capsule, wherein a compound of the present invention can be
   dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier containing, for example, one or more
   solubilizating agents (e.g., polysorbate 80 and mono and diglycerides), and other suitable
   excipients (e.g., an antioxidants such as ascorbyl palmitate, or a sweetening or flavoring
 5 agent).
            Injectable preparations, for example, sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous
   suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or
   wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile
   injectable solution, suspension or emulsion in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or
10 solvent, for example, as a solution in 1,3-butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and
   solvents that may be employed are water, Ringer's solution, U.S.P. and isotonic sodium
   chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or
   suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including
   synthetic mono- or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid are used in the
15 preparation of injectables.
            In certain preferred embodiments, the compositions of the present invention are
   administered intracranially, for instance injected into the brain, such as by direct injection
   into the brain. Direct injection may be performed by intraventricular and intracerebral routes.
   Injection of the compositions into the brain can also be performed using a device for
20 administration. Because cyclodextrin and delta-tocopherol may pose a challenge with brain
   penetration and quick drug metabolism, direct administration of the drugs into the central
   nervous system may be achieved by using epidural (injection or infusion into the epidural
   space), intracerebral (into the cerebrum), intracerebroventricular (into the cerebral ventricles),
   or intrathecal (into the spinal canal) injection. Pathan et al. (Recent Patents on Drug Delivery
25 & Formulation 2009, 3, 71-89), incorporated by reference in its entirety herein, describes
   some method of administration of a composition to the brain.
            In order to prolong the effect of a drug, it is often desirable to slow the absorption of
   the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use
   of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material with poor water solubility. The
30 rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which, in turn, may
   depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively, delayed absorption of a
   parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in
   an oil vehicle. Immediate release forms are also contemplated by the present invention.
                                                    30

    WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
            Compositions for rectal or vaginal administration are preferably suppositories which
   can be prepared by mixing the compounds of this invention with suitable non-irritating
   excipients or carriers such as cocoa butter, polyethylene glycol or a suppository wax which
   are solid at ambient temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the
 5 rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.
            Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard
   filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high
   molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.
            The active compounds can also be in micro-encapsulated form with one or more
10 excipients as noted above.
            The solid dosage forms of tablets, dragees, capsules, pills, and granules can be
   prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings, release controlling coatings and
   other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. In such solid dosage forms
   the active compound may be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose, lactose
15 or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise, as is normal practice, additional substances
   other than inert diluents, e.g., tableting lubricants and other tableting aids such a magnesium
   stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the dosage
   forms may also comprise buffering agents.
            Preferably, a compound of the invention is formulated in a solid dispersion, where the
20 compound can be molecularly dispersed in a matrix which comprises a pharmaceutically
   acceptable, hydrophilic polymer. The matrix may also contain a pharmaceutically acceptable
   surfactant. Suitable solid dispersion technology for formulating a compound of the invention
   includes, but is not limited to, melt extrusion, spray drying, or solvent evaporization.
            Dosage forms for topical or transdermal administration of a compound of this
25 invention include ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, powders, solutions, sprays,
   inhalants or patches. The active component is admixed under sterile conditions with a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any needed preservatives or buffers as may be
   required. Ophthalmic formulation, ear drops, eye ointments, powders and solutions are also
   contemplated as being within the scope of this invention.
30          The ointments, pastes, creams and gels may contain, in addition to an active
   compound of this invention, excipients such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes,
   paraffins, starch, tragacanth, cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites,
   silicic acid, talc and zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof.
                                                     31

    WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
           Powders and sprays can contain, in addition to the compounds of this invention,
   excipients such as lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates and
   polyamide powder, or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain
   customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons.
 5         Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a
   compound to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispensing the
   compound in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux
   of the compound across the skin. The rate can be controlled by either providing a rate
   controlling membrane or by dispersing the compound in a polymer matrix or gel.
10         The compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric centers and thus
   give rise to enantiomers, diastereomers, and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined,
   in terms of absolute stereochemistry, as (R)- or (S)- , or as (D)- or (L)- for amino acids. The
   present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers, as well as their racemic and
   optically pure forms. Optical isomers may be prepared from their respective optically active
15 precursors by the procedures described above, or by resolving the racemic mixtures. The
   resolution can be carried out in the presence of a resolving agent, by chromatography or by
   repeated crystallization or by some combination of these techniques which are known to
   those skilled in the art. Further details regarding resolutions can be found in Jacques, et al.,
   Enantiomers, Racemates, and Resolutions (John Wiley & Sons, 1981). When the compounds
20 described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry, and
   unless specified otherwise, it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric
   isomers. Likewise, all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included. The configuration
   of any carbon-carbon double bond appearing herein is selected for convenience only and is
   not intended to designate a particular configuration unless the text so states; thus a carbon
25 carbon double bond depicted arbitrarily herein as trans may be cis, trans, or a mixture of the
   two in any proportion.
           The synthesized compounds can be separated from a reaction mixture and further
   purified by a method such as column chromatography, high pressure liquid chromatography,
   or recrystallization. As can be appreciated by the skilled artisan, further methods of
30 synthesizing the compounds of the formulae herein will be evident to those of ordinary skill
   in the art. Additionally, the various synthetic steps may be performed in an alternate
   sequence or order to give the desired compounds. In addition, the solvents, temperatures,
   reaction durations, etc. delineated herein are for purposes of illustration only and one of
                                                     32

    WO 2014/022841                                                                PCT/US2013/053527
   ordinary skill in the art will recognize that variation of the reaction conditions can produce
   the desired bridged macrocyclic products of the present invention. Synthetic chemistry
   transformations and protecting group methodologies (protection and deprotection) useful in
   synthesizing the compounds described herein are known in the art and include, for example,
 5 those such as described in R. Larock, Comprehensive Organic Transformations, VCH
   Publishers (1989); T.W. Greene and P.G.M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis,
   2d. Ed., John Wiley and Sons (1991); L. Fieser and M. Fieser, Fieser and Fieser's Reagents
   for Organic Synthesis, John Wiley and Sons (1994); and L. Paquette, ed., Encyclopedia of
   Reagents for Organic Synthesis, John Wiley and Sons (1995), and subsequent editions
10 thereof.
            The compounds of this invention may be modified by appending various
   functionalities via any synthetic means delineated herein to enhance selective biological
   properties. Such modifications are known in the art and include those which increase
   biological penetration into a given biological system (e.g., blood, lymphatic system, central
15 nervous system), increase oral availability, increase solubility to allow administration by
   injection, alter metabolism and alter rate of excretion.
            The recitation of a listing of chemical groups in any definition of a variable herein
   includes definitions of that variable as any single group or combination of listed groups. The
   recitation of an embodiment for a variable herein includes that embodiment as any single
20 embodiment or in combination with any other embodiments or portions thereof.
                                                Examples
            The compounds and processes of the present invention will be better understood in
   connection with the following examples, which are intended as an illustration only and not to
25 limit the scope of the invention. The following examples can be prepared according to the
   schemes as described above, or according to the synthetic steps as described below. Various
   changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in
   the art and such changes and modifications including, without limitation, those relating to the
   chemical structures, substituents, derivatives, formulations and/or methods of the invention
30 may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended
   claims.
                                                    33

    WO 2014/022841                                                             PCT/US2013/053527
            The chemical structures herein contain certain -NH-, -NH 2 (amino) and -OH
   (hydroxyl) groups where the corresponding hydrogen atom(s) may not explicitly appear;
   however they are to be read as -NH-, -NH 2 or -OH as the case may be.
            Example 1: S-tocopherol and cyclodextrin treatment reduces lipid accumulation
 5          in lysosomes of Lysosome Storage Disorder cells.
            The effect of methyl-p-cyclodextrin on lipid accumulation in fibroblast lines derived
   from patients with Wolman disease was investigated. Wolman fibroblasts were treated with
   6-tocopherol, a-tocopherol, methyl- p-cyclodextrin, or combinations of 6-tocopherol and
   methyl- p-cyclodextrin or a-tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin. Total cholesterol and
10 free cholesterol were then measured using the Amplex-Red Cholesterol Oxidase assay
   (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. As shown in Figures 1A-IC (Total
   cholesterol) and in Figures iD-iF (Free cholesterol), treatment with 6-tocopherol, methyl- p
   cyclodextrin, or combinations of 6-tocopherol and methyl-    p-cyclodextrin or a-tocopherol
   and methyl- p-cyclodextrin caused a significant reduction in total cholesterol and free
15 cholesterol in Wolman fibroblasts. To further characterize the effect of treatment on lipid
   accumulation, treated fibroblasts were evaluated using a Nile Red assay to measure neutral
   lipid accumulation. In brief, cells treated with various drugs were stained with Nile Red
   which selectively labels lipid accumulations within cells. The Nile Red staining was
   visualized by fluorescent microscopy. As shown in Figure 2, untreated Wolman fibroblasts
20 show cytoplasmic droplets of neutral lipid accumulation. These neutral lipid accumulations
   were significantly reduced upon treatment with 6-tocopherol or methyl- p-cyclodextrin.
   Interestingly, a-tocopherol treatment failed to show any effect on neutral lipid accumulation.
            The effects of 6-tocopherol, a-tocopherol, methyl- p-cyclodextrin, or combinations of
   6-tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin or a-tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin
25 treatment on lysosomal exocytosis were determined using the HEXB assay. In brief, the
   level of lysosomal exocytosis was determined by measuring the level of the lysosomal
   enzyme HEXB secreted into the culture medium following treatment with drug. As shown in
   Figure 3, treatment with a-tocopherol, methyl- p-cyclodextrin, or combinations of 6
   tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin or a-tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin resulted in
30 significant increases in lysosomal exocytosis as determined by HEXB secretions. The
   highest levels of exocytosis were seen in Wolman fibroblasts treated with the combination of
   6-tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin.
                                                   34

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
           To further characterize the effects of cyclodextrin on lysosome function in fibroblast
   lines derived from patients with lysosomal storage diseases (Wolman, Tay-Sach, Farber,
   Battern, and Fabry), the effect of cycoldextrin treatment on lysosomal Ca2+ release was
   determined. Both wild-type and lysosomal storage disease fibroblasts were treated with
 5 combinations of 6-tocopherol and methyl-     p-cyclodextrin or a-tocopherol and methyl- p
   cyclodextrin and the levels of lysosomal Ca2+ release stimulated by 200 nM Gly-Phe      p
   naphthylamide (GPN) was measured. As shown in Figure 4, untreated lysosomal storage
   disease fibroblasts displayed reduced Ca2+ release compared to untreated wild-type
   fibroblasts. However, treatment of Wolman fibroblasts, Tay-Sach fibroblasts, Farber
10 fibroblasts, Battern fibroblasts, and Fabry fibroblasts with combinations of 6-tocopherol and
   methyl-  p-cyclodextrin or a-tocopherol and methyl- p-cyclodextrin restored lysosomal Ca2+
   release to those levels seen in wild-type fibroblasts.
           The effect of various cyclodextrins, 6-tocopherol, and combinations of cyclodextrins
   and 6-tocopherol on lipid accumulation and lysosome size in wild-type and lysosomal storage
15 disease fibroblasts (Wolman, Tay-Sach, Fabry, Farber, and MPSIIIB fibroblasts) was
   determined using the Lysotracker assay. In brief, cells were treated with various
   combinations and concentrations of drugs followed by staining with the Lyso tracker dye
   which is a basophilic fluoresecent probe that accumulates in acidic compartments, i.e.
   lysosomes, within the cell. As shown in Figures 5A-5D, Lysotracker staining revealed
20 enlarged lysosomes in Wolman, Tay-Sach, Fabry, Farber, and MPSIIIB fibroblasts compared
   to wild-type cells. Treatment with 6-tocopherol or methyl-     p-cyclodextrin alone reduced lipid
   accumulation and lysosome size whereas treatment with other cyclodextrins alone did not
   have a profound effect. Moreover, the combination of 6-tocopherol and methyl-       p
   cyclodextrin resulted in a significant reduction in lipid accumulation and lysosome size.
25         Example 2: S-tocopherol and cyclodextrin treatment resulted in alleviation of
           the pathological ultrastructuralchanges in lysosomes of cells with Lysosome
           Storage Disorders.
           The effects of 6-tocopherol and methyl-   p-cyclodextrin on the ultrastructural
   pathology of lysosomes in lysosome storage disorder cells were investigated by electron
30 microscopy. In brief, following treatment of wild-type and lysosome storage disorder
   fibroblasts with 6-tocopherol, methyl-   p-cyclodextrin, or 6-tocopherol and methyl- p
   cyclodextrin, the fibroblasts were fixed and embedded. Thin sections of the embedded cells
   were then prepared and the ultrastructural pathology was examined by electron microscopy.
                                                   35

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   As shown in Figure 6, untreated Wolman fibroblasts have lamellated and osmophilic
   structures within the lysosomes. In addition, the cells also have the typical elongated and
   cleft-shaped lipid droplets in the lysomes. However, these abnormal structures were
   significantly reduced by treatment with 6-tocopherol and/or methyl- p-cyclodextrin. The
 5 effects of 6-tocopherol and/or methyl- p-cyclodextrin on the ultrastructural pathology of other
   lysosome disorder fibroblasts - Farber (Figures 7, 8, and 10); Tay-Sachs (Figure 8); Fabry
   (Figure 8); Wolman (Figure 9); NPA (Figure 9); Batten (Figure 9); MSIIIB (Figure 9) - were
   analyzed by electron microscopy. As shown in Figures 7-10, treated cells appear as typical
   fibroblasts (elongated shape, well developed nuclei, normal mitochondria, swollen smooth
10 and rough ER) but with significant amounts of endosomal (in particular multivesicular
   bodies) and lysosomal compartments filled with lipid droplets and multilamellar bodies.
   These compartments are typical for Farber cells as seen before. Most cells have only small
   areas of these structures but a few cells are very much filled with these structures.
           Example 3: Effect of cyclodextrin in single use and in combination with a
15         tocopherol in human NPC1 fibroblasts and neural stem cells (NPC-NSCs)
           In another set of experiments, in skin fibroblasts derived from NPC1 patients, high
   concentrations of HBPCD (in millimolars) is needed for reduction of cholesterol
   accumulation and enlarged lysosomes (Figure 11 A). However, the small concentration of 50
   uM of HBPCD in combination with 10 uM delta-tocopherol reached the same effect as 5 mM
20 HBPCD. Although 160 uM MBCD almost completely reversed the phenotype of NPC1 cells,
   a much smaller concentration of 20 uM MBCD in combination with 10 uM delta-tocopherol
   reached the similar results as those obtained with higher concentration of MBCD used along
   (Figure 11B). Together, the data indicate that MBCD is more potent (over 30 fold) than
   HBPCD for reduction of cholesterol accumulation and enlarged lysosome size in NPC1
25 fibroblasts. In the combination with 10 uM delta-tocopherol, much smaller concentrations of
   HBPCD and MBCD are needed compared to those when both drugs used along.
           Example 4: Effect of cyclodextrin in single use and in combination with a
           tocopherol in neural cells derived from NPC1 patients
           Since major symptoms of NPC disease are within the central nervous system, the
30 human NPC1 neuronal cells are better representative as a NPC disease model for drug
   evaluation. Induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSCs) from the NPC 1 skin fibroblasts were
   generated and differentiated into neural stem cells (NPC1-NSCs). In the Amplex-red
                                                   36

    WO 2014/022841                                                             PCT/US2013/053527
   cholesterol assay, the IC50 values of HBPCD and MBCD were 12 and 10 uM, respectively in
   the NPC1-NSCs, while the IC50 for delta-tocopherol was 18 uM (Figure 12A). In the
   fluorescence microscopy experiments, the effects of HBPCD and MBCD on reduction of
   cholesterol accumulation (filipin staining) and enlarged lysosomes (Lysotracker staining)
 5 were also better than those of delta-tocopherol (Figure 12B). Taken together, the data indicate
   that HBPCD is much more potent in the human NPC1 neuronal cells than that in the NPC1
   skin fibroblasts, whereas the potency of delta-tocopherol is weaker in NPC1 neuronal cells
   compared to that in the NPC1 fibroblasts.
            Example 5: Combination therapy of cyclodextrin and S-tocopherol effectively
10          reduced the concentrations of individual compounds and increased the effect on
            reduction of cholesterol accumulation and enlarged lysosomes in NPC1-NSCs
            A much reduced concentration of 50 uM HBPCD in combination with 10 uM delta
   tocopherol was determined to reach the same effect of 5 mM HBPCD used alone on
   reduction of cholesterol accumulation and enlarged lysosomes in the NPC1-NSCs (Figure
15 13A). Similarly, the effect of 20 uM MBCD in combination with 10 uM delta-tocopherol was
   similar as 160 uM MBCD used alone in the NPC1-NSCs (Figure 13B). The data demonstrate
   that the combination therapy of lower concentration of cyclodextrin and delta-tocopherol
   could achieve the similar therapeutic effect on reduction of cholesterol accumulation and
   enlarged lysosomes in the NPC1 neuronal cells as the large concentrations of both
20 compounds when they use along. This concentration reduction of HBPCD or MBCD needed
   for the treatment of NPC1 in combination with low concentration of delta-tocopherol may be
   important for the clinical use in patients.
            Dosage recommendations taken from the studies using human NPC 1 neutral stem
   cells (NPSCs) are as follows: (1) The IC50 value for HBPCD on reduction of cholesterol
25 accumulation measured by the Amplex-red cholesterol assay is 50 uM and IC50 for delta
   tocopherol is 15 uM. Thus, the ratio is 3.3 fold. (2) In combination therapy experiment, 50
   uM HBPCD + 10 uM delta-tocopherol significant reduced cholesterol accumulation that is
   comparable with 5 mM HBPCD, while 50 uM HBPCD or 10 uM delta-tocopherol along did
   not show the significant cholesterol reduction effect. (3) The molecule weight ratio of
30 HBPCD (MW=1380.25) and delta-tocopherol (MW=402.65) is 3.4 fold.
            Given a mouse body weight of 25 g, where brain:body ratio is 1:40, and assuming a
   complete distribution of HBPCD and delta-tocopherol after direct central envious system
                                                  37

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
   injection of compound by intracerebroventricular injection or intrathecal injection, a
   preferred single use of cyclodextrin for mammals including humans is from 0.1 mg/Kg to 8
   mg/Kg, more preferably 0.5 mg/kG or 1.0 mg/Kg to 2 mg/Kg, 3 mg/Kg, 4 mg/Kg, 5 mg/Kg,
   6 mg/Kg, 7 mg/Kg or 84 mg/Kg. One specific preferred single use of cyclodextrin for
 5 mammals including humans is 3 mg/Kg. In a combination therapy of a cyclodextrin
   compound administered together or otherwise in conjuction with a vitamin E compound such
   as delta-tocopherol, a preferred single dose for a mammal including a human may be from
   0.05 to 1 mg/kg for each of the cyclodextrin compound and vitamin E compound (such as
   delta-tocopherol), more preferably 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.6 mg/Kg or 0.7 mg/Kg for
10 each of a cyclodextrin compound and vitam E compound such as delta-tocopherol, still more
   preferably 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg or 0.4 mg/Kg for each of a cyclodextrin compound and
   vitam E compound such as delta-tocopherol .
           Example 6: Effects of cyclodextrin single use and combination therapy of
           cyclodextrin with 6-tocopherol
15         The effects of cyclodextrin in single use and in combination therapy with delta
   tocopherol have been determined in patient derived skin fibroblasts with nine types of
   lysosomal storage diseases including NPC1 (Figure 14), Batten, Farber, ML III (Figure 15),
   MLIV (Figure 16), MPS1 (Figure 17), MPS VI (Figure 18), NPA and Wolman disease. It
   was found that for single compound use, 8 mM HBPCD or 300 uM MBCD were needed for
20 the significant effect on reduction of the enlarged lysosome size in those cells. However, in a
   combination with 10 uM delta-tocopherol, 500 uM HBPCD or 20 uM MBCD significantly
   reduced enlarged lysosomes in these cells. The results indicate an additive/synergistic effect
   of cyclodextrin with delta-tocopherol on reduction of enlarged lysosomes in the primary
   fibroblasts derived from patients with those nine lysosomal storage diseases. The results also
25 indicate that the dose of cyclodextrin can be reduced 10 fold or more when it is used in
   combination with delta-tocopherol. The significant reduction of cyclodextrin dose in
   combination with delta-tocopherol is important for the treatment of lysosomal storage
   diseases because the high dose of cyclodextrin may cause server side effects in prolonged
   treatment process (it is possible that many of these patients may need a life time treatment).
30         In addition, the high plasma and brain concentrations of cyclodextrin are difficult to
   achieve in the treatment of LSD patients. The 10 fold reductions of cyclodextrin
   concentration required in the combination therapy with delta-tocopherol makes the clinical
                                                   38

    WO 2014/022841                                                                    PCT/US2013/053527
   use of cyclodextrin in LSD patients more feasible. Furthermore, delta-tocopherol is difficult
   to be dissolved in aqueous solution for use in patients that can be resolved in the combination
   therapy because cyclodextrin can facilitate delta-tocopherol dissolving in solution.
 5 Below is Table 1, showing the cell lines used for the above referenced studies.
   Table 1
   Eponym    Disease       Abbre   Affect  Protein            Accumulated        Genotype  Coriell
   of        name          viation ed                         Lipid                        Catalog
   disease                         gene                                                    #
   Batten    Ceroid        CLN2    TPP]    Tripeptidyl        lipopigments       p.R127X,  GM164
             lipofuscinosi                 peptidase I        (lipofuscin)       p.R208X   85
             s, neuronal 2
   Fabry     Alpha-                GIA     Alpha              globotriaosylcera  p.W162X   GMOO
             galactosidase                 galactosidase A    mide               ,         07
             A deficiency                                                        rs207139
                                                                                 7
                                                                                 rs207122
                                                                                 8
   Farber    Lipogranulo           AC      Acid ceramidase    ceramide           p.Y36C,   GM200
             matosis                       (N-acylsphingosine                    p.Y36C    15
                                           amidohydrolase)
   Nieman                  NPC1    NPC]    NPC1               Unesterified       p.P237S,  GM031
   n-Pick,                                                    cholesterol        p.11061T  23
   type C1
   Nieman                  NPC2    NPC2    NPC2               Unesterified       p.C93F,   GM179
   n-Pick,                                                    cholesterol        p.C93F    10
   type C2
   Nieman                  NPA     ASM     Acid               Sphingomyelin      p.L302P,  GM161
   n-Pick,                                 sphingomyelinase                      p.L302P   95
   type A
   Sanfilip  Mucopolysa    MPS     NAGL    N-acetyl-alpha-D-  Partially degraded p.R297X,  GM025
   po type   ccharidosis   IIIB    U       glucosaminidase    heparan sulfate    p.R643H   52
   B         III type B
   Tay-      GM2           TSD             Beta               GM2 ganglioside    c.1278ins GM002
   Sachs     gangliosidosi                 hexosaminidase                        TATC      21
             s                             A                                     c.1278ins
                                                                                 TATC
   Woman     Lysosomal             LAL     Lysosomal acid     Cholesteryl ester  unknown   GM118
             acid lipase                   lipase             & triglycerides              51
             deficiency
            The contents of all references (including literature references, issued patents,
   published patent applications, and co-pending patent applications) cited throughout this
10 application are hereby expressly incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Unless
   otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein are accorded the meaning
   commonly known to one with ordinary skill in the art.
            Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
   routine experimentation, many equivalents of the specific embodiments of the invention
15 described herein. Such equivalents are intended with be encompassed by the following
   claims.
                                                       39

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   What is claimed is:
   1.       A method of treating a lysosomal storage disorder in a subject, comprising:
            determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol lipid reduction or reduction
 5 of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule accumulation, and
            administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a cyclodextrin
   compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
   2.       A method of treating a lysosomal storage disorder in a subject, wherein the subject
10 has been previously identified as being in need of non-cholesterol lipid reduction,
   comprising:
            administering to said subject in need thereof an effective amount of a cyclodextrin
   compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
15 3.       A method of treating a lysosomal storage disorder in a subject, wherein the subject
   has been previously identified as being in need of reduction of non-cholesterol dominant lipid
   and macromolecule accumulation, comprising:
            administering to said subject in need thereof an effective amount of a cyclodextrin
   compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
20
   4.       The method of any one of claims 1 through 3, wherein the lysosomal storage disorder
   is treated by reducing the non-cholesterol lipid or the non-cholesterol dominant lipid and
   other macromolecule accumulation in the subject.
25 5.       The method of claim 4, wherein the non-cholesterol lipid is lipopigments,
   globotriaosylceramide, ceramide, sphingomyelin, heparan sulfate, partially degraded heparan
   sulfate, GM2 ganglioside, triglycerides, or cholesterol esters.
   6.       The method of any of claims 1 through 5, wherein the lysosomal storage disorder is
30 Tay-Sachs disease, Sphingolipidoses, Gaucher disease, Mucolipidosis, Galactosialidosis,
   Salla disorder, Cystinosis, Danon disease, Fabry disease, Farber disease, Lipofuscinoses,
   Pompe disease, Gangliodisosis, ISSD, Krabbe disease, leukodystrophy, Hurler disease,
                                                   40

   WO 2014/022841                                                                   PCT/US2013/053527
   Scheie disease, Hunter disease, San Filippo disease, Sandhoff disease, Schinder disease,
   Batten disorder, or Wolman disease.
   7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the lysosomal storage disorder is Tay-Sachs disease,
 5 Fabry disease, Farber disease, San Filippo disease, Batten disorder, or Wolman disease.
   8.      The method of any one of claims 1 through 7, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is
   of formula (I):
                                                             OR
                                     OR
                                          O     -            On
                               (R1)m                               -(Ri)m
                                     O     rOR RO              .
                            (R1)m         OR              OR          (R1)m
                                  O'      OR             RO                 OR
                          RO              OR             RO           0
                                          OR              OR
                                               ORRO          0
                               (Ri)m    '                           (R1)m
                                                 0        0;:
                                                                OR
                                       RO                        OR
10 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof, wherein,
           each R is independently H, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl,
   or heteroaryl, each of which is optionally substituted; or -C(O)ORB, -OC(O)RB, -C(O)R B, or
             AB
   C(O)NRARB;
           each R1 is independently H, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
15 halogen, hydroxy, amino, -CN, -CF 3, -N 3, -NO 2, -ORB, -SRB, -SORB, -SO 2 RB, -N(RB)S(0       2 )
   RB, -N(R B) S(0 2)NRAR    , -NRRB, -C(O)OR       , -OC(O)R     , -C(O)R    , -C(O)NRR B, or
   N(R B)C(O)R B; each of which is optionally substituted;
           each RA is independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
   heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each of which is optionally substituted;
20         each RB is independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
   heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each of which is optionally substituted;
           nis 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, 9,or 10; and
           each m is independently 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
                                                   41

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   9.      The method of claim 8, wherein each R is independently H, optionally substituted
   alkyl, -C(O)ORB, -OC(O)RB, -C(O)RB, or -C(O)NRARB
   10.     The method of claim 9, wherein each R is independently H, methyl, ethyl, propyl,
 5 butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, or octyl; wherein each is straight chain or branched.
   11.     The method of claim 8, wherein n is 1, 2, or 3.
   12.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 7, wherein the cyclodextrin is 2
10 hydroxypropyl- -cyclodextrin (2HP CD), hydroxypropyl- -cyclodextrin (HP CD), methyl
   P-cyclodextrin (MPCD), a-cyclodextrin, 0-cyclodextrin, or y-cyclodextrin, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
   13.     The method of any one of claim 1 through 7, further comprising the step of
15 administering an additional therapeutic agent distinct from the cyclodextrin compound.
   14.     The method of claim 13 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is administered in
   combination or otherwise in conjunction with the cyclodextrin compound.
20 15.     The method of claim 13 or 14 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is a vitamin.
   16.     The method of claim 15 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is vitamin E.
   17.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 16 wherein the step of administering the
25 cyclodextrin comprises administering the compound orally, topically, parentally,
   intravenously or intramuscularly.
   18.     The method of claim 17 comprising the step of administering an effective amount of
   the compound and a pharmaceutically suitable excipient.
30
   19.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 19 wherein the step of administering the
   cyclodextrin comprises administering the compound in a dosage of between about 0.01 rig/kg
   and 100 mg/kg.
                                                   42

   WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   20.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 18, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is
   administered in an amount from about 0.5 mg/Kg to 8 mg/Kg.
 5 21.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 18, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is
   administered in an amount of about 3 mg/Kg.
   22.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 18, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is
   administered in an amount of about 1.5 mg/Kg.
10
   23.     The method of any one of claims 1 though 18, wherein the additional therapeutic
   agent is administered in an amount from about 0.05 to 1 mg/kg.
   24.     The method of any one of claims 1 through 18, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is
15 administered in an amount from about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1
   mg/Kg to 0.5 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg, or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg.
   25.     The method of any one claims 20-24, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is
   administered in a single dose.
20
   26.     The method of claim 13, wherein the additional therapeutic agent is administered in
   an amount from about 0.05 to 1 mg/kg.
   27.     The method of claim 13, wherein the additional therapeutic agent is administered in
25 an amount from about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5
   mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg, or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg.
   28.     The method of any one claims 26-27, wherein the additional therapeutic agent is
   administered in a single dose.
30
   29.     A method of treating a lysosomal storage disorder in a subject, comprising:
           determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol lipid reduction or reduction
   of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule accumulation;
                                                  43

    WO 2014/022841                                                              PCT/US2013/053527
           administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a cyclodextrin
   compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof in an
   amount from about 0.05 mg/Kg to 1 mg/Kg; and
           administering to the subject an additional therapeutic agent distinct from the
 5 cyclodextrin compound in an amount from about 0.05 mg/Kg to 1 mg/Kg.
   30.     A method of treating a lysosomal storage disorder in a subject, comprising:
           determining that the subject is in need of non-cholesterol lipid reduction or reduction
   of non-cholesterol dominant lipid and macromolecule accumulation;
10         administering to the subject in need thereof, an effective amount of a cyclodextrin
   compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof; and
           administering to the subject an additional therapeutic agent distinct from the
   cyclodextrin compound.
15 31.     The method of claim 30, wherein the cyclodextrin compound is administered in an
   amount from about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5
   mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg, or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg.
   32.     The method of claim 30, wherein the additional therapeutic agent is administered in
20 an amount from about 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.3 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.4 mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.5
   mg/Kg, 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.6 mg/Kg, or 0.1 mg/Kg to 0.7 mg/Kg.
   33.     A method of treating a lysosomal storage disorder in a subject, comprising the step of
   administering to the subject an effective amount of a cyclodextrin compound, or a
25 pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof, and an additional
   therapeutic agent distinct from the cyclodextrin compound.
   34.     The method of claim 33 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is a vitamin.
30 35.     The method of claim 34 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is vitamin E.
   36.     A method of reducing non-cholesterol lipids or reduction of non-cholesterol dominant
   lipid and macromolecule accumulation in a subject, the method comprising administering to
                                                  44

    WO 2014/022841                                                               PCT/US2013/053527
   the subject a cyclodextrin compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or
   hydrate thereof; and detecting the amount of lipid reduction.
   37.      The method of claim 36 wherein the subject is identified as being in need of lipid
 5 reduction.
   38.      The method of any one of claims 1 through 37 further comprising the step of
   synthesizing or obtaining the cyclodextrin compound.
10 39.      The method of any one of claims 1-38, wherein the subject is a human.
   40.      The method of any one of claims 1 through 39 wherein the cyclodextrin compound
   and/or any additional distinct therapeutic agents are administered intracranially to the subject.
15 41.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising a cyclodextrin compound, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof, and vitamin E, together
   with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or excipient.
   42.      The composition of claim 41 wherein the cyclodextrin compound is of formula (I), or
20 a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
   43.      The composition of claim 41 wherein the cyclodextrin compound is 2-hydroxypropyl
   P-cyclodextrin (2HP3CD), hydroxypropyl- -cyclodextrin (HP CD), methyl- -cyclodextrin
   (MPCD), a-cyclodextrin, 0-cyclodextrin, or y-cyclodextrin, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
25 salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
   44.      A method of treating a subject suffering from a lysosomal storage disorder,
   comprising the use of the pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims from claims 41
   43 in combination with another disitnct therapeutic agent.
30
   45.      A kit comprising an effective amount of a cyclodextrin compound, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof, in unit dosage form,
                                                   45

    WO 2014/022841                                                            PCT/US2013/053527
   together with instructions for administering the compound to a subject suffering from a
   lysosomal storage disorder.
   46.      The kit of claim 45 wherein the cyclodextrin compound is of formula (I), or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
 5
   47.      The kit of claim 45 wherein the cyclodextrin compound is 2-hydroxypropyl-p
   cyclodextrin (2HP3CD), hydroxypropyl-3-cyclodextrin (HP3CD), methyl--cyclodextrin
   (MPCD), a-cyclodextrin, 0-cyclodextrin, or y-cyclodextrin, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt, ester, solvate or hydrate thereof.
10
   48.      The kit of any one of claims 45-47 further comprising vitamin E.
                                                  46

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
