                                    ABSTRACT
The system described is an integrated parking management system which makes
use of patented vehicle detectors to collect and transmit data, essentially in near
real time, as to all events happening as to single or multiple parking spaces (e.g.
current and historic use, length of time of occupancy of current occupant) to a
central clearing device for which patent application has been made which serves
as a logic core and repository, making use of proprietary software, analysing,
displaying and distributing the data so developed as to a parking plant and all of
its component to allow all parties (including prospective users) who are
concerned with the various aspects of a parking plant and its components (e.g.
determination as to availability of spaces, maintenance and repair of meters,
collection of revenues and enforcement of parking regulations) not only to access
and make passive use of the information developed, in near real time, to permit
them to identify what's happening to the plant and its components as to their own
particular interest in such plant and so maximize the efficient use both of the
resources of the plant and their own resources directed to the particular aspect of
their interface with the plant and its components but also to access and make
active use of such information for whatever purpose and in whatever fashion
using whatever means of access they may wish.
While others have made claim to certain of the individual functions described, e.g.
vehicle detection, nobody has identified or patented.

                                   1/13
                                                    1-10
            1-7
                       1-8       1-9     Work Order
   Violation]/wl                        FLr       '
                                                         1-2
                            000                           c
1-12a1
                         1-32c
                  1-64
   Park St.
   3 Spaces
   Available
                       1-3
                              1 -14
                   NFIG.4            .1
             1F2G

                                              1
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            This invention relates to the management of vehicle parking systems and
   in particular to such systems using remote management techniques for
 5 enhancing management efficiency and to provide solutions to the parking system
   that could not otherwise be managed by (1) sensing, collecting, recording and
   displaying data regarding all aspects of the environment pertaining to the parking
   system, (2) analyzing the data collected to create actionable outputs responsive
   to the needs of the public and the management of the parking system; (3)
10 communicating with the various parking system components; and (4) receiving
   feedback to perform requested operations for the parking system.
   RELATED ART
   PARKING SYSTEMS
           Although many of the components and their respective functions, such as
15 electronic parking meters, collector nodes, nodes, gateways cellular modems,
   web portals, the internet, wireless communication, computer processing unit
   (CPU) associated with vehicle parking systems are known , there does not exist
   an interactive system which, in near real time, monitors existing parking meters as
   to all facets of their existence and operation (including maintenance and length of
20 stay) and transmits, analyzes, displays and makes available for all users the
   information so obtained and produced.
   Parking Management
            The management of an entity's available parking is a challenge to those
   tasked with administration of that entity. Parking is a resource that has both a
25 diverse user group and a high level of economic and environmental impact. The
   available supply of parking is often much smaller than the demand for it, but is
   also continually changing.       This results in shortages that need to be fairly
   distributed. Price fluctuations to meet changes in demand are also impossible to
   institute because of lack of timely knowledge as to the changes.
30          Price is not the only means by which people have tried to manage parking.
   They have also sought to ration parking through the use of time limits for use of
   the parking spaces.       However, the dispersed nature of parking spaces makes
   monitoring of the spaces by traditional methods ineffective.

                                               2
           Tools exist currently to aide in the management of parking resources. The
   deployment of parking meters greatly enhances the ability to collect monies and
   monitor the use of parking spaces. However, these meters also create a further
   management issue as these pieces of equipment require regular preventative
 5 maintenance as well as occasional repair. Such actions must be performed by
   skilled personnel. This places an additional burden on the administrative body to
   monitor not only the spaces, but the dispersed equipment, parts and personnel
   and to determine when a particular meter is out of order.
           All of this monitoring and management is the challenge of parking
10 administrators. It generally requires all or almost all of the manager's time simply
   to keep the operation running, leaving little time to devote to actual balancing of
   use and availability of parking spaces to the general public. In this regard, the
   current approaches to parking management fail to perform the function they were
   designed to achieve.
15         Parking Space as an Asset
           Due to a limited supply of space and a high degree of demand for parking,
   parking spaces have been delineated for the purpose of distributing the asset
   fairly.  In addition to partition of the assets, time-sharing or rationing occurs in
   towns where time limits are imposed for the use of the asset. This met the need
20 to establish and enforce the rules and the commitment of human resources to the
   management of the asset and its use.          This represented a new asset of the
   community.
           The introduction of the parking meter allowed for time-sharing of parking
   spaces to be timed automatically and increased the efficiency of the human
25 resources committed to parking management. It also allowed for the collection of
   parking fees without requiring the continuous presence of a fee collector. While
   this new asset improved efficiency in the management of a limited resource, it
   has significant collateral requirements and effects. These include the need to
   repair meters, to enforce parking regulations and to collect revenues.           To
30 maximize the efficiency of the parking plant from all points of view, one must also
   be able to analyze the public's use of the space (including identification of
   available space, average time of occupancy) identify meters in need of repair,
   coin boxes in need of collection, meters out of service and parking spaces

                                             3
   occupied in violation of regulations.    All of this information, ideally, should be
   available to parking management and to all who use the plant for whatever
   purpose (e.g. customer or maintenance personnel) in near real time. To date, no
   system has been developed which does this. While technology (a timer and coin
 5 discriminator) allows    the system     of dispersed     assets to operate     in an
   understandable way for all of its users and also allows for more effective
   management of a limited resource, it also requires that inoperable meters be
   repaired and that monies be collected. The additional personnel requirements to
   address these needs often require a layer of management personnel to support
10 their operations.
           Diverse User Groups
           The users of the information able to be developed as to parking spaces
   and the particular pieces of information of use of them are extraordinarily diverse.
   They include the public-the people wishing to make use of the space who want to
15 know availability, location, proximity and terms of what is, in economic reality, a
   short term lease including permitted length of stay and changes; the business
   community who want to know patterns of usage from the point of view of
   maximizing turnover of prospective customer base; the enforcement personnel
   the people charged with enforcing the regulation adopted as to the space; the
20 maintenance personnel-tasked with ensuring the operability of the physical
   assets; the collection crews-responsible for actually collecting the revenues from
   the parking plant on a schedule which ensures no revenues are lost from
   collection bins being filled to capacity; management-charged with ultimate
   responsibility for all of the foregoing as well as maximization of revenues
25 consistent with addressing the underlying concern of the public to best allocate a
   limited resource for the best good of the group.
           Not only are the demands of these various groups best served if they have
   up-to-the-minute information as to the parking plant, there are other uses they
   and others may make of such information which are not directly parking related,
30 e.g. better information as to collection cycles may permit more efficient money
   management by a municipal treasurer; knowledge of meters out of order may
   result in more effective supply chain management of inventory.

                                              4
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
           In one aspect the present invention provides an integrated parking
   management system (IPMS), including:
          space monitoring and meter systems (SMMS) including a number of
 5 parking meters;
          collector nodes dispersed throughout the area in which said meters are
   deployed and forming a network for receiving data from said SMMS and
   transmitting data to said SMMS;
          gateway devices centrally located within said SMMS for wirelessly
10 receiving data from said collector nodes;
          an internet communication system;
          said gateway devices wirelessly transmitting data over said internet
   communication system to a specific address in the SMMS; and
          a central command and control logic center (CCLC) for collecting, storing
15 and analyzing data received from said SMMS via said gateway devices, internet
   communication system and collector nodes to create actionable outputs for
   controlling remote parking system components (RPSC) within the IPMS, the
   CCLC including a presentation engine configured for generating interactive
   documents for display in display devices and effecting the exchange of data to
20 remote devices via cellular, satellite or other long range wireless connections;
          wherein the display devices include at least electronic signs connected to
   the SMMS and configured to effect graphical reporting of at least parking policies.
           In another aspect the present aspect provides an integrated parking
   management system, including:
25        space monitoring and meter systems (SMMS) including a number of
   parking meters;
          collector nodes dispersed throughout the area in which said meters are
   deployed and forming a network for receiving data from said SMMS and
   transmitting data to said SMMS;
30        gateway devices centrally located within said SMMS for wirelessly
   receiving data from said collector nodes;
          an internet communication system;

                                             5
          said gateway devices wirelessly transmitting data over said internet system
   to a specific address in the SMMS;
          a Command and Control Interface (CCI) for receiving data from said
   SMMS via said gateway devices, Internet and Collector Nodes and said CCI
 5 includes a logic core and a communications interface layer (CIL);
          said logic core includes a programmable set of rules to be applied to
   parking events and requests as the CCI receives notification of them; and
          said CIL including a presentation engine for generating           interactive
   documents for display in appropriate display devices and enables and allows for
10 the exchange of data to remote devices via cellular, satellite or other long range
   wireless connections;
          wherein the display devices include at least electronic signs connected to
   the SMMS and configured to effect graphical reporting of at least parking policies.
          In a further aspect the present invention provides an integrated parking
15 management system (IPMS) comprising:
          a number of parking meters each having data transmission capability;
          a plurality of collector nodes forming networked groups of collector nodes
   for receiving data from selected groupings of the number of parking meters and
   each of the groups of collector nodes receiving said data;
20        a gateway receiving the data transmitted from the networked groups of
   collector nodes and transmitting data to the collector nodes of the networked
   groups of collector nodes;
          a central command and control logic center (CCLC) communicably coupled
   to the gateway for receiving, and analyzing data from the gateway, and creating
25 actionable reports relating to the status and control of the parking meters, and
   transmitting the actionable reports to end users of the IPMS at least through a
   web portal; and
          the   CCLC     having    a  computerized  data   flow system     forming    a
   communications interface (CI).
30        In another aspect the present invention provides an integrated parking
   management system (IPMS) comprising:
          a number of parking meters each having data transmission capability;

                                               6
            a plurality of collector nodes forming networked groups of collector nodes
   for receiving data from selected groupings of the number of parking meters and
   each of the groups of collector nodes receiving said data;
            a gateway receiving the data transmitted from the networked groups of
 5 collector nodes and transmitting data to collector nodes of the networked groups
   of collector nodes;
            a central command and control logic center (CCLC) communicably coupled
   to the gateway for receiving information from the collector nodes and sending
   instructions to the collector nodes, and analyzing data from the collector nodes,
10 and creating actionable reports relating to the status and control of the parking
   meters, and transmitting the actionable reports to end users of the IPMS at least
   through a web portal;
           where the CCLC is disposed in at least one of the gateway and one or
   more of the collector nodes.
15 REMOTE ASSET MANAGEMENT
            Parking spaces are not a standard resource.       They are numerous and
   dispersed geographically. This fact makes them more difficult to manage. The
   difficulties presented by the nature of such assets require the use of emerging
   technologies to reduce inefficiencies and provide the proper distribution of the
20 asset to stakeholders.
           A field of management science-Remote Asset Management-is devoted to
   the solution of such problems. This refers to the use of intelligent devices that
   can perform four basic functions:
            i)     Sense, collect, record and display data regarding the current
25 environment relevant to the management of an asset;
            ii)    Analyse the data collected and create actionable outputs responsive
   to the needs of users;
            iii)   Communicate with other necessary system elements; and
            iv)    Receive feedback and perform requested operations
30 Applying this concept to the parking space asset and then involving available
   technologies to enable the highest degree of efficiency in management of that
   asset provides a solution to problems that could not otherwise be managed.

                                               7
          SUPPORTING ASSETS
           In order to provide the needed management of the parking space asset, a
   number of supporting assets are needed to achieve the intelligence and
   communications Remote Asset Management requires. These components are
 5 then also further assets to manage remotely and need to be built and/or
   integrated on the same concepts of Remote Asset Management. This includes
   the personnel deployed to perform specific enforcement and maintenance tasks.
          A patented vehicle detection system, namely U.S. Patent No.: 7,014,355,
   issued 21 March 2006, entitled: Electronic Parking Meter System and owned by
10 the same assignee as the present invention, together with a proprietary system
   for which patent application, namely U.S.             Patent Application Serial No.
    11/179,799, entitled: Smart Meter Patent System , published as US-2007
   0016539-Al on 18 January 2007 and owned by the same entity as the assignee
   of the present application,       identifies all information as to a parking space
15 including when a vehicle enters or leaves a parking space, how long the vehicle
   has been in such space, whether the parking meter associated with the space is
   in good operating order, whether the requested charge for occupancy of the
   space has been paid, whether the vehicle is in compliance with any other
   regulations as to the space, whether a violation has occurred or is about to occur,
20 and status of usage of the collection mechanism. This information is collected,
   stored and then transmitted, to a central command and control interface which,
   making use of proprietary software, collates, analyzes and transmits reports to a
   display, in near real time, which permits the end user of the data to access and
   make use of the data or any part of it in whatever fashion, including wireless
25 communications devices, handheld computer computers, cell phones, electronic
   signage or other response, best fits his needs or wishes. In brief, this system not
   only monitors and reports on the status of the parking plant but permits one to
   control its uses and to access the information so displayed and use it either in
   response to its initial presentation or for other uses including transmission to third
30 parties. All parties involved in parking, from whatever point of view, will be able to
   monitor the status of all parking spaces in near real time to make use of the
   space and the information developed on an interactive basis in accordance with
   their own needs, requirements or wishes.

                                               8
            These uses include;
            i)    the elimination of data entry for ticket writing;
            ii)   identification of empty spaces, storage of detailed transactional data
   of occupants including arrival, departure, time of occupancy and payment events
 5 which permit one to use the collected transactional data to determine the
   incidence of violation occurrence (including type of violation, time of occurrence,
   status of violation (citable or transpired) and length of violation),
            iii)  log of maintenance events and transmission of maintenance events
   to management, permitting the creation of work orders to respond to maintenance
10 events and requirements,
            iv)   the distribution of electronic work orders automatically and the
   maintenance of crew inquiries and supervisor grouping and development with
   real-time updates from the field as to maintenance work performed,
            v)    real-time updates as to equipment out of service,
15          vi)   the distribution of electronic enforcement orders (automatic as well
   as the result of enforcement officer inquiry),
            vii)  use of collected transactional data to eliminate data entry for ticket
   writing,
            viii) real-time updates from the field as to cited violations,
20          ix)   use of license plate recognition systems and real-time updates of
   cited violations,
            x)    real-time matching of violation, citation and maintenance records for
   adjudication of parking tickets,
            xi)   use of GPS for workforce location to enhance deployment and
25 make better use of their services,
            xii)  use of work order/citation updates to locate and employ personnel,
            xiii) use of telemetric assets to locate and deploy personnel,
            xiv)  personnel performance measurements as to number of orders
   addressed and response time as to orders for repair,
30          xv)   electronic updates to permit programming, wirelessly, of detector
   settings and logic,

                                              9
           xvi)   wireless settings and logic and meter settings and logic as to hours
   and days of operation, rate per hour, rate structure and adjustments of rate both
   in real time progression and from time to time,
           xvii)  acceptable forms of payment,
 5         xviii) public interface for parking availability including trip planning
   (available parking near destinations),
           xix)   available parking near current location,
           xx)    information regarding parking locations including policy and time
   limits and payment options,
10         xxi)   use of historical data to permit management to develop models for
   routing for enforcement, collection and maintenance, as well as use of historical
   data to model policy change effects and changes in rate,
           xxii)  detailed summaries of individual spaces as to occupancy, duration,
   violations and revenues and detailed information on the specific parking event for
15 which a citation was issued and use of GPS as appropriate in connection with all
   of the foregoing.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The above objects features and advantages of the invention are readily
   apparent from a consideration of the following description of the best mode of
20 carrying out the invention when taken in conjunction with the following drawings,
   wherein:
           Figure 1 is a diagram of a preferred embodiment of a parking system
   incorporating battery powered client radios installed in parking meters and
   providing data communication        between the parking meters and          various
25 peripheral components associated with the parking system;
           Figure 2 is a diagram of an integrated communications module housed in a
   parking meter enclosure for each of the parking meters of Figure 1;
           Figure 3 illustrates an array of collector nodes in an urban setting n
   accordance with the parking system shown in Figure 1
30         Figure 4 is a diagram of the Command and Control Interface (CCI)
   showing its communication interconnection with the major components of a
   typical vehicle parking system; in an another alternate embodiment of the
   invention;

                                            10
          Figure 5 shows how an event or used request is processed using the
   Central Command and Control Logic Center (CCCLC) and its connection with
   various remote assets and DBs via a communications interface;
          Figure 6 illustrates how two remote assets communicate directly as
 5 opposed to directing communication through the CCI;
          Figure 7 shows the transmission of data from the Space Monitoring and
   Metering Systems back to the Command and Control Interface;
          Figure 8 illustrates the basic process used by the Command and Control
   Interface to process incoming requests and status updates;
10        Figure 9 illustrates communication between various components of the
   parking system to produce a citation for a parking violation detecting by the
   parking system;
          Figure 10 illustrates communication between various components of the
   parking system to provide a work order upon detection of a malfunction in the
15 parking system;
          Figuresl1   - 15 illustrate the basic format of a geographical information
   system user interface.
          Figures 13-15 depict the use of a GPS system to locate and deploy
   personal.
20 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          The current invention consists of both the integration of some or all of the
   components in the embodiment of the invention disclosed herein and the
   methodologies of management by any or all of the users described herein that
   are enabled by such integrated parking management system.
25         In one embodiment of the invention, implementation of the parking system
   uses battery-powered client radios (radios installed by the management of the
   parking system) installed in parking meters that then communicate with Nodes
   (also referred to as Collectors). The nodes form into a network that provides the
   communications backbone for data that is communicated from the Parking Meter
30 Client Radios.
          The parking system illustrated in Fig. 1 shows parking meters (1-1)
   embedded with battery-powered client radios. Data to and from the parking
   meters (1-1) is communicated by a wireless link (1-3) to a collector node (1-2).

                                              11
   The collector node (1-2) communicates wirelessly (1-3a) with other collector
   nodes (1-4) to move data to and from a gateway (1-5).        The gateway (1-5) is
   connected to the internet by a cellular modem, direct connection or other means
   and moves data to a storage device and web portal (1-6). The storage device
 5 and web portal (1-6) then creates reports for use by a parking manager (1-8),
   communicates to parking enforcement (1-7), communicates with the public (1-9)
   about the availability of parking spaces by cell phone, PDA, or on-street signage
   (1-11) or to maintenance teams (1-10) via, for example the internet (1-12) and
   communication links.
10         One component of the parking system shown in Fig. 1 is the wireless client
   node located in the parking meter shown in Fig. 2. Parking meter (2-1) is a device
   which displays time, takes money in various forms, and indicates violation
   condition in the various parking spaces (not shown) of the parking system.
   Modern parking meters are electronic and record and store data relating to the
15 transaction record and the ability to receive instructions about new hours of
   operation and parking rates and terms. An Integrated Communications Module
   (ICM) (2-8) includes a Meter Data Buss (MDB) (2-3), CPU and Memory (CPU &
   M) (2-2), Transceiver (2 - 5), Antenna (2-7) and power supply (2-4) placed in
   communication with a Vehicle Presence Detector (VPD) (2-6) and the Parking
20 Meter (2 - 1). ICM (2-8) is located in a common housing with the Parking Meter
   (2-1) and VPS 2-6.
           The MDB (2-3) permits communications between the principle components
   of the system and permits communications between the remaining systems
   shown in Fig.2 if any one component fails. The CPU & M (2-2) communicates
25 internally with the transceiver (2-1) and MDB (2-3), and by extension with the
   VPS (2-6) and the Parking Meter (2-1) as shown in Fig. 2. The Transceiver (2-1)
   is in communication with the CPU & M (2-2) and Antenna (2-7) which, in turn is in
   communication with the Collector Nodes (1-2) (Fig. 1).The ICM (2-8) receives
   data from, and sends data to, the Parking Meter (2-5), the VPS (2-6) and a
30 Collector (1-2) or a plurality of Collectors (1-2) (Fig. 1).
           Fig. 3 illustrates an Array of Collector Nodes in a typical urban setting.
   Collectors (1-2) provide the communications backbone of the system. Collector
   Nodes (1-2) are in communications with other Collector Nodes (1-2) as shown in

                                             12
   Fig. 3. A Gateway (1-5) or multiple Gateways, and Parking Meters (1-1), or a
   plurality of Parking Meters 1-1. Other Parking Meters (1-1) in turn may be in
   communications with a plurality of Collector Nodes (1-2).
           Collector Nodes (1-2) are typically located on street lights, traffic signals or
 5 other structures located approximately 3-10 meters above street level to facilitate
   communications.
           Gateways as used herein link the Telemetry system to the outside world
   and in the present invention the Gateway is a Computer a Transceiver, and a
   means of communicating with either the internet or a program that provides
10 monitoring and control of the parking plant.
           Components
           Another embodiment       of the    invention includes    a centralized core
   computing system (see Fig. 4) that acts as a command and control center and
   interface for all parking event notifications, user information requests as well as
15 the logging and validation of all communication transmissions made between
   individual components making use of the data collected from patent vehicle
   detectors and transmitted to such system. With respect to Fig. 4, The Space
   Monitoring    and   Metering   System    (SPMMS)      (4-1)  is connected      via any
   communication network available to the Command and Control Interface (CCI) (4
20 2). When events occur that represent a change in the status for the space being
   monitored, or the equipment in place to do so, a communications session is
   opened with the CCI (4-2). During this communications session any data related
   to the change in status is transmitted to the CCI (4-2). This data includes the type
   of change, the space or assist involves, the date and time of the change, details
25 particular to that status change (type of violation, failure, etc.). Also during this
   communications session any additional data stored in the form of transactions is
   sent to the CCI (4-2) for use in historical analysis of the data. These data include
   the individual events needed by the data analysis engine to generate statistics for
   historical reporting. In the case of either a violation state or a maintenance alert,
30 the CCI (4-2) sends a message to the appropriate Enforcement Personnel (4-3)
   or Maintenance Personnel (4-5).
           Upon arriving at the space in question, the worker can communicate
   directly with the (SMMS) (4-1) using wired, wireless or optical communications.

                                            13
   This communication will identify the space in question directly to the work order or
   violation alert the worker is on site to address.   Once identified, the electronic
   work order or citation can be populated wit appropriate information and time
   stamped as to the worker's response to the alert. Parking Staff Supervisors (4-7)
 5 can also access the CCI 4-2 via web portal. Through this portal the supervisor
   can manually assign open work orders and alerts, check on the current or last
   known location of available personnel, generate reports on open orders or alerts
   and examine historical performance reports.     Parking Policy Makers (4-8) can
   access the web portal to obtain historical reports on space usage or to model
10 policy changes. The CCI (4-2) generates reports from data collected by the
   SMMS 4-1) and analyzed by the Data Analysis Engine (not Shown) within the
   CCI (4-2). Changes to policy can then be deployed by either the policy makers or
   parking management staff by instructing the CCI (4-2) to issue programming
   updates to the SMMS (4-1). These are transmitted to the spaces and all related
15 signage The Controlling Entities Accounting Personnel (4-9) access the CCI
   (through the web portal to obtain reports on monies collected from the meters.
   Adjudication Personnel (4-10) use the web portal to access specialized reports
   combining the violations, citations and maintenance records stored in the CCI 4
   2) to determine the validity of citations issued to motorists. Traffic Control
20 Personnel (4-11) use the web portal access to determine links between parking
   availability and traffic congestion and Emergency Services (4-12) to access the
   same portal to assist in the clearing of vehicles from no parking areas from a
   centralized dispatch center. The Parking public (4-13) can use either the web
   portal or a connected intermediary service to get information regarding available
25 parking spaces or to make payment for such spaces.            Alternative Payment
   Clearing Houses (4-14) receive exported data directly from the CCI (4-2) to
   process credit, debit or smart card payments.     Citation Collection Agencies (4
   15) access web portal and/or receive exported data directly from the CCI for
   processing past-due citations. Towing Contractors (4-16) receive alerts from the
30 CCI (4-2) regarding vehicles due to be impounded and their current location as
   enforcement officers submit electronic citation information or from Emergency
   Services (4-12).

                                               14
            Figure 5 illustrates how an event or user request is processed.           The
   request is generated by either the sensing of a parking asset status change or a
   user making a specific request. The Event Initiator Asset/User (5-1) sends a
   message to the CCI (4-2). The request is interpreted by the Communications
 5  Interface (5-2) and processed by the Central Command and Control Logic Center
   (CCCLC) (5-3). The CCCLC (5-3) is programmed to perform predefined actions
   for each request made.       In so doing, the CCCLC (5-3) may query one or more
   Remote Assets (5-4, 5-5, 5-6) as well as one or more Databases (DB-1, DB-2,
   DB-3) to obtain additional information.       The CCCLC's) (5-3) programming may
10 also send instructions to one or more Remote Assets (5-4, 5-5, 5-6) as a result of
   the request. All requests made by the CCCLC (5-3) for action or further data are
   passed through the CI (5-2) to interpret the request or command into a protocol
   understood by the intended asset or database. Once all necessary information is
   compiled it is sent to the CI (5-2) to return a resulting confirmation or report to the
15 initiating asset or user via the Event Initiator Asset/User (5-1).
            Figure 6 illustrates how two remote assets communicate directly as
   opposed to directing communications through the CCI (4-2).              The CI (6-1)
   interprets the communications for transmission over the proper connection and
   protocol (6-2) for the receiving device (6-3). This message is received and
20 interpreted by the receiving device's Communication Interface (6-4) and passed
   to its Logic Center and Short-Term Storage (LCSTS) (6-5). The receiving device
   acknowledges the receipt of the message to the initiating device and both devices
   record the fact of the transmission in temporary storage.           These details are
   eventually sent back to the CCI (4-2) for permanent storage in the centralized
25 communications logs.
            U.S. Patent application 11/179,779, filed 13 July 2005 and still pending,
   discloses a vehicle detection system identifying information with respect to
   individual parking spaces including when a vehicle enters or leaves a parking
   space, how long the vehicle has been in such space, whether the parking meter
30 associated with the space is in good operating order, whether the requested
   charge for occupancy of the space has been paid, whether the vehicle is in
   compliance with any other regulations as to the space, whether a violation has

                                            15
   occurred or is about to occur and the status of usage of the collection
   mechanism.
           The present invention collects, stores and transmits the above data to a
   central command and control interface [(CCCI) in Fig. 7] , which uses proprietary
 5 software, collates, analyzes and transmits reports to a display, in near real time,
   thereby permitting the end user of the data to access and make use of the data or
   any part of it in      whatever    mode, of communication        including  wireless
   communication devices, handheld computer, cell phones electronic signage or
   other modes of expression that best suit the needs or desires of the end user.
10         Fig.7, shows the transmission of data from the Space Monitoring and
   Metering System (SMMS) (7-2) back to the (CCI) Communications and Control
    Interface (7-1).  The SMMS transmit data to Collector Nodes (7-3) dispersed
   throughout the area in which meters are deployed. The Collector Nodes (7-3)
   form a mesh network to transmit data to one or more centralized Gateway
15 devices (7-4). These Gateway devices (7-4) are connected to the Internet (7-8)
   and are able to transmit data over the internet to a specific address.              A
   Router/Firewall device (7-5) receives data delivered to that address and prevents
   unwanted access to the CCI (7-1).      As each SMMS (7-2) is identified with an
   address of its own, messages can be sent along the reverse path from the CCI
20 (7-1) as well,
           Command and Control Interface
           The Command and Control Interface (CCI)          (7-1)  is a computerized
   dataflow system.      Functionally, it consists of a logic core ((7-6) and a
   communications interface layer (7-7).
25         Logic Core
           The logic core (7-6) of the CCI (7-1) is a programmable set of rules to be
   applied to parking events and requests as the CCI (7-1) receives notification of
   them. The rules are both pre-defined and user-definable in nature. The rules will
   dictate how the event or request will be handled. The first step of the rules will be
30 to parse the data stream being received into applicable data elements for
   forwarding to the appropriate databases or management systems. The rules will
   define for each data stream markers upon which the received data stream is to be
   parsed.    The rules will also dictate which system is to receive those parsed

                                            16
   elements and if returned data is expected. Each data stream will then be passed
   to the specific database or management system and confirm receipt of the full
   data stream. The communications with each element will be logged in a separate
   database for historical tracking and internal diagnostic reports. If the rules dictate
 5 that a response from the defined supporting system is expected, the CCI (7-1) will
   wait for that returned data stream and store it locally. Once each parsed data
   stream is processed, any returned data streams are compiled and passed on to
   the communications interface layer 30 (7-7) for delivery to the requesting user or
   remote electronic parking asset.
10          Communications Interface Layer
           The communications interface layer (CIL) (7-7) is a multi-faceted shell that
   can be connected to multiple physical connections and using multiple protocols.
   The interface Layer (7-7) includes a presentation engine which generates
   interactive documents for display in web browsers when applicable. It also allows
15 for the simple exchange of data streams to remote devices by way of cellular,
   satellite or other long range wireless connections. The communications interface
   layer (7-7) uses routing tables to track both the means and protocols to be used
   when communicating with each device.
           Data Transmission
20         The primary operation of the system is to transport data from one location
   to another where it can be acted upon by the receiving device or user. Data is
   transmitted using a predefined packet structure.           This structure includes
   information identifying the origination point of the message, a packet number,
   status data for the device and payload data. The origination id is used to identify
25 for the CCI (7-1) what device sent the message. The packet number is used to
   re-compile data packets if multiple packets are needed to convey all the
   necessary data in the proper order. This is necessary in case communications
   latencies cause the packets to be received out of order. The device status data
   consists of several key pieces of information used by the CCI (7-1) to monitor the
30 operating status of the reporting device. The payload portion of the packet is the
   detailed data being sent to the CCI (7-1) for processing.
           To transfer data, the communications interface CCI (7-1) receives the data
   to be transmitted and the device address to which it is to be delivered. Based on

                                             17
   defined routing tables, the means of communication and protocols are determined
   and the payload data formatted for delivery. The delivery of information may be
   addressed to one individual device or a group of devices. Once received, the
   packets are re-ordered as necessary and interpreted by the logic of the receiving
 5 device(s).    The payload of the data packet will tell the receiving device what
   action to take and which parameters to apply.
           User Interface
           In order for human users to interact with the system, the CCI (7-1) includes
   capabilities to produce interactive web page documents that can be accessed by
10 users over any internet connection. The invention includes several different types
   of interfaces.
           Figure 8 illustrates the basic process by which the CCI (7-1) processes
   incoming requests and status updates.          The event is received by Receive
   Event/Request (8-1) to start the process. The CIL in the Parse Event/Request (8
15 2) parses the data stream to single-out the various data items included in the
   streams.    The CCI (7-1) then enters a processing loop (8-3) until each of the
   various data items have been processed. Each data item is formatted and sent to
   the database management system (8-5) defined in the Logic Core's programming
   and acknowledgement is then received from the data base or system.             If the
20 Logic Core's programming indicates that data is to be received from the database
   or management system (8-7). The CCI interface awaits that returned data (8
   7).Once all of the data items have been processed, the programming of the logic
   core dictates a means by which any returned data is to be compiled (8-8) and the
   resulting compilation of data is passed to the Communications Interface Layer for
25 delivery to all of the pertinent assets and users (8-9).
           Figure 9 illustrates the processing of a violations event. The event is
   reported by the SMMS (4-1) and passed through the telemetry (9-1) back to the
   CCI (7-1). The Logic Core (7-6) process the data received and creates a Citation
   Detail (9-2). This data is then transmitted via a wireless communications network
30 (9-3) to an enforcement officer's handheld computer (9-4) where a citation (9-5) is
   written once the officer reaches the space in question.
           Figure 10 illustrates the processing of a parking asset malfunction (10-1).
   The malfunction is reported by the SMMS (4-1) and passed through the telemetry

                                               18
   (10-2) back to the Command and Control Interface. The Logic Core processes
   the data received and creates an electronic Work Order (10-3).         This is then
   transmitted via a wireless communications network (10-4) to a maintenance
   worker's handheld computer. The worker then performs the repair and completes
 5 the electronic Work Order (10-5). In completing the Work Order, the worker lists
   any parts used and places a time stamp on the repair made. This information can
   then be transmitted back to the CCI.
           Geographical Parking Information System
           Figures 11-15 illustrate the basic format of a geographical information
10 system user interface. The interface has many views and filtering levels. Figure
   11 shows a view focused on enforcement status. The selection controls (11 -1)
   allow the user to filter the view according to specific statuses. In this case, the
   view is filtered to show only unoccupied spaces. These are indicated by icons
   (11-2) on the map.
15         Figure 12 shows the same view as Figure 11, however in Figure 12 a user
   has clicked on one of the icons. When this happens a balloon or window (12-1)
   opens to provide further details regarding the space represented by the icon.
           Figure 13 is similar to the Figures 11 and 12, but the filter has been
   expanded to show both unoccupied spaces and those with an expired meter
20 violation
           The detail balloon (13-1) gives information about both the space and the
   violation occurring therein. Figure 14 is a view of the GIS that represents user
   defined groupings of spaces. In this case, the user as defined groups based on
   the enforcement policy in effect at the spaces.           The selected policies are
25 indicated by the colored line (14-1) or some other visual means.
           These groupings can then be used to run reports, make changes to policy,
   or otherwise manage the spaces.          Figure 15 shows a geographic selection of
   meters.    Users can define different types of geographies.     Such types can be
   either political (council district) or functional (enforcement zones). As with the
30 groupings in Figure 14, these selections (15-1) can be used to generate reports,
   change policy or manage the spaces within that geography.
           Type are initiated with a user selecting one or more spaces using a mouse
   or by selecting the spaces from a list in the Parking Public (4-27). Once selected,

                                              19
   the user can initiate predefined actions using menus accessed through a menu
   bar on the top of the interface screen or by contextual menus available through a
   defined combination of mouse clicks. A series of parameters can then be entered
   by the user to define the specifics of the request.       The entire request is then
 5 passed on to the logic center of the CCI (4-2) where predefined rules dictate what
   data elements are to be collected, how they are to be collated and to which
   device(s) communications should be passed.
           Similarly, the icons on the map images can be used to display current
   status information. This information is updated either by manual request of the
10 user to refresh the display or by automatic refreshing of the display. In either
   case, CCI (4-2) retrieves information regarding the current location and status of
   remote assets and personnel from a database containing the current information
   and updates the display image to reflect any changes.
           Textual Reporting
15         Often, the information required by users (peripheral components (4-21-30)
   is statistical in nature.   To address these requests, the invention will include
   textual reports which will be available to users.        Reports are driven by input
   screens specifying date ranges, selection of spaces by groups or individually,
   types of statistics and information to be included, e.g. how many meters in a plant
20 are inoperative at a particular time and sub-sections of data to be compared to
   one another. Reporting will take the form of written reports, tables or charts as
   contextually appropriate for the statistics requested by the user.
           Graphical Reporting
            In addition to the textual reports, graphs offer visual representations of
25 statistics that provide quick and concise understanding of trends, comparisons
   and breakdowns of interrelated statistics.
           Like the textual reports, graphical reports will be presented as directed by
   a user input screen which controls date ranges, groups or individual spaces to be
   included and the statistics to be graphed. Users also select the graph type to be
30 used from a list of available graph types.        When applicable, the users can
   compare statistics by overlaying one statistic against another.           The graph
   selection interface provides the option for the user to specify if results are to be
   presented on separate axes.         This is useful when comparing statistics with

                                            20
   differing units of measure, such as comparing revenue in dollars against
   compliance levels measured in percentages.
           Electronic Signage / Displays
           The system includes electronic displays for remote units such as the space
 5 monitoring and metering equipment.      Such displays (for example, the displays
   shown in Figs. 11-15) include street signs and LCD displays connected to the
   actual metering equipment to communicate current rates and policies to the
   parking public. The electronic nature allows such signage to be updated to reflect
   changes in rates, hours of operation and so on without the need to deploy a
10 workforce to replace or modify signs. Without such signage, quick and regular
   changes can not be made to such policies.
           Supporting Databases and Management Systems
           In order to render detailed and flexible reports in all of the necessary
   formats, a number of interconnected systems and databases are required. The
15 CCI (4-2) coordinates the inputs of these individual data sources to create the
   individual presentations in any one or more of the peripheral components (4-1-16)
   shown IS Fig. 4.
           Data Analysis Engine
           The data analysis engine is used to process raw data received from
20 meters and user inputs.
           For the processing of meter data, a system like the Smart Meter System as
   described in    U.S. patent application Serial No. 11/179,779, filed 13 July 2005
   and pending is incorporated by reference to the Brief Description of the Drawings
   and the Detailed Description as found in that application. This system must be
25 expanded to allow for maximum flexibility in system management. The outputs of
   this processing are then stored in an associated database in the CCI (4-2). For
   later retrieval and compilation into the aggregated statistics required for user
   requested reports.
           The system of the invention also allows for modeling of changes in policies
30 affecting the operation of the parking system as formulated by the Parking Staff
   Supervisors (4-7) and Parking Policy Makers (4-8). By storing historical data, the
   system can generate theoretical reports of revenue and usage impact if changes
   policy had been or were to be adopted.        The user can simply specify which

                                            21
   statistics to manually alter and which statistics to calculate and the system can
   use the historical data to estimate the results. These results are based on actual
   data for target geography and allow a user to make a variety of assumptions such
   as the assumption that compliance levels would decrease by a certain
 5 percentage if rates were raised.
           Current Status Database
           The current status database is a database containing records for each
   asset or human resource being monitored.
           Records relating to spaces being monitored by the SMMS (4-1) contain
10 information regarding the space's usage state, violation state and maintenance
   state. The table is updated with each new report from the system telemetry of
   changes in the space's various statuses. The details of the records contain any
   exception cases relating to the space, its electronic parking meter, its vehicle
   detector or the communications device.
15         Records relating to human resources, for example by the Parking Staff
   Supervisors (4-7) or the Parking Policy Makers, are also updated as new data is
   received by the system communication techniques, such as telemetry.           These
   records include information regarding the equipment in use by that employee
   (including vehicles and tools), the employee's location and any assigned or
20 associated work orders as required by the Maintenance Personnel 4-5.
           Parking Inventory Management Systems
           One major component of managing any operation of asset, is inventory
   tracking. Each element of the operation is identified with a unique serial number.
   This serial number is used to index a database table which contains all
25 information regarding the asset. This information includes part numbers, model
   numbers and manufacturer.
           Additional database tables are used to track historical events regarding the
   asset. Such events include maintenance issues and events, upgrades, location
   changes and connected assets. This data is useful to the operation of the
30 Maintenance Personnel (4-5). The supplemental tables can be used to display
   both current and historical data regarding any asset in the system in order to
   schedule maintenance, replacements or upgrades.

                                              22
           When problems do arise that may require replacement parts, tables storing
   information regarding associated replacement parts and available stock for
   replacements can be used to ensure maintenance crews (Maintenance Personnel
   (4-5) have all the necessary parts to perform needed repairs. Further tables store
 5 information regarding the sources for purchasing parts and lead times to facilitate
   efficient ordering of parts from their manufacturers.
           Most systems also contain tools to further create efficiencies in inventory
   management by recording the attributes of ordering parts from manufacturers and
   calculating the most effective ordering quantities and shipping costs.
10         Maintenance History
           As mentioned previously, the maintenance history of each asset is tracked.
   This information is important in analyzing trends of breakdowns facilitating
   preventive Maintenance Personnel (4-5) as well as improving the experiences of
   the parking public (4-13). Often, people who have been cited for violations of
15 parking policy contest tickets due to alleged malfunctions in the parking meter.
   Historical information can be referenced to determine if such a failure had
   occurred.    If so, the ticket can be dismissed. This data is necessary for the
   operation of the Enforcement Personnel (4-3).
           If malfunctions occur within a defined geographic region during specific
20 times, maintenance managers may be able to identify problems of vandalism and
   seek assistance from law enforcement to correct the problem.
           Policy Management
           The policy management database is used to track the various meter rates,
   days and times of operation and the enabling of special features. This database
25 also tracks the historical application of these policies to individual spaces.
           The database is referenced to process data received from the SMMS (4
   1).    The analysis of this raw data must apply the correct meter rate and
   enforcement parameters by the Enforcement Personnel (4-3) to the data in order
   to correctly calculate statistics and update the current space status in the current
30 status database for display in maps (Figs. 11-15) and reports.
           Work Order Database
           When remote assets report problems or maintenance needs are identified
   by any of the system users, a work order is created by the logic core (7-6) Fig 7 of

                                             23
   the CCI (4-2). This work order is assigned a unique identification number which
   is used as an index in the work order database. This database in the CCI (4-2)
   stores information regarding what the problem is, to whom the work was assigned
   and when the work order was distributed to the person assigned to do the work.
 5 The database also tracks inputs received from field personnel regarding when the
   work was completed, what parts were needed to perform the repair and what
   additional work was done while on site. This information can then be referenced
   by management to create reports on response time, update part inventories and
   evaluate personnel.
10         Violations and Citations Database
           This database described above is used to store information received by
   the SMMS (4-2) system.         Each time a violation is identified by the space
   monitoring and metering system, it is recorded in the database. The identified
   violation is assigned a unique identification number which is used as an index for
15 the database. The database tracks the type, length and status of each violation.
   The violation is also cross referenced against the information stored in the data
   analysis engine to link the citation to a particular occupant. If a violation is cited,
   information regarding the response time to that violation is also tracked.
           This database is then available in conjunction with the maintenance history
20 database to allow for complete addressing of citation complaints. This data can
   provide an overall picture of the complaining occupant's stay when combined with
   the information from the data analysis engine and the occupant identified with the
   violation.
           Finally, the violation database can be queried by citation collection
25 agencies - either internal or third-party - to age past-due violation payments,
   advance further collection efforts by contacting violators and identify violators
   guilty of scofflaw violations. Such violators would then be subject to stiffer fines,
   towing or other penalties.
           The citation database stores information in the CCI (4-2) regarding each
30 citation issued, the type of citation issued, along with the date and time it was
   issued, the vehicle characteristics (such as color, license plate number and
   issuing authority, the Vehicle Identification Number) and the location of the
   citation.

                                             24
           An example of the manner of generating a citation from a violation of a
   parking space is illustrated in Fig.10 as described herein..
           Collections Database
           The collections database in the Citation Collection Agency (4-15) is used
 5 to store information about the monies collected during each collection of monies
   from the parking meters.       The database is indexed by a unique identification
   number. The collection records track the date and times of the collection, the
   crew responsible for the collection and the amount collected. Further tables link
   the individual meters collected during each collection.      This allows for cross
10 referencing of the date and time each meter was last collected. This serves to
   both audit the amounts collected from the meters as well as assist in estimating
   the degree to which the collection canister in each meter has filled since it was
   last emptied.
           Financial Accounting Management System
15         Financial accounting management systems in the Controlling Entity's
   Accounting Personnel (4-9) are used to track monetary inflows and outflows. As
   such, any parking management system such as described in the preferred
   embodiment of this invention should integrate with the systems used by a city to
   track its finances. This allows a city to directly feed the vast amount of financial
20 information drawn from the parking management system into reports, audit
   mechanisms and budgeting.
           Remote Electronic Assets
           Space Monitoring and Metering Systems
           A primary feature of the preferred invention embodiment is the equipment
25 used to monitor the base asset managed by the parking systems in accordance
   with the present invention departments.          The combination of a detection
   technology to monitor the arrival and departure of occupants and a metering
   interface for users of the space allows for complete control of that asset and
   reporting its use. Such technology is described in the aforementioned U.S. patent
30 application Serial No. 11/179,779 and the detailed description and Brief
   Description of the Drawings therein are incorporated by reference.
           The detection technology monitors the space and, when an arrival is
   detected, communicates that fact to the electronic parking meter. This begins the

                                             25
   user's time-lease of the space.      The electronic meter accepts payment and
   determines the amount of time to be granted the user based on the amount of the
   payment. The meter tracks the parking time limits and, in conjunction with the
   signal beginning the occupant's lease of the space, determines the amount of
 5 time an occupant should be allowed to purchase. The meter also provides an
   outward indication of the time remaining for the user.
           For each event occurring at the space, a record of the event is made. Each
   record contains the type of event, the date and time of the event and any detailed
   characteristics of the event, such as payment amount or type of meter
10 malfunction. This operation is described in the aforementioned patent application.
           This SMMS (4-1) is connected either wirelessly or otherwise to the CCI (4
   2) as shown in Fig.4. This allows the SMMS to communicate both high priority
   events and logged events back to the CCI (4-2). The SMMS              also receives
   updates to programming or parameters of operation from the CCI (4-2).          This
15 allows remote updates to meter rates, hours of operation and other use details.
   Electronic displays (not shown) allow users to be informed of the current rates
   and hours without the need for workers to be deployed for the purpose of
   updating such signage. Street signs can also be updated in a similar fashion.
           With the addition of this signage to the system, new concepts can be
20 applied to parking management. Before the incarnation of such a system, these
   concepts were only theoretical. Parking management has been shown to impact
   the environmental and economic landscape of cities. In times of high demand,
   drivers will cruise an area seeking convenient parking. The invention implements
   a pricing structure for parking which is based on demand for a location. The user
25 can    programmatically    adjust rates    to achieve  particular  benchmarks     in
   occupancy. The policy managers of a city can define areas of common rate
   structures which are monitored for levels of occupancy.           Target levels of
   occupancy can then be set by the policy makers. The system then automatically
   increases parking rates when occupancy levels rise above that target level or
30 lower rates if occupancy drops below the target occupancy level. The user can
   also determine the means by which rates are raised and how quickly this is done.
   This can be done by specifying an algorithm and intervals of both time and price
   change for changes to be enacted. The system is capable of defining multiple

                                              26
   algorithms within a given entity so that the system can be fine tuned to the
   specific needs of each geography.            This also allows the use of different
   algorithms by each entity should they choose to implement a different method of
   rate determination than other cities.
 5         Additionally, spaces without metered parking can be equipped with
   detection devices to enforce those spaces with parking that is restricted or
   prohibited by time of day, day of week.
           Enforcement Handheld Computers
           Enforcement handheld computers are any kind of handheld electronic
10 device known to the enforcement personnel of a parking system (not shown)
   which can be connected to the CCI (4-2) through any combination of wired or
   wireless communications technology known to those skilled in that art . These
   devices can receive a combination of information from the CCI (4-2), bar codes,
   optical character recognition technologies and User inputs.
15         The handheld devices and associated communication techniques provide
   a standardized form for the enforcement officers to write citations. Officers use
   information provided by the CCI (4-2) to identify the type of violation or violations
   being observed. Scanning of the parking meter itself identifies the location of the
   violation and the internal clock timestamps the citation. The license plate can be
20 scanned and the vehicle's Vehicle Identification Number scanned for its inclusion
   in the citation record.
           The handheld device is connected to a printing device (not shown, but part
   of standard handheld devices) which creates a written citation for placement upon
   the offender's vehicle. The completed citation's information is then fed back to
25 the CCI (4-2 for recording into the violation database as well as updating of the
   current status database to indicate a violation was addressed. The afore
   described functions and operations are performed by the Enforcement Personnel
   (4-3) and Traffic Control Personnel (4-11).
           The completed citation also allows the CCI (4-2) to identify the location of
30 the enforcement officer and provide information regarding additional violations in
   that officer's vicinity. The device also allows the enforcement officer to report any
   type of problem with the meter that requires the involvement of maintenance
   personnel. The officer fills out an electronic work order which is communicated

                                            27
   back to the CCI for assignment to a work crew. These functions and operations
   are performed by the Enforcement Personnel (4-3).
           Complementary technology to that described above for carrying out the
   various functions described in this section is disclosed in the Brief Description of
 5 the Drawings and the Detailed Description of the aforementioned U.S. patent
   Serial No 11.179,779..
           Maintenance Handheld Computers
           Maintenance handheld computers are any kind of a handheld electronic
   device which can be connected to the CCI (4-2) though any combination of wired
10 or wireless     communications technology known to those skilled in such
   techniques. These devices can receive a combination of information from the
   CCI (4-2), bar codes, optical character recognition technologies and user inputs.
           The peripheral Maintenance Personnel component shown in Fig. 1
   receives electronic work orders from the CCI.     The work orders direct personnel
15 to problem meters along with information as to what is wrong with the meter, what
   parts may be needed and how long the meter has been out of order.
           Once work has been completed, maintenance personnel record the work
   completed to repair the meter, any changes in inventory due to replacement of
   parts or equipment as well as any additional work performed beyond the reported
20 problem. All of this information is time stamped and communicated back to the
   CCI which updates all appropriate databases.          In systems which segregate
   collections activities from maintenance, the device provides an interface through
   which a maintenance worker can alert collections that a meter is in need of
   collections to operate correctly.  An electronic work order can be created and
25 communicated back to the CCI for assignment to a collections crew.
           Collections Handheld Computers
           Collections handheld computers are any kind of handheld electronic device
   which can be connected to the CCI (4-2) though any combination of wired or
   wireless communications technology. These devices can receive a combination
30 of information from the CCI (4-2), bar codes, optical character recognition
   technologies and user inputs.
           Collections workers use the devices to scan the meters as they collect the
   monies stored in the parking meter vault. This provides a timestamp for each

                                               28
   collection made at a given meter. This information is communicated back to the
   CCI (4-2) where it is stored.
           The device also allows the collections workers to report any type of
   problem with the meter that requires the involvement of maintenance personnel.
 5 The officer fills out an electronic work order which is communicated back to the
   CCI for assignment to a work crew. These functions and operations are carried
   out by the Controlling Entity's Accounting Personnel 23.
           Internal Users
           Maintenance
10         Maintenance workers can access the CCI to receive electronic work
   orders. These work orders can be tailored to the way work crews are equipped
   with tools and inventory as well as location. This method of deployment reduces
   or eliminates the need for regular maintenance route following.            Rather than
   expending the effort to locate and identify specific failures, workers can be
15 directed to these specific failures, increasing efficiency greatly.
           Workers also can use the electronic work orders to track repairs and
   provide updates to system operability in near real time. The details of the work
   orders also track the use and movement of inventory.
           The above operations and functions are carried out by the Maintenance
20 Personnel (4-5) as described above under the headings Maintenance History and
   Work Order Database.
           Enforcement
           Enforcement officers access the CCI (4-2) to receive information about the
   location and types of violations. This can allow officers to go directly to areas in
25 which a high incidence of violations is occurring.           This means officers can
   effectively enforce a much greater number of meters with less effort.
           The CCI (4-2) then passes information to the handheld device used for
   ticket writing to assist in writing citations. Information regarding the details of the
   violation, such as type of violation and its related ordinance are added to the
30 citation record.   The officer then adds the relevant information from the cited
   vehicle by scanning license plates and Vehicle Identification Numbers.             The
   information regarding the location of the violation can then be entered into the
   record by scanning the meter's space number.                Alternatively, the needed

                                             29
   information can be keyed in by hand using the handheld computer. This process
   applies not only to parking meter violations, but also any space equipped with
   occupancy detection devices.
           Once the citation record is complete, the details are transmitted back to the
 5 CCI (4-2) and stored in the citation database. The details are also then used to
   produce a written citation.     Printers attached either wired or wirelessly to the
   handhelds produce easily readable citations in seconds. This written citation is
   left on the cited vehicle. The CCI can then use the location of the citation to direct
   the officer to nearby violations.
10         Collections
           Collections workers in the Citation Collection Agency (4-15) are alerted by
   the CCI (4-2) through the handheld computers what meters require collection.
   This allows for collections to be performed with greater efficiency. Additionally,
   collection workers scan each meter as it is collected and the collection event is
15 time stamped. These time stamps are recorded in the collections database for
   use in auditing reports.
           Supervisory
           Supervisors in the Parking Staff Supervisor's (4-7) component query the
   CCI (4-2) for information regarding the status of the parking system and related
20 personnel. The CCI (4-20 provides maps and reports for supervisors to see in
   near real time what spaces need attention from personnel and the location of
   each personnel available to perform the needed work.
           The reporting gives supervisors up to date information regarding city-wide
   operability, utilization and compliance levels. The information is presented in a
25 manner that is instantly understandable.         The status of various assets is
   displayed using color coded icons. These icons are placed on a map generated
   by the CCI in the locations representing the geographical coordinates of each
   asset.
           The collection of data regarding when parking events were handled by
30 personnel in relation to notification being sent also provides performance data for
   supervisors. Such reports can be used to identify problems areas such as difficult
   repairs, inaccessible locations and workforce shortages. With such performance

                                            30
   reports, individual employees can also be measured for their relative performance
   and compensated for effective work habits.
           Accounting
           Accounting personnel can access the CCI (4-9) to obtain up to date
 5 information regarding the revenues received by parking operations. Many times,
   tracking is required to ensure security of the funds deposited by the parking
   public. Audits of the monies collected by meters versus the amounts deposited
   ensure end to end security of those funds.
           Accounting can also query the CCI          (4-2) for information regarding
10 outstanding citation payments and the aging of such payables to the city.
    Interoperability of the system with the city's financial accounting system allows
   information to be quickly and accurately incorporated into financial reports. The
   CCI (4-2) formats data for export directly to the accounting systems.        Since
   information is readily transferred from the parking management system to
15 financial accounting management systems, cities can use the features of financial
   accounting management systems to easily budget for future receipts from parking
   operations.
           Finally, accounting personnel can also make use of the modeling
   capabilities of the preferred embodiment of the invention to understand the
20 financial impacts of proposed policy changes such as rate or enforcement hour
   changes.
           Inventory and Purchasing
           Since parts and equipment are closely monitored and delivery times
   estimated, inventory can be reduced to the most efficient level.        Purchasing
25 managers can order replacement parts, track returns and receive new stock
   through a unified interface provided by the CCI (4-2). This interface is kept up to
   date on a near real time basis as personnel supply parts and equipment for new
   installations and repairs.
           [Purchasing agents can update information regarding lead times, re-order
30 points and other pertinent information by reviewing the purchasing history.       A
   query sent to the CCI (4-2) generates a report of how many parts were ordered
   from which vendor and at which frequency.

                                              31
           These operations and functions can most likely be performed                by
   Maintenance Personnel (4-5).
           PolicyMakers
           Policy makers in the Parking Policy Makers component (4-8) for a city can
 5 query the CCI (4-2) for reports regarding the usage patterns and revenues
   historically experienced in different geographies and/or under different parking
   policies. These reports can be used to identify unmet goals within the parking
   management.      If a goal of parking managers is to achieve specific occupancy
   levels or compliance levels, areas of concern can be identified and action take to
10 change rates, hours of operation or any other factor to better meet those
   management goals.
           Once the areas of concern are identified, the CCI (4-2) can access the
   data analysis engine's modeling capability to determine the effects of changing
   parking policies. Such testing can be done to determine the effectiveness of the
15 proposed changes without trial and error implementations of policy modifications.
   This saves public confusion and dissatisfaction with the parking system.
           Adjudication
           When handling ticketing complaints, adjudicators in the Adjudication
   Personnel component (4-10) can query the CCI (4-2) for information about both
20 the violation in question and the violator. The data in the citation database,
   violation database and the data analysis engine are combined and presented as
   a unified report by the CCI (4-2) illustrating all of the details of the violation
   including time of the violation, the type of violation(s) observed, the arrival and
   departure times of the occupant and the amount the occupant paid. By accessing
25 the maintenance database, the CCI (4-2) can also present information regarding
   the operability of the meter at the spot if applicable. This allows the adjudicator to
   quickly determine the validity of the citation. The adjudicator can also then query
   the CCI (4-2) for information regarding the violator.        The history of citations
   received by the occupant and the rate at which citations were paid, dismissed or
30 left unpaid can be reported.     This allows for the adjudicator to identify regular
   parking abusers from those truly righting an injustice.

                                             32
          Emergency Services
          Parking is generally prohibited in front of equipment needed by emergency
   services such as fire hydrants.      Space monitoring equipment placed in such
   places by the SMMS (4-1) quickly identify infractions and allow citation and/or
 5 towing of violating vehicles from such spaces. This decreases or eliminates the
   danger to the public that emergency workers would be hindered in their efforts to
   respond to an emergency.
          Similarly, there are instances when emergency services need to clear
   streets of parked vehicles. In such instances, up to date information regarding
10 the number of vehicles to be cleared can help deploy tow trucks and personnel to
   perform the task effectively. Mangers can query the CCI (4-2) for this information.
          The above functions and operations are carried out by the Emergency
   Services component (4-12).
          Traffic Control
15        Studies of traffic flow have indicated that much of traffic congestion
   observed in areas where on-street parking exists is due in large part to the high
   levels of occupancy.     Traffic control managers can query the CCI (4-2) to
   determine if areas of high congestion also show overly high levels of parking
   occupancy. If a correlation exists, action can be taken to lower the demand for
20 parking in those areas. This is often done by increasing the price for on-street
   parking in that area.   With lower demand levels, fewer drivers will "cruise the
   block" looking for a parking space.      Those willing to pay the higher price for
   parking will also be more able to find parking in those locations.
          These functions and operations are performed by the Traffic Control
25        Personnel (4-11).
          Public Users
          Parking Public
          The parking public can access the CCI (4-2) in a number of ways as
   describer below.    The parking public uses an interface to find and/or pay for
30 parking in a space.
          In-Car Navigation Systems
          Multiple services exist that direct drivers to requested locations and places
   of commerce.       Navigation systems often offer suggestions for restaurants,

                                           33
   shopping areas or other resources.      Many such services provide directions to
   those locations by use of a geographical information system.      Because the CCI
   (4-2) contains geographical coordinates for parking spaces, the location of
   available spaces can be provided to users either close to the user's current
 5 location or a specific destination.  Such systems reduce or eliminate the extra
   environmental impact that cruising for parking spaces creates.       Such cruising
   typically would expend larger amounts of fuel and generate exhaust levels much
   higher than situation in which drivers are directed to open spaces. It also gives
   drivers an accurate perspective of parking availability. Drivers who may normally
10 be discouraged to visit merchants in a certain location because of a perceived
   parking shortage would be able to find open spaces in that vicinity more easily.
   With greater customer access to locations, merchants in that area would
   experience greater sales opportunities. This increase creates an economic lift for
   the entire community.
15         Cell Phone
           Technologies currently exist to allow users to pay for parking over the
   phone. This solves the problem of paying for time without the need to carry small
   change. However, such systems put a strain on enforcement efforts. The CCI
   (4-2) gives such systems a means by which time may be displayed on the
20 electronic parking meters.
           A user dials-up a telephone number and provide the parking space number
   for which they wish to purchase time. The user also provides the amount of time
   he wished to purchase and a payment source such as a credit card. The CCI (4
   2) then issues a command to the specified meter to display the appropriate
25 amount of time so enforcement officers enforce the meters in a traditional way.
   This is the function of the Enforcement Personnel (4-3).
           Internet
           Public parkers can also access the CCI (4-2) through a public facing web
   page to plan trips. The user submits one or more destinations and an expected
30 arrival time. Using a combination of current and historical usage data, the logic
   core (7-6) determines a parking locale near the destinations which is most likely
   to be available. The CCI (4-2) then allows the user to determine the time limits
   and costs of parking at the suggested locations. With this information, the driver

                                            34
   can drive directly to the location and not spend time searching the area for
   available parking spaces. This saves the driver time, reduces traffic congestion
   and saves fuel.
           Users can also reserve spaces.       The user reserves the space either
 5 directly or through a third party. The reservation is passed to the CCI (4-2) which
   then sends a signal to the electronic meter at the reserved parking space. The
   meter then displays an indicator that either the space is reserved or otherwise not
   available for parking. When the driver arrives at the space, he identifies himself
   either by dialing a number on a cell phone and entering a reservation code or by
10 connecting an electronic identification device into the meter. Such identification
   devices could be a magnetic stripe card, Smart Card or RFID card. This process
   would unlock the meter and allow the driver to purchase time at the meter.
           The internet could also allow the driver to purchase time on the parking
   meter in a similar fashion that a cell phone could be used.       The driver would
15 provide the space number and amount of time to be purchased through a
   website. The CCI (4-2) would accept this request and issue a command to the
   associated parking meter to display the appropriate amount of time.          These
   operations are represented by the component Public Parking (4-13).
           Merchants
20         Merchants access the CCI (4-2) through a similar web page interface as
   drivers might use. On this interface, merchants help direct customers to available
   parking as a customer service. As a further service, merchants pay for all or part
   of the customer's parking cost through the website as well. The customer tells
   the merchant what space they parked in upon entering the store and the
25 merchant could purchase time on the driver's behalf. The CCI (4-2) then instructs
   the meter located at that space to add the specified amount of time to the display.
   These functions are provided in the Parking Public (4-13) component.
           3 rd Party Users
           Towing Contractors
30         Many cities use towing or "booting" of vehicle to impound vehicles
   belonging to individuals consistently violating parking regulations and then
   refusing to pay the fines they occur. Additionally, cities often tow vehicles for
   which taxes have not been paid. This process requires the identification of such

                                               35
   vehicles by enforcement personnel, the coordination with towing contractors and
   the direction of the towing authority to the proper location.
           The report of each citation written is communicated to the CCI (4-2) in near
   real time. The logic core (7-6) can then analyze the citation details and compare
 5 it to the citation database and determine if a given vehicle is a towing or booting
   candidate.     If so, the appropriate personnel are notified of the vehicle and its
   location. The vehicle can then be impounded without any added intervention on
   behalf of the parking enforcement officer.
           These functions are performed in conjunction with the logic core (4-22) and
10 the Enforcement Personnel (4-3).
           Alternative Payment Clearing Houses
           Many types of payment alternatives to coins have been introduced for
   payment of parking. These payment options are often difficult or impossible to
   implement as the information regarding the payments made must be collected
15 from the individual spaces.       The communications backbone to the CCI (4-2)
   eliminates the difficulty of collecting such information.       Alternative Payment
   Clearing Houses (4-24) accesses the CCI (4-2) and requests the information
   regarding the payments made. The CCI (4-2) then queries the meters for that
   information, compiles it and passes it on to the payment clearers in the
20 Alternative Payment Clearing Houses (4-14) and in the format required by those
   systems.
            Citation Collection Agencies
            In order to collect past due citations, many parking authorities employ third
   parties to find offenders and collect the past due fines. Such agencies access the
25 CCI (4-2) to track up to date information on violation details, payment status and
   age. Additionally, the CCI (4-2) formats the data for export to the agency's own
   systems. These functions are also performed in the Alternative Payment Clearing
   Houses (4-14).
           Methodologies
30         The integrated parking management solution described by this invention
   allows parking managers to solve the problems related to the fair distribution of
   parking to the general public. The integration of these multiple systems in near
   real time addresses the short-comings of previous methods and technologies.

                                            36
          Near Real-Time Updates
          The primary      purpose of the invention is the use of near real time
   communication of parking events to        a Central Command and Control Logic
   Center (5-2) which then analyzes it and displays it so end users, such as Remote
 5 Assets 1, 2 and 3 and DB1, DB2 and DB3 make use of it as they wish .. This
   Central Command and Control Logic Center (5-3) stores the information it
   receives, but also issues alerts for action when needed. The timely delivery of
   information is essential in realizing benefits of efficient management of remote
   assets and personnel.     Due to the diverse nature of devices and systems, the
10 Central Command and Control Logic Center (5-3) must be able to communicate
   using multiple technologies and protocols.
          Whenever      remote   assets are integrated      into a   network,   wireless
   technologies have the benefit of limited amounts of infrastructure to be installed to
   enable communications.      This, however, means that the devices must be self
15 powered.      Power consumption can be managed.            Part of managing is the
   selective timing of communications.     When status changing events occur, any
   one or all of the Remote Assets 1, 2 and 3 initiates communication with the
   Central Command and Control Logic Center (5-3) passing the change of status
   as well as any additional stored information. This assures complete transmission
20 of data from the Remote Assets 1, 2 and 3 with the minimal number of
   transmissions needed to keep asset status completely up to date.
          Electronic record keeping on the part of personnel completes the loop of
   information to the CCI (4-2) historical reference and review.        It also updates
   inventory levels so that supporting agencies such as purchasing can ensure
25 availability of needed parts and personnel.
          Need-Based Response
          Current parking operations rely on regular routes to visit each space so
   that problems can be identified and fixed. This method is inefficient and results in
   loss of both revenues and manageability for the parking system.
30        With the integration of these systems, personnel and equipment can be
   deployed to locations where they are needed. Because effort does not need to
   be invested in finding spaces in need of maintenance or enforcement attention,
   each worker can maintain or enforce more spaces at one time. In addition, the

                                              37
   needed action can be taken for each issue observed in less time. This means
   malfunctioning assets will be out of order for less time. Because of this, they can
   return to operation and availability for use more quickly.
           Automated Route Generation
 5          In situations where the deployment of personnel and equipment can not be
   efficiently accomplished, geographically co-located groups of meters can be
   identified for attention.   Workers can then be deployed to the location of that
   group of meters.
           An example of such a deployment is that of meter collections.        When
10 geographically co-located meters have collected coins nearing the capacity of the
   collection canisters, they can be grouped together and an order issued for their
   collection.     Each group's average canister volume usage can then be ranked.
   The ranking determines the urgency with which each group meters should be
   collected. Workers can then be deployed to those groups in most urgent need of
15 collection.
           Logic Core Updates and User Configuration
           The invention uses a combination of pre-defined as well as customized
   instructions entered by authorized users to determine how the logic core reacts to
   the receipt of event notifications and user queries.
20         The CCI (4-2) provides a Communications Interface Layer (7-7) which
   allows users to define what events are to automatically trigger notification of in
   field personnel or delivery to supervisors for manual assignment to a specific
   work crew.
           Pre-defined instructions are used to maintain retrieval and calculation
25 processes to respond to user queries. Such instructions also process raw data
   streams to store historical records of events, create specialized record for
   maintenance, enforcement and collections as well as the calculation of standard
   statistics. The combination of pre-defined routines and user configuration allow
   the logic core to efficiently produce standard outputs while giving users flexibility
30 in operational flow.
           Therefore it is desired that the present invention not be limited to the
   specific embodiments describer herein, but that it include any and all such
   modifications and variations that would be apparent to those skilled in the art to

                                            38
  which the inventions directed.    It is our intention that the scope of the present
  invention should be determined by any and all such equivalents of the various
  terms and structure as recited in the following annexed claims.
5

                                          39
CLAIMS:
 1.    An integrated parking management system (IPMS) comprising:
       a number of parking meters each having data transmission capability;
       a plurality of collector nodes forming networked groups of collector nodes
for receiving data from selected groupings of the number of parking meters and
each of the groups of collector nodes receiving said data;
       a gateway receiving the data transmitted from the networked groups of
collector nodes and transmitting data to the collector nodes of the networked
groups of collector nodes;
       a central command and control logic center (CCLC) communicably coupled
to the gateway for receiving, and analyzing data from the gateway, and creating
actionable reports relating to the status and control of the parking meters, and
transmitting the actionable reports to end users of the IPMS at least through a
web portal; and
       the   CCLC     having    a  computerized     data  flow system     forming  a
communications interface (CI).
2.     The IPMS of claim 1, wherein the logic core has a programmable set of
rules to be applied to remote parking system components (RPSC) and a
communications interface layer (CIL).
3.     The IPMS of claim 2, wherein the CIL includes a presentation engine for
generating interactive documents configured for display in display devices.
4.     The IPMS of claim 3, wherein the CIL defines an exchange of data to the
RPSC, which exchange of data includes at least one of cellular, satellite or other
long range wireless connections to the remote parking system components.
5.     The IPMS of claim 2, wherein the CIL receives data to be transmitted and
at least one parking system component address embodied at least as an electric
sign in the interactive documents displayed on the display devices connected to
graphical reporting of at least parking policies displayed on the display devices.

                                         40
6.      The IPMS of claim 2, wherein at least some of the RPSC transmit data
through the CCI to the CCLC representing a status of IPMS and receive
instructions from the CCLC through the CCI for controlling the operation of the
 IPMS.
7.      The IPMS of claim 2, wherein the RPSC comprise at least one component
of a parking public, merchant services, traffic control services, emergency
services, administrative services, parking staff supervisors, parking policy makers,
controlling entity accounting personnel, alternative payment clearing houses,
citation collection agency, adjudication personnel, or towing services.
8.      The IPMS of claim 7, wherein the parking public component comprise at
least one of in-car navigation systems, cell phone, internet and merchants.
9.      The IPMS of claim 8, wherein the parking public component is configured
for reserving parking spaces within the IPMS.
 10.    The IPMS of claim 7, wherein the traffic control services component is
configured for adjusting a price for parking spaces within the IPMS based on
demand levels for the parking spaces.
 11.    The IPMS of claim 7, wherein the merchant services component is
configured for paying a parking cost for a user of parking spaces within the IPMS.
 12.    The IPMS of claim 7, wherein the parking policy makers component is
configured for adjusting policies based on historical usage and revenue patterns.
 13.    The IPMS of claim 2, wherein:
        the CCLC is configured to create actionable outputs for controlling the
RPSC in the IPMS; and
        the CCLC is in communication with the RPSC to receive feedback from the
RPSC to perform requested operations from the RPSC.

                                          41
 14.    The IPMS of claim 1, wherein the end users comprise at least one of a
parking enforcement entity, a parking manager, public users of the number of
parking meters, and a maintenance entity.
 15.    The IPMS of claim 1, wherein the number of parking meters comprise a
space monitoring and metering system (SMMS)             for providing information
specifying a status of respective parking spaces within the IPMS and transmitting
the information specifying the status of the parking spaces to the CCI and each of
the parking meters includes a communications means that provides two-way
transmission between the CCI and a respective parking meter.
 16.    The IPMS of claim 15, wherein the SMMS is configured for providing the
information specifying the status of the parking spaces within the IPMS to least
one of an enforcement service and maintenance service.
 17.    The IPMS of claim 1, wherein the communications within the IPMS is near
real time.
 18.    The IPMS of claim 1, wherein at least one collector node of the plurality of
collector nodes and the gateway are co-located.
 19.    The IPMS of claim 1, wherein at least one collector node of the plurality of
collector nodes and the gateway define a common collector node.
20.     The IPMS of claim 1, further comprising a command and control interface
(CCI) including a logic core.
21.     An integrated parking management system (IPMS) comprising:
        a number of parking meters each having data transmission capability;
        a plurality of collector nodes forming networked groups of collector nodes
for receiving data from selected groupings of the number of parking meters and
each of the groups of collector nodes receiving said data;

                                         42
        a gateway receiving the data transmitted from the networked groups of
collector nodes and transmitting data to collector nodes of the networked groups
of collector nodes;
        a central command and control logic center (CCLC) communicably coupled
to the gateway for receiving information from the collector nodes and sending
instructions to the collector nodes, and analyzing data from the collector nodes,
and creating actionable reports relating to the status and control of the parking
meters, and transmitting the actionable reports to end users of the IPMS at least
through a web portal;
        where the CCLC is disposed in at least one of the gateway and one or
more of the collector nodes.
22.     The IPMS of claim 21, wherein the number of parking meters comprise a
space monitoring and metering system (SMMS)             for providing information
specifying a status of respective parking spaces within the IPMS and transmitting
the information specifying the status of the parking spaces to the CCI and each of
the parking meters includes a communications means that provides two-way
transmission between the CCI and a respective parking meter.
23.     The IPMS of claim 22, wherein the SMMS is configured for providing the
information specifying the status of the parking spaces within the IPMS to least
one of an enforcement service and maintenance service.
24.     The IPMS of claim 21, wherein the communications within the IPMS is
near real time.
25.     The IPMS of claim 21, wherein at least one collector node of the plurality of
collector nodes and the gateway are co-located.
26.     The IPMS of claim 21, wherein at least one collector node of the plurality of
collector nodes and the gateway define a common collector node.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/13

