                                          Abstract
Mogo is a transparent, pressure free, automated web and app based environment allowing a
consumer to anonymously complete the process of purchasing a new or used motor vehicle
and sell their existing vehicle simultaneously within their selected region/s throughout the
world. Mogo uses location recognition in order to supply responses from designated areas
which are determined by the consumer. Mogo collects, manages, collates, and has the
ability to distribute data packets on industry statistics. Mogo has automated invoicing and
debtor control systems which require no manual input.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Mogo is a transparent, pressure free, automated web and app based environment allowing a
consumer to anonymously complete the process of purchasing a new or used motor vehicle and sell
their existing vehicle simultaneously within their selected region/s throughout the world.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

* Mogo allows a consumer to anonymously find a new, demonstrator, or used vehicle in their
  selected region/s throughout the world.
* Mogo allows a consumer to anonymously offer their existing vehicle (trade-in) for sale to
  multiple licensed dealerships simultaneously.
* Mogo allows a consumer to converse with both sellers and buyers anonymously in real time
  through the platform's instant messaging system.
* Mogo is an anonymous single blind system which allows a consumer to know the contact
  details and location of both buyers and sellers with whom they are conversing.
" Mogo is a visual based online vehicle selection system which allows the consumer to upload
  photos and details of their existing vehicle (trade-in) within the same process of searching
  for their next purchase of a new, demonstrator, or used motor vehicle.
* Mogo uses location recognition in order to supply responses from designated areas which
  are determined by the consumer.
" Mogo collects, manages, collates, and has the ability to distribute data packets on industry
  statistics.
. Mogo has automated invoicing and debtor control systems which require no manual input.

