                                                           ABSTRACT
   The       inventions               provides             for       a      system           for       electric            power
   production               from        wind         (50)       comprising                a     glider            (10),      said
 5 glider            (10)        having           an       airfoil               (14),          on-board             steering
   means          (20,        22,      24)       for      pitching,                rolling            and       yawing         the
   glider          (10)        when airborne,                   a   flight           control means                    (64)      for
   operation               of      the        steering              means            (20,         22,         24),       and       a
   connection               means          for        a    tether             (44),         the        system          further
10 comprising               a ground            station            (40),         said ground                 station          (40)
   comprising                a    reel         (42)        for       the        tether            (44),         a    rotating
   electrical               machine           (46)       connected               to     the       reel         (42),       and     a
   ground           station            control           means             (66)       for        operation              of     the
   reel         (42)       and       the       rotating             electrical                 machine             (46),       and
15 the      system           further          comprising                a    master           control           means         (62)
   for      operation               of     the        system          in      at      least          two       alternative
   operation              modes,           wherein            a     first           operation               mode        of     the
   system          is     provided            for       electric             power          production               with      the
   rotating             electrical               machine             (46)         from        a     rotation            of     the
20 reel         (42)      induced           by      reeling            out       the       tether            (44)      using       a
   lift        force        generated              upon       exposure              of     the       airfoil           (14)      of
   the        airborne             glider            (10)        to        wind         (50),          and        wherein          a
   second operation mode                            of the          system is provided for                               system
   recovery              by       driving             the        reel           (42)         with          the       rotating
25 electrical                machine            (46),          thereby             reeling             in       the      tether
    (44)       onto        the       reel         (42) .        The        invention               further           provides
   for      a    method          for      operation              of      a    system          for       electric           power
   production               from wind              (50),         for       a   glider            (10)       for      a   system
   according              to     the       invention              and        for      use        of      a    glider          (10)
30 for production of electric power form wind.

             1/3
                          14      34
                       20                 10
                 36
24    22       3
                            12    18   32
  216     12
       20
                                    40
                    44
  Fig.1                                   46
                               42

                                      -1
 5
10
   System and method for airborne wind energy production
15 Description
   The invention relates to a system for electric power production from
   wind. The invention further relates to a method for operation of a
   system for electric power production from wind. The invention also
20 relates to a glider for a system for production power from wind and
   to the use of a glider for production of electric power from wind.
   The production of electric power from wind is generally accom
   plished by airfoils or structures with an aerodynamic profile, which
25 produce lift forces upon exposure to wind. Thereby, energy is ex
   tracted from the wind, which can be converted into electricity, for
   example by exploring said lift forces to drive an electrical generator.
   Well known wind turbines for instance comprise a rotor with aerody
   namically profiled rotor blades, wherein the lift forces of the rotor
30 blades cause the rotor to turn. The rotor is mounted to an electrical
   generator, which is for example located on top of a tower, for pro
   duction of electricity.

                                      -2
   In order to explore wind energy resources at altitudes above few
   hundred meters over ground, where the average wind is stronger
   and steadier due to less disturbing interaction with the earth's sur
 5 face, it has been proposed to use airborne airfoils. These concepts
   are often referred to as airborne wind energy or airborne wind ener
   gy production.
   US 6 254 034 B1     discloses a tethered kite travelling a closed cycle.
10 While the kite travels downwind, it is driven by the wind and the
   tether is pulled from a windlass drum that is rotationally connected
   to the rotor of an electrical generator. The rotor of the generator
   spins and produces energy. The cycle is completed by travelling the
   kite upwind back to the starting point. Net energy is gained when
1s the energy generated during downwind travel of the kite exceeds
   the energy required for the upwind return.
   One option for a low consumption of energy at the upwind return is
   to cause the wind to blow the kite to a high altitude at the end of the
20 downwind travel. The kite then returns in an upwind descent. How
   ever, this method suffers from a large dead time, because no ener
   gy is generated during rise and return of the kite. Therefore, the in
   tegrated energy yield is relatively poor.
25 Another option is to alter the angle of attack or the equivalent sup
   porting plane surface of the kite at the end of the downwind travel,
   thereby reducing the pull of the kite on the tether. The kite is now
   pulled back by switching the generator to motor operation, wherein
   due to the reduced pull less energy is consumed than has been
30 produced during the preceding downwind travel. Here, a fraction of
   the generated energy has to be spent in the interest of safety, be
   cause controllable flight of the kite requires a certain amount of pull

                                       -3
   on the tether.
   The underlying problem of the invention is to provide for electric
   power production from wind using an airborne airfoil, wherein in par
 5 ticular the integrated energy yield and/or the operational safety are
   to be improved with respect to the prior art described above.
   According to the invention, this problem is solved by a system for
   electric power production from wind comprising a glider, said glider
10 having an airfoil, on-board steering means for pitching, rolling and
   yawing the glider when airborne, a flight control means for operation
   of the steering means, and a connection means for a tether, the sys
   tem further comprising a ground station, said ground station com
   prising a reel for the tether, a rotating electrical machine connected
15 to the reel, and a ground station control means for operation of the
   reel and the rotating electrical machine, and the system further
   comprising a master control means for operation of the system in at
   least two alternative operation modes, wherein a first operation
   mode of the system is provided for electric power production with
20 the rotating electrical machine from a rotation of the reel induced by
   reeling out the tether using a lift force generated upon exposure of
   the airfoil of the airborne glider to wind, and wherein a second oper
   ation mode of the system is provided for system recovery by driving
   the reel with the rotating electrical machine, thereby reeling in the
25 tether onto the reel.
   A glider or sailplane in terms of the invention in particular is a fixed
   wing aircraft, wherein on-board steering means allow for full flight
   manoeuvrability of the glider around its longitudinal axis, its lateral
30 axis and its vertical axis. In terms of the invention, these three prin
   ciple axes form a Cartesian coordinate system, wherein the origin of
   said coordinate system is defined to be at the centre of gravity of

                                        -4
   the glider.
   In general terms, with reference to straight and level flight, the lon
   gitudinal axis relates to the direction of motion, the vertical axis re
 5 lates to the direction of lift and the lateral axis is essential horizontal
   to complete a Cartesian coordinate system.
   The glider for instance comprises a fuselage and a main wing,
   wherein the main wing constitutes or comprises an airfoil. In this
10 configuration, the longitudinal axis is essential parallel to the fuse
   lage, the lateral axis is essential parallel to the main wing and the
   vertical axis is perpendicular to both the longitudinal and the lateral
   axis. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the glider can have
   another airplane configuration, for instance an all-wing aircraft, with
15 appropriate definitions of the principle axes.
   In terms of the invention, rolling refers to a rotation of the glider
   around its longitudinal axis, pitching refers to a rotation of the glider
   around its lateral axis and yawing refers to a rotation of the glider
20 around its vertical axis.
   Steering means of the glider for instance comprise control surfaces
   to aerodynamically exert torque on the glider around one or more of
   the glider's principle axes. These control surfaces for instance com
25 prise so called ailerons to mainly induce rolling, so called elevators
   to mainly induce pitching, and a so called rudder to mainly induce
   yawing. However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that other
   control surfaces known in aviation technology are also appropriate
   steering means in terms of the invention. In particular, a control sur
30 face can induce a rotation around an arbitrary axis which does not
   correspond to one of the principle axes of the glider.

                                      -5
   Besides control surfaces, the steering means of the glider for in
   stance further comprise actuators, such as electric motors or hy
   draulic systems with pumps and cylinders, for moving the control
   surfaces. These actuators are for instance powered by an on-board
 5 power source, such as a battery.
   A glider provides the advantage of low aerodynamic resistance or
   drag and a high aerodynamic lift due to the fixed wing with rigid
   aerodynamic profile or airfoil, respectively. This is in particular ben
10 eficial, because the energy effectively extracted from the wind
   strongly depends on lift and drag, in particular on the so called lift
   over-drag-ratio.
   Since both the glider and the tether contribute to the overall drag, it
15 is further preferred when the tether has a drag-optimized shape or
   structure. This can for instance be a helical structure, which turned
   out to have a lower resistance or drag than a tether with a circular
   cross section.
20 Another advantage of a glider is that the flight of the glider is stable
   even without any load on the tether, while a kite requires a certain
   pull on the tether for stable flight. Therefore, the invention allows for
   zero tether load and correspondingly minimum energy consumption
   during system recovery in the second operation mode.
25
   The flight of the glider is controllable and stable by itself, in particu
   lar without any connection to the ground. Even in case of system
   failures, for example when the generator load on the reel is lost or
   the tether breaks, the glider can be landed safely. The system ac
30 cording to the invention thus provides for particularly effective and
   safe production of electric power from wind energy.

                                      -6
   It is preferred that the flight control means provides for a first flight
   control mode for automated flight operation and for a second flight
   control mode for manual operation, in particular via a remote control
 5 unit with wired or wireless connection to the flight control means.
   For example, the first flight control mode provides for automated
   operation with optimised energy yield, wherein the second flight
   control mode allows for manual intervention during maintenance and
   testing of the system as well as for emergency interventions in the
10 case of failures. This way, the operation is simplified and the safety
   in operation is further enhanced.
   Another preferred embodiment of the invention is characterized in
   that the system, in particular the glider, further comprises an air
15 speed sensor for determining an air speed of the glider. In terms of
   the invention, air speed refers to the speed of movement or velocity,
   respectively, of the glider with respect to the surrounding air. In par
   ticular due to the presence of wind, the air speed in general differs
   from the ground speed of the glider, i.e. the velocity of the glider
20 relative to the ground. The air speed sensor preferably is a direc
   tional sensor providing both the magnitude and the direction of the
   glider's air speed.
    Knowledge about the air speed of the glider is in particular benefi
25 cial for optimized flight control, in particular for maximising the lift
   force and the averaged energy yield. For best precision of the air
   speed measurement, the air speed sensor is preferably arranged at
   the glider. Alternatively, the air speed sensor can also be positioned
   at the tether, wherein the position of the air speed sensor at the
30 tether is preferably close to the connection between the tether and
   the glider.

                                     -7
   In an especially preferred embodiment of the invention, the glider
   comprises a control unit incorporating both the flight control means
   of the glider and the master control means of the system. This way,
   the connection between the flight control means and the master
 5 control means is particularly short in a physical sense, making it fast
   and robust against distortion and failure. In particular, fast feedback
   between the flight operations, which is rather complex and influ
   enced by eventually fast changing wind conditions, and the opera
   tion of the system as a whole is or can be established.
10
   Another preferred embodiment of the invention is characterized in
   that the system, in particular the ground station, further comprises a
   tension sensor for determining a tension of the tether. The tension
   of the tether is a good indicator for the overall system load and can
15 for instance be used as an input parameter for controlled reeling out
   of the tether. The tension sensor is for example arranged at the
   ground station or integrated into the tether, wherein the tension
   sensor preferably is or can be connected to the ground station con
   trol means.
20
   Said ground station control means is preferably designed for retain
   ing a predetermined target tension of the tether, in particular during
   reeling out the tether. By this measure, negative impact of the load,
   which is exerted on the glider via the tether, on the glider flight be
25 haviour can be minimized.
   The ground station control means preferably is designed for retain
   ing a predetermined reel speed, in particular during reeling in the
   tether. In terms of the invention, reel speed refers to the length of
30 tether being reeled in or reeled out in a given amount of time. Thus,
   the reel speed is in particular correlated with the rotational velocity
   of the rotating reel.

                                       -8
   Retaining a predetermined reel speed, which is for instance accom
   plished by retaining a predetermined target rotational velocity of the
   reel, is very effective in reducing sagging of the tether when the lift
 5 force or load exerted on the tether is low.
   It is further preferred that the tether comprises a power transmission
   line between the glider and the ground station. This way, the various
   systems of the glider, such as electronics of the flight control means
10 or actuators of the flight control means, are powered from the
   ground. For emergency cases, where the power connection between
   the ground and the glider may be broken, the glider, however, can
   comprise a relatively low capacity power source allowing for control
   and safe landing of the glider.
15
   The tether preferably comprises a data transmission line between
   the glider and the ground station, for instance for communication
   between the flight control means, the ground station control means
   and/or the main control means. Additional, alternative or redundant
20 communication channels can for instance be realized by wireless
   transmission.
   The problem of the invention is further solved by a method for oper
   ation of a system for electric power production from wind, said sys
25 tem comprising a glider connected to a tether and a ground station
   with a reel for the tether, wherein said system is operated alternate
   ly in a first operation mode for power production and a second oper
   ation mode for system recovery, wherein the first operation mode
   comprises
30
   -       steering the glider to follow a first flight pattern, thereby gen
           erating a lift force by means of an airfoil of the glider being

                                        -9
          exposed to the wind,
   -      pulling the tether by means of said lift force and reeling out
          the tether, thereby inducing a rotation of the reel, and
 5
   -      converting the rotation of the reel into electric power, in par
          ticular by means of a rotating electrical machine connected to
          the reel,
10 wherein the second operation mode comprises
   -      steering the glider to follow a second flight pattern for reduc
          ing the pull on the tether and
15 -      reeling in the tether onto the reel by driving the reel, in partic
          ular by means of said rotating electrical machine connected to
          the reel.
   The integrated energy yield, i.e. the amount of electric power pro
20 duced at given wind conditions in certain amount of time, is particu
   larly optimized when the lift force generated by the airfoil is maxim
   ized during operation of the system in the first operation mode and
   minimized during operation in the second operation mode. The en
   ergy yield is further increased when the time required for reeling in
25 the tether, that is the minimum duration for the system to be operat
   ed in the second operation mode, where no electric power is pro
   duced, is as short as possible.
   Both aspects are optimized by the invention due to the beneficial
30 features of the glider mentioned already above. In particular, the
   manoeuvrability of a glider allows for a first flight pattern, which is in
   particular a high lift flight pattern, where the glider for instance flies

                                       -10
   downwind of the ground station across the wind along a flight path,
   which for instance resembles a circular or eight-shaped figure.
   Highest lift forces are generally achieved in fast cross-wind flight of
   the glider.
 5
   In the second flight pattern, which is in particular a low lift flight pat
   tern, the glider for instance is brought in a descent towards the
   ground station. Here, the pull on the tether is reduced and eventual
   ly brought to zero. This way, minimum energy is consumed for spin
10 ning the reel, while no energy is required to pull the glider towards
   the ground station. At the same time, the speed of the glider to
   wards the ground station is maximized and the dead time, i.e. the
   time required for system recovery, is minimized.
15  Preferably, reeling out the tether is controlled to retain a target ten
   sion of the tether, which in particular is predetermined as a function
   of an air speed of the glider. The air speed of the glider in particular
    is the velocity of the airfoil relative to the air, and thus is an indica
   tion for the lift force generated by the airfoil. The target tension does
20  not have to be constant with time. For instance, the air speed, which
    is a vector quantity and has a magnitude as well as a directional
   component, will change over the course of the flight pattern with
   varying angle between direction of flight of the glider and the wind
   direction. Also, changes in the wind conditions result in air speed
25 differences.
    It is also preferred that reeling in the tether is controlled to retain a
   target reel speed, which in particular is predetermined as a function
   of an air speed of the glider. However, the target reel speed can al
30 so be predetermined from other observables, for instance a ground
   speed of the glider.

                                    - 11
   The underlying problem of the invention is further solved by a glider
   for a system for electric power production from wind energy accord
   ing to the invention comprising an airfoil for generating a lift force
   upon exposure of the airfoil to wind, an on-board steering means for
 5 pitching, rolling and yawing the glider when airborne, a flight control
   means for operation of the steering means and a connection means
   for a tether, wherein the glider comprises an on-board control unit
   incorporating the flight control means and a master control means
   for the operation of the system in at least two alternative operation
10 modes.
   The object of the invention is also solved by use of a glider for pro
   duction of electric power from wind energy by means of a system
   according to the invention and/or by executing a method according
15 to the invention, said glider comprising an airfoil for generating a lift
   force upon exposure of the airfoil to wind, an on-board steering
   means for pitching, rolling and yawing the glider when airborne, a
   flight control means for operation of the steering means and a con
   nection means for a tether, wherein said glider in particular is a
20 glider as described above.
   Further characteristics of the invention will become apparent from
   the description of the embodiments according to the invention to
   gether with the claims and the included drawings. Embodiments ac
25 cording to the invention can fulfill individual characteristics or a
   combination of several characteristics.
   According to the invention, with respect to a feature in particular or
   particularly means that the feature is an optional feature.
30
   The invention is described below, without restricting the general in
   tent of the invention, based on exemplary embodiments, wherein

                                      - 12
   reference is made expressly to the drawings with regard to the dis
   closure of all details according to the invention that are not ex
   plained in greater detail in the text. The drawings show in:
 5 Fig. 1       schematically a system according to the invention;
   Fig. 2a      schematically the operation of a system according to
                the invention in a first operation mode;
10 Fig. 2b      schematically the operation of a system according to
                the invention in a second operation mode; and
   Fig. 3       a block diagram for illustrating the control of a system
                according to the invention.
15
   In the drawings, the same or similar types of elements or respec
   tively corresponding parts are provided with the same reference
   numbers in order to prevent the elements from needing to be rein
   troduced.
20
   Fig. 1 shows an exemplary embodiment of a system for electric
   power production from wind according to the invention.
   The airborne or potentially airborne part of the system comprises a
25 glider 10, which in the embodiment depicted in fig. 1 is designed to
   be a fixed wing aircraft. The glider 10 comprises a fuselage 12, a
   main wing 14, a tailplane 16 and control surfaces 20, 22, 24. Also
   shown are the longitudinal axis 32, the lateral axis 34 and the verti
   cal axis 36, which meet at the centre of gravity 30 of the glider and
30 which constitute the intrinsic coordinate system of the glider.
   In the example shown, the fuselage 12 comprises a tube construct-

                                       -13
   ed from fiber reinforced composite material as mechanical backbone
   between the main wing 14 and the tailplane 16 and a nacelle for
   electronics, power source, sensors and the like, which is mounted in
   front of the main wing 14.
 5
   The main wing 14 can for instance be constructed from a single
   wing, as in the embodiment depicted in fig. 1. However, alternative
   designs, for instance with a separate main wing 14 on either side of
   the fuselage 12 are within the scope of the invention.
10
   In flight, the glider 10 is manoeuvred by control surfaces, which in
   the exemplary embodiment comprise ailerons 20 at either side of
   the main wing 12, as well as elevators 22 and a rudder 24 at the
   tailplane 16. The control surfaces 20, 22, 24 for instance are hinged
15 surfaces used to induce torque around the principle axes 32, 34, 36
   of the glider 10 by aerodynamic means.
   Torque around the longitudinal axis 32 is induced by means of the
   ailerons 20, which can be or are operated simultaneously and in op
20 posite directions. Here, opposite directions means that when the left
   aileron is moved upwards with respect to the main wing 14, the right
   aileron is moved downwards. By this, lift is enhanced on the right
   side of the main wing 14 and reduced on the left side of the main
   wing 14, causing a torque around the longitudinal axis 32. The re
25 suiting movement of the glider 10, a rotation around its longitudinal
   axis 32, is referred to as rolling.
   A rotation of the glider 10 around its lateral axis 34, which is re
   ferred to as pitching, is achieved by the elevators 22, which are
30 used to increase or decrease the lift at the tailplane, thereby induc
   ing a torque around the lateral axis 34.

                                      - 14
   Rotation of the glider 10 around its vertical axis 36, which is referred
   to as yawing, is induced by the rudder 24.
   The glider 10 is connected to the ground station 40 via a tether 44,
 5 which is attached to or connected with the glider 10 at a connection
   means which is preferably arranged close to the centre of gravity 30
   of the glider 10. This way, varying loads on the tether 44 do not sig
   nificantly impair the balance of the glider 10 in flight.
10 At the ground station 40, excess length of the tether 44 is stored on
   a reel 42, which is connected to a rotating electrical machine 46.
   The rotation electrical machine 46 is connected to an electricity
   storage and/or distribution system (not shown) such as a power
   grid, a transformer station or a large scale energy reservoir. Those
15 skilled in the art will appreciate that the power storage and/or distri
   bution system can be any device or system capable of receiving
   electricity from and delivering electricity to the rotating electrical
   machine.
20 The system shown in fig. 1 is alternately operated in a first opera
   tion mode for production of electric power, illustrated in fig. 2a, and
   a second operation mode for system recovery, illustrated in fig. 2b.
    In the first operation mode, which in particular is an energy produc
25 tion operation mode, the glider 10 is steered to follow a high lift
   flight pattern indicated by line 52 downwind of the ground station 40.
   The direction of the wind is indicated by arrow 50. During cross
   wind flight, in particular fast cross-wind flight, the airfoil or the main
   wing 14, respectively, of the glider 10 generates a lift force much
30  larger than required to keep the glider 10 at a given altitude. As a
    consequence, the glider exerts a pull on the tether 44, which is cor
    related to the excess lift force.

                                     - 15
   The pull on the tether 44 is used for reeling out the tether 44 from
   the reel 42 in direction of arrow R, thereby inducing a rotation of the
   reel 42. The resulting torque, which in particular depends on the di
 5 ameter of the reel 42 and the force with which the tether 44 is
   pulled, is transmitted to the rotating electrical machine 46, where
   the mechanical energy is transformed to the electric power. Option
   ally, a gear box is arranged between the reel 42 and the rotating
   electrical machine 46, which is not shown in the figures for reasons
10 of simplicity.
   By controlling and influencing the rotational speed of the reel 42, for
   instance by an adjustable counter torque of the rotating electrical
   machine, the load on the tether 44 and on the glider 10, respective
1s ly, can be influenced.
   As long as the tether 44 is reeled out, the glider 10 flies away from
   the ground station 40. Keeping the system in the first operation
   mode thus is limited by the overall length of the tether 44.
20
   According to the invention, there is thus provided for a second op
   eration mode for system recovery, in particular for recovery of the
   tether. This second operation mode is illustrated in fig. 2b.
25  For recovery of the tether 44, i.e. for reeling in the tether 44 onto
   the reel 42, the rotating electrical machine 46 is operated as a mo
   tor rather than as a generator. The necessary power for instance is
   provided or delivered by the electricity storage and/or distribution
   system.
30
    In order to minimize the power consumption during system recovery,
   the pull on the tether 44 is reduced by steering the glider 10 to fol-

                                      - 16
   low a low lift flight pattern indicated by dashed line 54. This low lift
   flight pattern 54 for instance is a descent or a fast dive of the glider
   10 against the wind 50 towards the ground station 40. The low lift
   flight pattern 54 can also be an approach of the glider 10 towards
 5 the ground station 40 without loss in altitude, including a slight gain
   in altitude.
   As the glider 10 approaches the ground station 40, the free length of
   the tether 44 is shortened and the tether 44 is reeled in onto the
10 reel 42 as indicated by arrow R'.
   It is preferred that the pull on the tether 44 is as low as possible in
   order to minimize power consumption for reeling in the tether 44 and
   as fast as possible in order to minimize the dead time, i.e. the peri
15 od of time where the system does not produce electric power. These
   goals are preferably met by controlling reeling in the tether 44 to
   retain a target reel speed, which in particular depends on the veloci
   ty of the glider 10 approaching the ground station 40, which for in
   stance can be derived from an air speed of the glider 10.
20
   Fig. 3 shows a block diagram of an exemplary control scheme for
   the system described above.
   The control scheme provides for a modular design with a flight con
25 trol means 64, a ground station control means 66 and a master con
   trol means 62.
   The flight control means 64 is designed to control and/or regulate
   the devices and actuators associated to flight operation of the glider
30  10. For example, these include but are not limited to ailerons 20,
   elevators 22 and rudder 24 of the glider 10.

                                    -17
   The flight control means 64 for instance comprises algorithms and
   feedback loops for automated flight operation of the glider 10. It will
   be appreciated by those skilled in the art that there will be appropri
   ate sensors connected to the flight control means 64 for determining
 5 and monitoring the flight conditions, wherein an air speed sensor 18
   is shown in fig. 3 as one example.
   The ground station control means 66 has the purpose of controlling
   and/or regulating the components of the ground station 40, in par
10 ticular the reel 42 and the rotating electrical machine 46. It will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conversion of me
   chanic energy to electric power, i.e. the operation of the rotating
   electrical machine 46 as a generator, as well as reeling in the tether
   44, i.e. the operation of the rotating electrical machine 46 as a mo
15 tor, is also controlled and/or regulated by the ground station control
   means 66.
   Both the flight control means 64 and the ground station control
   means 66 in particular provide for different behaviour associated
20 with different operation modes of the system according to the inven
   tion. The operation mode of the system itself, in particular a first op
   eration mode for production of electric power and a second opera
   tion mode for system recovery, is controlled and/or regulated by a
   master control means 62. In particular, the master control means 62
25 preferably comprises for automated decision making and switching
   between one operation mode and the other.
   As indicated by the arrows in fig. 3, the flight control means 64, the
   ground station control means 66 and the master control means 62
30 are connected to each other via bi-directional communication chan
   nels, wherein in particular the flight control means 64 and the
   ground station control means 66 communicate status information

                                      -18
   about the glider 10 or the ground station 40, respectively, to the
   master control means 62. In reverse, the master control means 62
   communicates the current operation mode of the system to both the
   flight control means 64 and the ground station control means 66,
 5 wherein control and/or regulation of the glider 10 and the ground
   station 40 is performed independently by the flight control means 64
   and the ground station control means 66, respectively.
   The modular design of the control scheme shown in fig. 3 has the
10 advantage that operational safety of the glider 10 and the ground
   station 40, which are normally separated by several hundred me
   ters, is guaranteed individually even in the case of signal delays,
   signal distortions and communication channel failures.
15 It does not contradict the modular approach when the master control
   means 62 is arranged in close proximity to either the flight control
   means 64 or the ground station control means 66. In particular, the
   master control means 62 and the flight control means 64 are prefer
   ably both arranged on board the glider 10 and can in particular be
20 combined into a single control unit.
   While the ground station 40 and the ground station control means
   66, which preferably are physically located at or close to the ground
   station 40, are easily accessible for maintenance and testing, the
25 airborne glider 10 is not. It is therefore desirable to have the possi
   bility to intervene in the control, in particular the flight control, of the
   glider 10. For this purpose, the flight control means 64 allow for ex
   ternal access to the flight control via a remote control unit 68, which
   is preferably connected to the flight control means 64 via a wireless
30 communication channel.
   All named characteristics, including those taken from the drawings

                                    -19
   alone, and individual characteristics, which are disclosed in combi
   nation with other characteristics, are considered alone and in com
   bination as important to the invention. Embodiments according to
   the invention can be fulfilled through individual characteristics or a
 5 combination of several characteristics.
10

                                      -20
   List of References
             10     glider
             12     fuselage
 5            14    main wing
              16    tailplane
              18    air speed sensor
             20     aileron
             22     elevator
10           24     rudder
             30     centre of gravity
             32     longitudinal axis
             34     lateral axis
             36     vertical axis
15           40     ground station
             42     reel
             44     tether
             46     rotating electrical machine
             48     tension sensor
20           50     wind
             52     high lift flight pattern
             54     low lift flight pattern
             62     master control means
             64     flight control means
25           66     ground station control means
             68     remote control unit
30

                                    - 21
 5
10
   System and method for airborne wind energy production
15 Claims
   1.    System for electric power production from wind (50) compris
         ing a glider (10), said glider (10) having an airfoil (14), on
         board steering means (20, 22, 24) for pitching, rolling and
20       yawing the glider (10) when airborne, a flight control means
         (64) for operation of the steering means (20, 22, 24), and a
         connection means for a tether (44), the system further com
         prising a ground station (40), said ground station (40) com
         prising a reel (42) for the tether (44), a rotating electrical ma
25       chine (46) connected to the reel (42), and a ground station
         control means (66) for operation of the reel (42) and the rotat
         ing electrical machine (46), and the system further comprising
         a master control means (62) for operation of the system in at
         least two alternative operation modes, wherein a first opera
30       tion mode of the system is provided for electric power produc
         tion with the rotating electrical machine (46) from a rotation of
         the reel (42) induced by reeling out the tether (44) using a lift

                                 - 22
      force generated upon exposure of the airfoil (14) of the air
      borne glider (10) to wind (50), and wherein a second opera
      tion mode of the system is provided for system recovery by
      driving the reel (42) with the rotating electrical machine (46),
 5    thereby reeling in the tether (44) onto the reel (42).
   2. System according to claim 1, characterized in that the flight
      control means (64) provides for a first flight control mode for
      automated flight operation and for a second flight control
10    mode for manual operation, in particular via a remote control
      unit (68) with wired or wireless connection to the flight control
      means (64).
   3. System according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the
15    system, in particular the glider (10), further comprises an air
      speed sensor (18) for determining an air speed of the glider
      (10).
   4. System according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized
20    in that the glider (10) comprises a control unit incorporating
      both the flight control means (64) and the master control
      means (62).
   5. System according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized
25    in that the system, in particular the ground station (40), fur
      ther comprises a tension sensor (48) for determining a ten
      sion of the tether (44).
   6. System according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized
30    in that the ground station control means (66) is designed for
      retaining a predetermined target tension of the tether (44), in
      particular during reeling out the tether (44).

                                   - 23
   7. System according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterized
      in that the ground station control means (66) is designed for
      retaining a predetermined target reel speed, in particular dur
 5    ing reeling in the tether (44).
   8. System according to any one of claims 1 to 7, characterized
      in that the tether (44) comprises a power transmission line
      and/or a data transmission line between the glider (10) and
10    the ground station (40).
   9. Method for operation of a system for electric power production
      from wind (50), said system comprising a glider (10) connect
      ed to a tether (44) and a ground station (40) with a reel (42)
15    for the tether (44), wherein said system is operated alternate
      ly in a first operation mode for power production and a second
      operation mode for system recovery, wherein the first opera
      tion mode comprises
20    -      steering the glider (10) to follow a first flight pattern
              (52), thereby generating a lift force by means of an air
             foil (14) of the glider (10) being exposed to the wind
              (50),
25    -       pulling the tether (44) by means of said lift force and
              reeling out the tether (44), thereby inducing a rotation
              of the reel (42), and
      -       converting the rotation of the reel (42) into electric
30            power, in particular by means of a rotating electrical
              machine (46) connected to the reel (42),

                                   - 24
       wherein the second operation mode comprises
       -      steering the glider (10) to follow a second flight pattern
              (54) for reduced pull on the tether (44) and
 5
       -      reeling in the tether (44) onto the reel (42) by driving
              the reel, in particular by means of said rotating electri
              cal machine (46) connected to the reel (42).
10 10. Method according to claim 9, characterized in that reeling out
       the tether (44) is controlled to retain a target tension of the
       tether (44), which in particular is predetermined as a function
       of an air speed of the glider (10).
15 11. Method according to claims 9 or 10, characterized in that reel
       ing in the tether (44) is controlled to retain a target reel
       speed, which in particular is predetermined as a function of
       an air speed of the glider (10).
20 12. Glider (10) for a system according to any one of claims 1 to 8,
       comprising an airfoil (14) for generating a lift force upon ex
       posure of the airfoil (14) to wind (50), on-board steering
       means (20, 22, 24) for pitching, rolling and yawing the glider
       (10) when airborne, a flight control means (64) for operation
25     of the steering means (20, 22, 24) and a connection means
       for a tether (44), wherein the glider (10) comprises an on
       board control unit incorporating the flight control means (64)
       and a master control means (62) for the operation of the sys
       tem in at least two alternative operation modes.
30
   13.  Use of a glider (10) for production of electric power from wind
       (50) by means of a system according to any one of claims 1 to

                               -25
   8 and/or by executing a method according to any one of
   claims 10 to 12, said glider (10) comprising an airfoil (14) for
   generating a lift force upon exposure of the airfoil (14) to wind
   (50), on-board steering means (20, 22, 24) for pitching, rolling
 5 and yawing the glider (10) when airborne, a flight control
   means (64) for operation of the steering means (20, 22, 24)
   and a connection means for a tether (44), wherein said glider
   (10) in particular is a glider (10) according to claim 12.
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
