ABSTRACT
A luer connection device comprising a housing including a side wall having an inside surface defining
a lumen with a central axis, a proximal end, and a distal end including a male luer tip within the
lumen having a passageway therethrough providing fluid communication between the proximal end
and the distal end; and a flow expansion channel disposed in the lumen tapering outward from the
wall of tubular housing and partially extending along a longitudinal axis from the distal end toward
the base opening for increasing mixing and flow through a circumferential dead space in the fluid
path distal to the male luer tip.

        4/8
Ln)
    000
            L-

                                                     I
                FLUSH ENHANCING MALE LUER TIP DESIGN FOR SYRINGES
                                    AND ANY LUER CONNECTOR
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5  [00011    An aspect of the invention relates generally to a luer connection device, and more
   particularly to a luer connection device a housing including a side wall having an inside
   surface defining a lumen with a central axis, a proximal end, and a distal end including a male
   luer tip within the lumen having a central flow diverter extending outwardly from the central
   axis to direct a fluid to a circumferential dead space distal to the male luer tip. Another aspect
10 of the invention relates a luer connection device having a flow expansion channel disposed in
   the lumen tapering outward from the wall of tubular housing and partially extending along a
   longitudinal axis from the tip opening toward the base opening for increasing mixing and flow
   through a circumferential dead space in the fluid path distal to the male luer tip. Yet another
   aspect of the invention relates a luer connection device having both a central flow diverter and
15 a flow expansion channel disposed within the lumen.
   BACKGROUND
    [00021    Vascular Access Devices (VADs) are commonly used therapeutic devices and
   include intravenous catheters, syringes, extension sets, stop cocks, tubing, high pressure
20 extension tubing, and needleless access devices. The operation of VADs is often compromised
   or completely prevented by the occurrence of thrombus formation. Thrombosis is the
   development of a blood clot within a vessel and/or vascular access device. If not properly
   maintained, VADs can become occluded. To ensure VADs are used properly and do not
   become occluded, standards of practice have been developed. These standards include a
25 cleaning procedure, which is commonly referred to as a flush procedure. The purpose of
   flushing is to clean the accumulated residue from dead-space located between male and female
   luer connections. The common flushing practice creates a turbulent flow during flushing to
   promote a "scrubbing" effect in the lumen and at the tip of the catheter.
    [0003]    The effectiveness of the flushing procedure in intravenous therapy is related to the
30 risk of microbial colonization and potential Catheter Related Bloodstream Infection (CRBSI).

   Standard male luer tip geometries result in a circumferential "dead space" in the fluid path
   distal to the male luer tip that is inherently difficult to flush. After standard flushing
   procedures, an excess amount of blood can be left in this difficult to flush region, thereby
   increasing the risk of microbial colonization. Thus, the greater the amount of blood and
 5 residue remaining in the catheter system, the higher the risk for infection and complications
   related to infection. Clinicians can attempt to improve flushing with pulsatile techniques that
   may encourage mixing and better flush results. Due to these inherent challenges, there is a
   need for a device that improves the outcome of a flush procedure by removing the blood and
   residue build up found in the circumferential "dead space".
10
   SUMMARY
    [0004]    Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a luer connection device
   including a housing having a side wall with an inside surface defining a lumen with a central
   axis, a proximal end, and a distal end including a male luer tip within the lumen having a
15 passageway therethrough providing fluid communication between the proximal end and the
   distal end. The male luer tip disposed within the lumen at or near the distal end including a
   central flow diverter extending outwardly from the central axis to direct a fluid to a
   circumferential dead space distal to the male luer tip.
    [0005]    In one or more embodiments, the luer connection device may also include at least
20 one flow expansion channel for increasing flow and mixing a fluid through a circumferential
   dead space in the fluid path distal to the male luer tip. The flow expansion channel can be
   configured to extend in a straight taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen. In one or
   more embodiments, the flow expansion channel may be configured to extend in a rotational
   taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen. The flow expansion channel can be located
25 upstream from the flow diverter.
    [0006]    The proximal end of the luer connection device can be integrally connected to a
   vascular access device.      The vascular access device may be a syringe, extension set,
   intravenous set, stop cock, tubing, high pressure extension tubing, or needleless access device.
   The luer connection device can be removably connected to a vascular access device.

                                                      3
    [0007]    In one or more embodiments, the central flow path diverter comprises a plurality of
   vanes. In one or more embodiments, the plurality of vanes may have a tapered leading edge
   and tapered tailing edge to minimize drag and reduce resistance. The tapered leading edge may
   be configured to create a smooth entrance of fluid and the tapered tailing edge is configured to
 5 create a sharp exit for producing turbulent fluid flow upon exiting the flow diverter.
    [0008]    In one or more embodiments., the plurality of vanes may be configured to extend
   straight outwardly from the central axis of the lumen to the side wall. In one variation, the
   plurality of vanes extend outwardly from the central axis of the lumen in a curved
   configuration. At least one edge of the plurality of vanes can have a ramped angled surface to
10 create a greater angle of incidence. The central flow path diverter can be configured in various
   shapes, for example., in a cross, rectangle, star, triangle, oval, spiral, twisting or helical
   formation.
    [00091    An aspect invention pertains to a luer connection device including a housing having
   a side wall with an inside surface defining a lumen, a proximal end and a distal end including a
15 distal wall with an elongate male luer tip extending in a distal direction therefrom having a
   passageway therethrough providing fluid communication between the proximal end and the
   distal end; and a flow expansion channel being disposed in the lumen tapering outward from
   the wall of tubular housing and partially extending along a longitudinal axis from the tip
   opening toward the base opening for increasing mixing and flow through a circumferential
20 dead space in the fluid path distal to the male luer tip.
    [0010]    The proximal end can be integrally connected to a vascular access device.         The
   vascular access device may be a syringe, extension set, intravenous set, stop cock, tubing, high
   pressure extension tubing, or needleless access device. In one or more embodiments, the
   syringe is a pre-filled flush syringe. The luer connection device can be removably connected
25 to a vascular access device.
    [00111    The flow expansion channel can be configured to extend in a straight taper
   outwardly from the central axis of the lumen. The flow expansion channel may be configured
   to extend in a rotational taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen.          The flow
   expansion channel may be configured to scallop outwardly from the central axis of the lumen.
30 In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel is located at the distal end and
   projects axially in a proximal direction towards the proximal end.

                                                      4
    [0012]     In one or more embodiments, the luer connection device also includes a flow
   diverter disposed in the lumen at or near the distal end of the male luer tip to direct the fluid
   flow to the periphery of a connecting female luer space upon application of force in the distal
   direction.    The flow diverter can extend beyond the distal end of the housing.        The flow
 5 diverter may be connected to the flow expansion channel. The flow expansion channel may be
   located upstream from the flow diverter.
    [00131     In an embodiment, the flow diverter can direct fluid flow into the flow expansion
   channel. In another embodiment, the flow expansion channel directs fluid flow into the flow
   diverter.
10  [00141     In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel and flow diverter are both
   configured to extend in a straight taper towards the central axis of the lumen. In another
   embodiment, the flow expansion channel is configured to extend in a rotational taper towards
   the central axis of the lumen and flow diverter is configured to extend in a straight taper
   towards the central axis of the lumen.        In yet another embodiment, the flow diverter is
15 configured to extend in a rotational taper towards the central axis of the lumen and flow
   expansion channel is configured to extend in a straight taper towards the central axis of the
   lumen.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20  [00151     Figure 1 shows a standard prior art luer connection device having a standard male
   luer tip straight central fluid path having zones of flow stagnation.
    [0016]     Figure 2 is a cross-sectional view of the luer connection device having a flow
   diverter and flow expansion channel.
    [00171     Figure 3 is a cross-sectional view of the luer connection device having straight non
25 rotational flow expansion channels and rotational flow diverter.
    [00181     Figure 4 is a cross-sectional of the luer connection device having straight non
   rotational flow expanding channels.
    [0019]     Figure 5 is a cross-sectional of the luer connection device having rotational flow
   expansion channels.

                                                     5
    [0020]     Figure 6 shows a front view of the luer connection device having a straight non
   rotational flow expansion channels and rotational diverter having ramped angled edges.
    [0021]     Figure 7 shows a plan view of the luer connection device having a flow diverter and
   straight flow expansion channels.
 5  [00221     Figure 8 shows a plan view of the luer connection device having a flow diverter and
   rotational flow expansion channels.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10  [0023]     Before describing several exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is to be
   understood that the invention is not limited to the details of construction or process steps set
   forth in the following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being
   practiced or being carried out in various ways.
    [00241     In this disclosure, a convention is followed wherein the distal end of the device is
15 the end closest to a patient and the proximal end of the device is the end away from the patient
   and closest to a practitioner.
    [0025]     Many VADs have luer fittings which contain male luer tips. Figure 1 shows zones
   of flow stagnation, depicted as "A", where blood-derived debris can typically form in a
   standard prior art luer connection device having a standard male luer tip straight central fluid
20 path.
    [0026]     The present invention overcomes problems           associated with known     flushing
   techniques by providing a luer connection device having a male luer tip that effectively scrubs
   the blood, residue and other debris from deadspace located between male and female luer
   connections. The present invention provides a luer connection device having a male luer tip
25 with internal geometry that promotes improved flushing of any male to female luer connection
   whether it is connecting to a catheter, extension set, IV set, IV access device or any connector
   that includes a male luer for connection to a female luer. The luer connection device may be a
   stand alone component or may be integrally connected to a vascular access device that requires
   enhanced flushing prior to being connected to the female luer connection and performing the
30 flush procedure. The luer connection device of the present invention includes a male luer tip

                                                     6
   having a flow diverter 80 and/or flow channels 90 in a variety of forms to improve the removal
   of blood in the systems for a given flush volume. The present invention may also be useful for
   flushing needless IV access valves, such as BD Q-SyteTM. The luer connection device of the
   present invention can be removably attached or integrally attached to a pre-filled flush syringe
 5 for improved clinical outcomes. The luer connection device of the present invention may also
   be used in combination with other CRBSI risk reducing features., including, antimicrobial
   solutions and cleaning and protection caps, to establish an improved practice for reducing
   CRSI risk associated with flushing an infusion system.
    [00271     Figures 2-4 illustrate an exemplary luer connection device 10 according to the
10 present invention. Luer connection device 10 includes a housing 20 having a side wall 30 with
   an inside surface defining a lumen 40 with a central axis, a proximal end 50, and a distal end
   60 including a male luer tip 70 within the lumen having a passageway therethrough providing
   fluid communication between the proximal end 50 and the distal end 60 through which fluid,
   e.g. flush fluid, may be ejected. The male luer tip 70 disposed within the lumen at or near the
15 distal end includes a central flow diverter 80 extending outwardly from the central axis to
   direct fluid flow to a peripheral circumferential dead space located distal to the male luer tip.
    [00281     In one or more embodiments, the luer connection device 10 may also include at least
   one flow expansion channel 90 for increasing mixing and flow through circumferential dead
   space in the fluid path distal to the male luer tip. The flow expanding channel 90 increases
20 mixing and flow through the "dead" space, thereby significantly improving the removal of the
   blood, medicine and/or other fluids and provide superior flushing. In the embodiment shown,
   flow expansion channel 90 is disposed on the interior surface of the housing lumen 40 and can
   be round, square, triangular, or a combination thereof, or any other suitable shape.
   Specifically, the flow expansion channel 90 is shown as a structure that projects outward from
25 the side wall 30 of the housing lumen 40 and reduces the cross-sectional width of the lumen
   40.   The cross-sectional width of the interior surface of the lumen at the flow expansion
   channel is less than the cross-sectional width of the lumen at the remaining portions. It will be
   understood that the flow expansion channel 90 may be disposed at other locations along the
   interior surface of the side wall 30. In another variant, the flow expansion channel 90 may
30 include a plurality of outwardly extending projections disposed along the axial length of the
   housing 20 and may be disposed at pre-defined intervals along the axial length. The flow
   expansion channels also extend longitudinally along the length of the lumen and may be

                                                     7
   disposed at intervals along the length of the lumen. In one or more embodiments, the flow
   expansion channels may be tapered. In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel
   90 is configured to extend in a straight taper outwardly from the lumen 40 towards the central
   axis of the lumen.      In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel 90 may be
 5 configured to extend in a rotational taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen. In one
   or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel 90 is located upstream from the flow
   diverter 80.
   [0029]      It will be appreciated that the flow diverter 80 and/or flow expansion channel 90 is
   located within the interior surface of the lumen 40 forces fluid to peripheral space formed
10 between the male and female luer connections.        The central flow path diverter, alone or in
   combinations with the flow expansion channels, significantly improves the flushing and
   removal of fluid downstream from the luer tip by forcing the fluid to the periphery or the
   female luer space. Thus, the present invention improves flow based on flow expansion,
   disruptions of dead space creating features, and flow diversion outward.
15 [0030]      In one or more embodiments, the proximal end 50 of the luer connection device 10
   is integrally connected to a vascular access device.       The vascular access device may be a
   syringe, extension set, intravenous set, stop cock, tubing, high pressure extension tubing, or
   needleless access device.       In one or more embodiments, the luer connection device is
   removably connected to a vascular access device.
20 [0031]      In one or more embodiments, the central flow path diverter comprises a plurality of
   vanes. As used herein, a vane can include any number of known internal dividers capable of
   manipulating the path of a liquid. Internal dividers may include louvers or tapered leading and
   tailing edges. The plurality of vaines create turbulence in the flow of flushing fluid to reduce
   the dead space which might otherwise form on the peripheral surface of the wall portion
25 located between the male luer and female luer connection. In one or more embodiments of the
   present invention, the plurality of vanes may have a tapered leading edge and tapered tailing
   edge to minimize drag and reduce resistance. In one or more embodiments, the tapered leading
   edge may be configured to create a smooth entrance of fluid and the tapered tailing edge is
   configured to create a sharp exit for producing turbulent fluid flow upon exiting the flow
30 diverter.

                                                       8
    [0032]     In one or more embodiments, the plurality of vanes may be configured to extend
   straight outwardly from the central axis of the lumen 40 to the side wall 30. In yet another
   embodiment, the plurality of vanes extend outwardly from the central axis of the lumen in a
   curved configuration. In one or more embodiments, at least one edge of the plurality of vanes
 5 has a ramped angled surface to create a greater angle of incidence.
    [0033]     The flow expansion channel and flow diverter of the present invention may have a
   variety of cross sectional geometries including, but not limited to, a cross, rectangle, star,
   triangle, oval, spiral, twisting or helical formation.
    [0034]     The present invention is also directed to a luer connection device 10 including a
10 housing 20 having a side wall 30 with an inside surface defining a lumen 40, a proximal end 50
   and a distal end 60 including a distal wall with an elongate male luer tip 70 extending in a
   distal direction therefrom having a passageway therethrough providing fluid communication
   between the proximal end 50 and the distal end 60; and a flow expansion channel 90 being
   disposed in the lumen 40 tapering outward from the wall of tubular housing 20 and partially
15 extending along a longitudinal axis from the tip opening toward the base opening for
   increasing mixing and flow through a circumferential dead space in the fluid path distal to the
   male luer tip. The flow expanding channels increase mixing and flow through the "dead"
   space, thereby significantly improving the removal of the blood, medicine and/or other fluids
   and provide superior flushing.
20  [0035]     In one or more embodiments, the proximal end 50 is integrally connected to a
   vascular access device.        The vascular access device may be a syringe, extension set,
   intravenous set, stop cock, tubing, high pressure extension tubing, or needleless access device.
   In one or more embodiments, the syringe is a pre-filled flush syringe.           In yet another
   embodiment, the luer connection device 10 of claim is removably connected to a vascular
25 access device.
    [00361     In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel is configured to extend in
   a straight taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen. In yet another embodiment of the
   present invention, the flow expansion channel may be configured to extend in a rotational taper
   outwardly from the central axis of the lumen. In another embodiment, the flow expansion
30 channel may be is configured to scallop outwardly from the central axis of the lumen.

                                                      9
    [0037]     In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel is located at the distal end
   and projects axially in a proximal direction towards the proximal end.
    [0038]     In one or more embodiments, the luer connection device 10 also includes a flow
   diverter 80 disposed in the lumen at or near the distal end of the male luer tip 70 to direct the
 5 fluid flow to the periphery of a connecting female luer space upon application of force in the
   distal direction. In one or more embodiments, the flow diverter 80 extends beyond the distal
   end of the housing 20. In one or more embodiments, the flow diverter 80 may be connected to
   the flow expansion channel 90. In one or more embodiments, the flow expansion channel 90
   may be located upstream from the flow diverter 80.
10  [00391     In one or more embodiments, the flow diverter 80 directs fluid flow into the flow
   expansion channel 90. In another embodiment, the flow expansion channel 90 directs fluid
   flow into the flow diverter 80. In one or more embodiments, the flow diverter may merge into
   flow expansion channels.
    [0040]     It is envisioned that numerous combinations of flow expansion channels and central
15 flow diverters are possible including, but not limited to, a straight or rotational flow expanding
   channels on the inner diameter of the male luer space.         Straight or rotational central flow
   diverters having one or more flow channels are also within the scope of the present invention.
   In one embodiment of the present invention, the male luer tip may include a rotational flow
   expanding channels and a central, circulating flow diverter.
20  [0041]     Figure 2 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having a flow expansion
   channel 90 and flow diverter 80 that are both configured to extend in a straight taper towards
   the central axis of the lumen.        In another embodiment, the flow expansion channel is
   configured to extend in a rotational taper towards the central axis of the lumen and flow
   diverter 80 is configured to extend in a straight taper towards the central axis of the lumen.
25 Figure 5 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having a male luer tip with a
   rotational flow expansion channels and central flow diverters.
    [0042]     In yet another embodiment, the flow diverter is configured to extend in a rotational
   taper towards the central axis of the lumen and flow expansion channel is configured to extend
   in a straight taper towards the central axis of the lumen.

                                                     10
    [0043]     Blood-derived debris in the deadspace is dislodged by diverting the fluid flow to the
   periphery of the connecting female luer space during a flush procedure to increase mixing and
   turbulence in the dead space created by a male luer tip.
    [0044]     Figure 3 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having straight non
 5 rotational flow expansion channels and rotational flow diverter.
    [0045]     Figure 4 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having straight non
   rotational flow expanding channels.
    [00461     Figure 5 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having rotational flow
   expansion channels.
10  [0047]     Figure 6 shows a front view of the flow diverter located at the distal end 60. Figure
   6 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having a straight non-rotational flow
   expansion channels and rotational diverter having ramped angled edges.
    [0048]     Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary luer connection device 10 having a flow diverter
   and straight flow expansion channels. Figure 8 shows a side view of luer connection device,
15 illustrating how flow expansion channels 90 protrude/ twist as it courses evenly and smoothly
   from proximal end 50 to distal end 60.
    [0049]     The purpose of the flow expanding channels is to increase mixing and flow through
   the "dead" space, thereby significantly improving the removal of the blood, medicine and/or
   other fluids and provide superior flushing.
20  [0050]     The flow diverter can direct flow into deadspace located between a male and female
   luer connection so as to minimize the trapping of blood within the passageway.
    [0051]     Flow diverter 80 is provided within the male luer tip to force the fluid flow to the
   periphery of the connecting female luer space during a flush procedure to increase mixing and
   turbulence in the dead space created by a male luer tip between a male and female luer
25 connection. This enhanced flushing results in a reduction in the risk of infection due to residual
   blood in the catheter system. The flow diverter 80 is integrally formed within male luer tip.
    [0052]      The tip has a flow expanding channel and flow diverter. The flow of flushing fluid
   then circulates radially outward through the flow diverter to the outer periphery of the tip into
   the deadspace.

                                                     11
    [0053]    The flush enhancing luer connection device of the present invention, with either
   flow expanding channels or a flow diverter, or a combination of the two, provides a significant
   improvement to the standard flush devices and procedures. This is accomplished by diverting
   the fluid flow to the periphery of the connecting female luer space during a flush procedure to
 5 increase mixing and turbulence in the dead space created by a male luer tip. This enhanced
   flushing results in a reduction in the risk of infection due to residual blood in the catheter
   system.
    [0054]    The dimensions of the luer connection device of the present invention can be made
   to comply with applicable standards and/or regulations, such as ISO standard 594.
10  [00551    Reference    throughout    this    specification to  "one    embodiment,"     "certain
   embodiments," "one or more embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular
   feature, structure, material, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
   included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrases
   such as "in one or more embodiments," "in certain embodiments," "in one embodiment" or "in
15 an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to
   the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, the particular features, structures,
   materials, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
   embodiments.
    [0056]    Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular
20 embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the
   principles and applications of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the
   art that various modifications and variations can be made to the method and apparatus of the
   present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.       Thus, it is
   intended that the present invention include modifications and variations that are within the
25 scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

                                                   12
   What is claimed is:
   1. A luer connection device comprising:
           a housing including a side wall having an inside surface defining a lumen with a central
 5 axis, a proximal end, and a distal end including a male luer tip within the lumen having a
   passageway therethrough providing fluid communication between the proximal end and the
   distal end; and
           a flow expansion channel disposed in the lumen tapering outward from the wall of
   tubular housing and partially extending along a longitudinal axis from the distal end toward the
10 base opening for increasing mixing and flow through a circumferential dead space in the fluid
   path distal to the male luer tip.
   2. A vascular access device incorporating the luer connection device of claim 1.
15 3. The vascular access device of claim 2, wherein the vascular access device is a syringe,
   extension set, intravenous set, stop cock, tubing, high pressure extension tubing, or needleless
   access device.
   4. The luer connection device of claim 1. wherein the proximal end is removably connected to
20 a vascular access device.
   5. The luer connection device of claim 4, wherein the vascular access device is a syringe,
   extension set, intravenous set, stop cock, tubing, high pressure extension tubing, or needleless
   connector.
25
   6. The luer connection device of claim 3, wherein the syringe is a pre-filled flush syringe.
   7. The luer connection device of claim 1, wherein the flow expansion channel is configured to
   extend in a straight taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen.
30

                                                     13
   8. The luer connection device of claim 1, wherein the flow expansion channel is configured to
   extend in a rotational taper outwardly from the central axis of the lumen.
   9. The luer connection device of claim 1, wherein the flow expansion channel is configured to
 5 scallop outwardly from the central axis of the lumen.
   10. The luer connection device of claim 1, wherein the flow expansion channel is located at the
   distal end and projects axially in a proximal direction towards the proximal end.
10 11. The luer connection device of claim 1, further comprising a flow diverter disposed in the
   lumen at or near the distal end of the male luer tip to direct the fluid flow to the periphery of a
   connecting female luer space upon application of force in the distal direction.
   12. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow diverter extends beyond the distal
15 end of the housing.
   13. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow diverter is connected to the flow
   expansion channel.
20 14. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow expansion channel is located
   upstream from the flow diverter.
   15. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow diverter directs fluid flow into the
   flow expansion channel.
25
   16. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow expansion channel directs fluid
   flow into the flow diverter.
   17. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow expansion channel and flow
30 diverter are both configured to extend in a straight taper towards the central axis of the lumen.

                                                   14
   18. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow expansion channel is configured
  to extend in a rotational taper towards the central axis of the lumen and flow diverter is
  configured to extend in a straight taper towards the central axis of the lumen.
5  19. The luer connection device of claim 11, wherein the flow diverter is configured to extend
  in a rotational taper towards the central axis of the lumen and flow expansion channel is
  configured to extend in a straight taper towards the central axis of the lumen.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
