                                         Abstract
An apparatus and method for metering and treating seed. The apparatus incorporates a belt
conveyor or circular conveyor within a housing enabling a low-profile configuration, the
conveyor having a plurality of cleats forming a series of separate voids for transporting
determinable volumes of seed, and a seed treatment applicator adjacent the conveyor outlet for
applying seed treatment to the seed. The apparatus and method allows for the application of
seed treatment based on a mass flow calculation derived from the measured volume flow
through the apparatus.

      WO 2014/008571                                                             PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                      1
         LOW PROFILE SEED TREATER WITH METERING FUNCTIONALITY
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to seed treatment apparatuses and methods, and more particularly
to seed treatment apparatuses and methods that incorporate seed metering.
Background of the Invention
It is well known in the agricultural arts to apply various treatments to seeds before planting, in an
effort to reduce the amount of such treatment that would otherwise be required were it to be
applied to a field after planting.        For example, treatments may include the application of
fertilizers., insecticides, pesticides and fungicides, and normally take the form of liquid chemical
that is sprayed onto the seed. While seed treatment apparatuses are commercially available, it is
more common to see a farmer spray treatment directly onto seed just before it is drawn up an
auger, the auger being employed to mix the treated seed in an effort to spread the treatment
coating over as much seed surface as possible before planting.            Such manual application,
however, normally results in overuse of expensive treatment (due to a failure to properly meter
the seed and control the treatment amount) and loss of treatment (particularly due to wind) and
may even have health implications depending on the nature and toxicity of the particular
treatment being applied, although manual application may also result in too little treatment being
applied and therefore a reduction in the desired effect.
Various seed treatment apparatuses have been disclosed in the prior art, some of which have
been made commercially available.           For example, Canadian Patent No. 518,715 to Calkins
provides an early example of a seed treatment device that incorporates metering of seed, where a
"dump pan" is employed, but the metering approach is unfortunately inaccurate and the focus of
the teaching is on slurry agitation rather than achieving optimal treatment application. Canadian
Patent Application No. 2,704,589 to Hunter et al. teaches a more accurate metering system,
where seed weight is determined using a load cell to calculate an optimal treatment application,

     WO 2014/008571                                                            PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                  2
but the apparatus is designed for batch processing in a research setting rather than the high
throughput seed treatment required in a commercial farming operation.
One of the commercially available seed treaters for on-farm use is described in Canadian Patent
No. 2,196,001 to Graham. The Graham apparatus, or "G3", is used with two augers, where one
auger transports seed upwardly (from an auger hopper positioned under a hopper-bottom bin or
similar) toward the upper intake of the seed treater, and the seed is then sprayed with treatment
as it falls downwardly through the seed treated, with the second auger serving to mix the treated
seed and transport it upwardly to a truck or storage unit. The seed falls in an annular pattern
adjacent the inner surface of the treater, and a centrally-disposed nozzle sprays treatment in a
conical spray pattern in an effort to contact as much seed as possible. While this apparatus may
provide an improvement over manual application methods, it has been found that treatment
builds up around the inner surface of the treater and is therefore wasted.      However, a more
significant issue has been noted with this and other auger-based treaters, namely, that using an
auger to determine volume flow through the system (and hence the amount of treatment to apply)
can be quite inaccurate due to product slippage inherent in the screw-type transport mechanism.
Also, optimal treatment application rates are provided in mL/100kg, so a reliance on volume
alone without an adjustment for seed density can contribute to an application rate that is not
optimized, hence resulting in treatment waste. In a commercial farming operation, the cost of
such waste can be substantial.
The problem of treatment waste and optimized application rates in a commercial farming context
has not been canvassed to a significant extent in the prior art. One example is United States
Patent Application No. 12/848,412 to Reineccius et al., which teaches an apparatus that provides
an accurate means for measuring seed voluine to determine an optimal treatment application rate.
However, the apparatus itself is of a physical scale that may limit its on-farm application and,
while providing a volume determination mechanism superior to that of Graham and other auger
type apparatuses, the teaching does not take seed density into account.
What is needed, therefore, is an apparatus and method that can be applied in commercial farming
operations for metering seed to determine a more optimized treatment application rate.

      WO 2014/008571                                                              PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                     3
Summary of the Invention
The present invention accordingly seeks to provide a seed treatment apparatus and method that
 meters seed based on volume and uses mass flow based on seed density to calculate optimal
 treatment application rate for a given seed type, in an apparatus configuration capable of use with
on-farm storage units.
According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a seed treatment apparatus
comprising:
         a housing having an inner surface;
         a conveyor generally horizontally disposed within the housing, the conveyor having
         spaced apart first and second ends and a conveyor drive mcchanisrn;
         a conveyor intake adjacent the first end for receiving seed;
         a conveyor outlet adjacent the second end for discharging the seed;
         a plurality of cleats each having opposed first and second edges, the cleats mounted at
         their first edges on an outward surface of the conveyor at regular spaced apart intervals,
         the second edges of the cleats extending toward the inner surface of the housing, such
         that the outward surface and the inner surface and the cleats collectively define a series of
        voids for receiving and transporting determinable volumes of the seed;
        a seed treatment applicator adjacent the conveyor outlet for receiving the discharged seed
        and applying seed treatment to the seed; and
        a seed treatment source in fluid communication with the seed treatment applicator for
        providing the seed treatment.
In some embodiments of the present invention. the housing may comprise the conveyor intake
and the conveyor outlet, and the housing may also contain the seed treatment applicator and
comprise a treated seed outlet. A scraper may be incorporated extending downwardly from the
inner surface of the housing, the scraper (which may be a brush) having a length generally equal
to a distance between the inner surface of the housing and the second edges of the cleats and a
width generally equal to the cleats, such that when the cleats pass by the scraper the scraper

     WO 2014/008571                                                               PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                    4
levels off the received seed so that the received seed is generally flush with the second edges of
the cleats. The conveyor may be a continuous belt conveyor or a circular conveyor, and the seed
treatment applicator may comprise a peristaltic pump and spray nozzles. In some embodiments,
the apparatus may further comprise a controller for controlling the conveyor drive mechanism
and the seed treatment applicator, and the controller comprises a programmable logic controller,
a data storage, a user interface, and a display (the user interface and the display may collectively
be a touchscreen monitor).      Certain embodiments may further comprise a channeling collar
mounted on the conveyor intake for directing the seed toward the conveyor intake, and the
channeling collar may also be upwardly biased so as to sealingly engage with a source of the
seed. The housing may also be provided with an extensible support for selectively elevating the
second end of the conveyor, thereby providing an enhanced area for treatment application, and
further comprising at least one ground-engaging wheel to enable relocation of the apparatus.
According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for treating
seed comprising the steps of:
        a.      determining a seed density value for the seed;
        b.       metering the seed to determine a seed volume;
        c.      using the seed density value to convert the seed volume to a seed mass;
        d.      calculating an optimal seed treatment application rate based on the seed mass; and
        e.      applying seed treatment to the metered seed based on the optimal seed treatment
                application rate.
According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for treating seed
using a metering apparatus, the method comprising the steps of:
        a.      determining a seed density value for the seed;
        b.      using the metering apparatus to determine a seed volume flow through the
                apparatus;
        c.      using the seed density value to convert the seed volume flow to a seed mass flow
                through the apparatus;
        d.      calculating an optimal seed treatment application rate based on the seed mass
                flow: and

     WO 2014/008571                                                            PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                    5
         e.      applying seed treatment to the metered seed based on the optimal seed treatment
                 application rate.
In some methods according to the present invention, the apparatus may comprise a metering
conveyor and the seed volume flow is determined on the basis of the volume of the seed
conveyed by the metering conveyor. The apparatus may also comprises a programmable logic
controller that is programmed to convert the seed volume flow to the seed mass flow using the
determined seed density value. and the programmable logic controller is programmed to
calculate the optimal seed treatment application rate based on the seed mass flow. Finally, the
apparatus may comprise a seed treatment applicator for applying the seed treatment to the
metered seed.
A detailed description of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is given in the
following. It is to be understood, however, that the invention is not to be construed as being
limited to this embodiment.
Brief Description of the Drawings
In the accompanying drawings, which illustrate an exemplary embodiment of the present
invention:
        Figure 1 is a side elevation view of an apparatus according to the present invention, with
        a cut-away portion showing the conveyor;
        Figure 2 is a top plan view of the apparatus of Figure 1 with a cut-away portion showing
        the conveyor;
        Figure 3 is a rear elevation view of the apparatus of Figure 1;
        Figure 4 is a front elevation view of the apparatus of Figure 1;

     WO 2014/008571                                                               PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                      6
        Figure 5 is a detail illustration of the brush-cleat interface;
        Figure 6 is a detail illustration of the applicator;
        Figures 7a to 7g are screen shots of the user interface and display of the controller;
        Figure 8 is a side elevation view of the apparatus of Claim I positioned under a hopper
        bottom bin;
        Figure 9 is a side elevation view of the apparatus of Claim I with a mixing auger and
        boot;
        Figure 10 is a flowchart illustrating a first method according to the present invention;
        Figure 11 is a flowchart illustrating a second method according to the present invention;
        Figure 12a is a side perspective view of an alternative conveyor embodiment; and
        Figure 12b is a top plan view of the alternative conveyor embodiment of Figure 12a.
Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings.
Detailed Description of Exemplary Embodiments
Referring now to the accompanying drawings, embodiments of an apparatus and method
according to the present invention are illustrated.        It is to be understood that the illustrated
embodiments are exemplary only and other embodiments may properly fall within the scope of
the claims.

     WO 2014/008571                                                            PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                  7
 Referring now in detail to Figures 1 through 4, an apparatus 10 according to the present
 invention is illustrated. The apparatus 10 comprises a conveyor 16 within a housing 12, the
conveyor 16 positioned generally horizontally to provide a low profile to enable positioning of
 the apparatus 10 underneath a hopper-bottom bin or similar seed storage unit, the conveyor
configured to move seed 36 on the top of the conveyor 16 in the direction of the arrow in Figure
 1. The housing 12 comprises a seed intake 24 at a first end 18 of the conveyor 16 and a seed
outlet 26 at a second end 20 of the conveyor 16. While various drive mechanisms are possible
within the scope of the present invention, a conventional motor 22 is shown in the illustrated
embodiment as being mounted on a side of the housing 12 for providing power to the conveyor
 16, the motor being connected to a power source 74 and a controller 50 in a manner determinable
by those skilled in the art.
The conveyor 16, which is a continuous belt in the embodiment shown in Figures 1 through 5, is
provided with a series of spaced apart cleats 28, the cleats mounted on the conveyor 16 at a first
edge 30, the second edge 32 of each cleat 28 directed toward an inner surface 14 of the housing
 12. The cleats 28 are equally spaced along the conveyor 16 and rigidly mounted perpendicular
to the conveyor surface to avoid forward or rearward bending when retaining and transporting
seed 36; it. will be obvious to those skilled in the art, however, that the cleats 28 could be
mounted in such a way that they are disposed off of the vertical and still achieve the desired
functionality. In the result, the conveyor 16, two adjacent cleats 28 and surrounding housing 12
walls define a generally cuboid receiving void for receipt and transport of seed 36 to be treated,
and the series of equally spaced cleats 28 therefore provide a continuous series of such voids of
equal volume. The consistency of volumes in series allows calculation of an appropriate amount
of treatment 38 application. The cleats 28 arc also preferably composed of a flexible material to
avoid crushing of seed 36 that might get caught against the housing 12 inner walls during
movement of the conveyor 16.
Figures 12a and 12b illustrate an alternative conveyor 16a, which is in the form of a horizontally
disposed wheel that rotates about a vertical axis. Rather than the continuous belt configuration
of Figures I through 5 with cuboid voids, this alternative embodiment illustrates a further
configuration that embodies the present invention where the voids are generally triangular. The

       WO 2014/008571                                                              PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                     8
conveyor 16a is housed within a circular housing I2a and rotates about its vertical axis in the
direction shown by the arrow in Figure 12b, the voids defined in part by cleats 28a. The intake
 24a is located at a first end 18a of the conveyor 16a and comprises an aperture in the upper
surface of the housing 1.2a. which aperture opens into a triangular void. Seed can be deposited
 into the triangular void through the intake 24a. As can be scen in Figure 12b, the intake 24a may
be larger than the width of an individual void, which has been found to be helpful in ensuring a
complete filling of the void at certain higher operating speeds. Once an individual void is filled,
 it is rotated out of alignment with the intake 24a (through the action of a drive mechanism, which
could for example be situated beside or under the housing 12a) and towards the outlet 26a, which
comprises an aperture located at a second end 20a of the conveyor 16a in the lower surface of the
housing 12a; once the void is positioned over the outlet 26a the seed is allowed to fall
downwardly out of the void through the Outlet 26a. In this way, the alternative conveyor 16a
functions in a similar manner to the conveyor 16 of Figures 1 through 5, although empty voids
return to the intake 24a on the same horizontal plane as the filled voids rather than passing
rearwardly on the underside of the belt-like conveyor 16. The conveyor 16a and housing 12a
could also be provided with a channeling collar as is illustrated in Figure 1, to channel seed
toward the intake 24a, or the housing 12a could be raised into position against a bin outlet by
means known in the art. Other alternative conveyor configurations will be obvious to one skilled
in the art.
As can best be seen in Figures 1 and 3, the housing 12 comprises a channeling collar 54 mounted
on the intake 24. The collar 54 is composed of a flexible material that folds in an accordion-like
fashion. The collar 54 may be positionable in any degree of upward extension, or it may be
biased upwardly into an extended position by means known to those skilled in the art such as
external or internally integrated springs. The purpose of the collar 54 is to channel seed 36 from
an overlying storage unit toward the intake 24, which collar 54 may be spaced from the storage
unit outlet or sealingly engaged with it. This feature allows the user to avoid seed loss due to
misalignment of the storage unit outlet and the intake 24 and also due to wind. The collar 54
also functions to allow flooding of the conveyor 16 with seed 36 to ensure accuracy of volume
flow determination.

      WO 2014/008571                                                               PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                      9
 The apparatus 10 is also provided with a handle 68 and wheels 58 to enable a user to move the
 apparatus 10 into position beneath a seed storage unit. The wheels 58 can be caster wheels, and
 they are mounted on extensible legs 56 in the illustrated embodiment, as can best be seen in
 Figures 1, 3 and 4. The extensible legs 56 allow the user to vertically adjust the rear of the
 apparatus 10 to better position the intake 24 for receipt of seed 36, but also to raise the front of
 the apparatus 10 slightly to enhance the area for spraying treatment 38 on the metered seed 36.
 Figures 1 and 2 show the position of a scraper or brush 44 which is mounted on the inner surface
  14 of the housing 12 adjacent the intake 24. The brush 44 is an elongate member that extends
 across the width of the housing 12 and is generally equivalent in length to a cleat 28. The brush
 44 functions to help level off the seed 36 that has been received in each cuboid void, helping to
 ensure consistent seed 36 volumes in each void. Figure 5 provides a detailed illustration of the
 interface between the brush 44 and a cleat 28. While the void could be initially filled above the
 second edge 32 of the cleat 28, the conveyor 16 moves the cleats 28 and received seed 36 past
 the brush 44. thereby scraping off the excess seed 36 such that it remains in the intake 24 area. It
 will also be obvious to those skilled in the art that the edge of the intake 24 could serve the same
 function as the brush 44 in modified or unmodified form in alternative embodiments of the
present invention.
The above description is addressed to the nictering functionality of the apparatus 10, whereby
determinable volumes of seed 36 in each cuboid void result in a determinable volume flow
through the apparatus 10. The apparatus 10 is also provided with seed treating functionality,
where the metered seed 36 is provided with treatment 38. The seed treatment applicator 34 is
positioned at the front end of the apparatus 10 over the conveyor outlet 26 and comprises a
housing for directing metered seed 36 downwardly past a spray nozzle 48. A pump 46 (such as a
peristaltic pump) is mounted on a side of the housing 12 for drawing treatment 38 from a
treatment source 40 such as a barrel, and the pump is connected to both a power source 74 and
the controller 50. The pump 46 is configured to draw treatment 38 from the treatment source 40
and direct the treatment 38 through treatment lines 72 toward the nozzle 48. As can be seen in
the detailed illustration of Figure 6. the treatment line 72 can be connected to valves 76 and a
pressure gauge 70 in a conventional manner to control and monitor the passage of treatment 38.

      WO 2014/008571                                                             PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                     10
 As can be seen in Figure 8. the treatment 38 is sprayed rearwardly within the seed treatment
 applicator 34 housing, as the seed 36 passes downwardly from the conveyor outlet 26 and past
 the nozzle 48 to the treated seed outlet 42. Although not shown, it is possible to incorporate a
 second nozzle on a rearward side of the seed treatment applicator 34 housing opposite to the
 nozzle 48, with spray toward the front of the apparatus 10, such that seed 36 is sprayed from
 front and back as it falls toward the treated seed outlet 42.
 Figures 8 and 9 illustrate the interface of the apparatus 10 with adjacent equipment. Figure 8
 illustrates the apparatus 10 receiving seed 36 from a bopper-bottom bin 64, where the collar 54 is
upwardly extended to sealingly engage the bin outlet 66.           As can be seen, this form of
 engagement has the advantage of keeping the intake 24 consistently full during operation of the
 apparatus 10 while reducing the chance of spillage or wind loss.          Figure 9 illustrates the
 positioning of an auger hopper 60 and mixing auger 62 at the discharge end of the apparatus 10.
 After the seed 36 has been sprayed with treatment 38, it falls through the treated seed outlet 42
 into the hopper 60, where the seed 36 is then drawn up into the auger for mixing and more
uniform coating of the seed 36 before being ultimately discharged into a truck or another storage
unit. Although not shown, the auger hopper 60 could also be integrated with the front end of the
apparatus 10 rather than be a separate piece of equipment, thereby further reducing exposure
points.
The controller 50 is connected to both the conveyor motor 22 and the pump 46, and is used to
control both the speed of the conveyor 16 and the rate of treatment 38 application, as will be
discussed below. The controller 50 comprises a programmable logic controller, a data storage, a
user interface and a display. The user interface and display are collectively a touchscreen 52, as
seen in Figure 2.
As has been indicated above, certain prior art seed treaters meter the seed to be treated but rely
on volume alone to calculate treatment application rate, which does not take into account seed
density, and the volume figure itself is subject in most cases to significant error. The apparatus
10 described above, while providing many advantages over prior art systems, is intended to
address the error in volume determination in a low profile configuration. Methods according to

     WO 2014/008571                                                            PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                   11
the present invention, in contrast to prior art methods, use mass flow based on density and
therefore are able to provide a more accurate determination that aligns with the standard
application rates provided by most treatment manufacturers.
Standard application rates are normally provided in mU100kg, or volume/mass. Density is mass
per unit volume, so if one knows the density for a particular seed to be treated, the mass can be
determined based on that density and a measured seed volume, allowing the user to calculate an
optimal application rate. The following two examples are illustrative of a method according to
the present invention.
Example 1: Applying Ravil MD Liquid Seed Treatment to Wheat
A first test run was conducted using an apparatus in accordance with the present invention. The
test apparatus had a single-revolution volume of 1.44 bushels, which figure was programmed
into the controller to enable motor speed calculations.
Using a scale and a half-litre cup, the actual density of the seed was measured, rather than use a
standard density which can be inaccurate.       For example, in the instant example, the actual
measured seed density was 67.8 lbs/bushel rather than the standard of 60 lbs/bushel.          The
application rate of Raxil MD is 300 mUI00kg of seed.
For every revolution of the conveyor, the unit displaced 1.44 bushels/revolution X 67.8
lbs/bushel = 97.6 lbs/revolution or 44.3 kg/revolution. As Raxil MD was to be applied at 300
mIU100kg of seed, the apparatus pump had to apply 44.3 kg/revolution X 300 mUOOkg = 132
mUrevolution. The desired treating speed was 20 bushels of seed per minute, so the conveyor
was operating at (20 bushels/minute)/(1.44 bushels/revolution) = 13.9 rpm.          Therefore, to
achieve the desired application rate of Raxil MD Seed Treatment. the pump was operated at 132
mUrevolution X 13.9 rpm = 1845 mUminute.
Exnple 2: Applying Raxil WW Liquid Seed Treatment to Blarley

     WO 2014/008571                                                            PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                  12
A second test run was conducted using an apparatus in accordance with the present invention.
Using a scale and a half-litre cup, the actual density of the seed was measured, rather than use a
standard density which can be inaccurate.       For example, in the instant example, the actual
measured seed density was 55.4 lbs/bushel rather than the standard of 48 lbs/bushel.          The
application rate of Raxil WW is 363 mrIJIOOkg of seed.
For every revolution of the conveyor, the unit displaced 1.44 bushels/revolution X 55.4
lbs/bushel = 79.8 lbs/revolution or 36.2 kg/revolution. As Raxil WW was to be applied at 363
mIJIOOkg of seed, the apparatus pump had to apply 36.2 kg/revolution X 363 rnlJOOkg = 131.3
mlUrevolution. The desired treating speed was 18 bushels of seed per minute, so the conveyor
was operating at (18 bushels/minute)/(1.44 bushels/revolution) = 12.5 rpm.           Therefore, to
achieve the desired application rate of Raxil WW Seed Treatment, the pump was operated at
 131.3 mUrevolution X 12.5 rpm = 1642 mUminute.
Turning now to Figures 10 and I1, methods according to the present invention are illustrated. In
the method 80 illustrated in Figure 10, seed is provided at step 82, followed by a determination
of seed density at step 84. The seed is then metered at step 86 to determine the seed volume, and
the seed density is used at step 88 to convert that seed volume value to a seed mass value. The
seed mass value is then used at step 90 to calculate an optimal seed treatment application rate,
followed by actual application of treatment at step 92.
In the method 100 illustrated in Figure 11, seed is provided at step 102 and a metering apparatus
such as apparatus 10 described above is provided at step 104. The seed density is determined at
step 106. As indicated in the above examples, seed density can be determined using a simple
scale-and-cup method; alternatively, where a conveyor-based metering apparatus is employed as
in the present invention, the conveyor itself could be provided with a weighing mechanism such
as a load cell to weigh the loaded conveyor and thereby determine seed density without. recourse
to a separate measurement step using a scale and cup. The seed is metered using the apparatus at
step 108 (either concurrently with or subsequent to step .106) to determine a seed volume flow
through the apparatus. This seed volume flow through the apparatus is then converted at step
110 to a seed mass flow through the apparatus using the seed density that was determined at step

     WO 2014/008571                                                                PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                    13
106. The optimal seed treatment application rate is then calculated at step 112 based on the seed
mass flow through the apparatus, followed by actual application of treatment at step 114.
As indicated above, the apparatus 10 is provided with a controller 50 to enable operation of the
apparatus 10 and implementation of the methods according to the present invention. Turning
now to Figures 7a to 7g, screen shots are provided which illustrate the use of the controller 50
with touchscreen 52. When the controller 50 has been powered up, Figure 7a is the first screen
that is presented to the user. This main screen is facilitates operation of the controller 50.
When the user presses the "Prime/Empty" button on the touchscreen, the Prime/Empty Screen is
presented to the user, as shown in Figure 7b. This screen is used to prepare the apparatus 10 for
operation. The "Jog Conveyor" button is used once the bin seed supply has been initiated and
the intake 24 has been flooded with seed 36; by pressing the button, the conveyor motor 22 is
powered up so as to advance the conveyor 16 one cleat 28 at a time. The "Prime" button is used
to pump treatment 38 from the treatment source 40 to the pump 46 and into the nozzle 48. The
"Empty" button runs the pump 46 in reverse to return unused treatment 38 to the treatment
source 40 at the completion of treatment.
If the user selects the "Recipes" button the main screen, the user is presented with the Main
Recipe Screen shown at Figure 7c. This screen presents the user with a list of pre-programmed
"recipes" or settings that are required for treatment application for different seed types. Pre
programming such settings allows the user to quickly return to needed settings.
When the user selects one of the recipes on the Main Recipe Screen, the user is presented with a
Recipe Setting Screen for the particular seed type, an example of which is shown at Figure 7d.
This Recipe Setting Screen contains the information necessary for the proper control of the
conveyor motor 22 and pump 46. The user can enter a recipe name (a keypad pops up upon
selecting this item) and must enter a seed density, which seed density can be determined using a
half-litre cup and scale as indicated above. As stated above, this seed density is used by the
controller to convert the volume flow of the conveyor 16 to a mass flow, The application rate
must also be entered by the user and is normally found on the treatment product label, expressed

      WO 2014/008571                                                                PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                      14
 in mU100kg. The pump calibration number defaults to 1000 which is 100%, but this can be
 changed manually or through a pump test.
 If the user presses the pump test button on the Recipe Setting Screen, they are presented with the
 Pump Calibration Screen shown at Figure 7e. This screen is used to account for different seed
 treatment fluid viscosities, as fluids of different viscosities will move through the pump 46
 differently. During the punp test, the pump 46 is operated for 30 seconds, the liquid is collected,
 and the volume is measured, The user enters the volume at the "Amount of Treatment
 Collected" line, and the controller calculates the volume pumped per revolution of the motor 22.
 Returning to the Main Screen, the user can then select the "Operation" button and will be
 presented with the Operation Screen shown at Figure 7f. This screen is displayed prior to and
during operation of the apparatus 10. Once "Start" has been selected, the apparatus 10 will begin
 running and the "Start" button will disappear and be replaced on the touchscreen 52 with a red
 "Stop" button - pushing the "Stop" button will cause the motor 22 and pump 46 to shut off.
Operation of the apparatus 10 will proceed on the basis of the selected seed-specific recipe and
application rate (shown as bushels/minute and lbs/minute on the screen), both of which are
displayed on the screen. The controller calculates how fast to turn the conveyor 16 based on the
bushels required per minute, and uses the seed density to convert this volume to a mass flow
through the apparatus 10. The mass flow is required as the application rate of treatment entered
in the recipe is based on m1J00kg. From this information, the controller then calculates how
fast to turn the pump 46 to get the calculated optimal application rate of treatment. The
controller uses proportional control to operate the pump 46 at the correct speed relative to the
conveyor 16 speed; in this way the application rate is as desired regardless of the seed flow
selected, and this control reduces the amount of calibration necessary when changing products
and flow rates.
As can be further seen in Figure 7f, the controller allows the user to select a certain batch size of
seed 36 to be treated. By pressing the square to the right of the "Batch Size" label on the
touchscreen 52, a further screen appears allowing the user to enter a seed amount in lbs. If a
batch amount is entered, then the "lbs Treated" line is activated and tracks the amount of seed

      WO 2014/008571                                                                PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                    15
left to be treated in the batch. In this batch mode of operation, the unit will run until the set-point
is reached and then the pump 46 and conveyor 16 will be shut off, If "0" is chosen as the batch
size, the unit will run continuously until the "Stop" button is pressed on the touchscreen 52, and
the "lbs Treated" line will display the seed that has been treated as the unit is running. The
conveyor rpm and pump rpm are also displayed, and will display "0" until the unit is running.
From the Main Screen, the user can also select the "Totals" button, which will display a Totals
Screen as shown in Figure 7g. This screen tracks the treatment in progress, with options to track
and save data for two batches and the treatment used. The screen also displays the lifetime
treatment total of seed for the unit. From the Main Screen, the user can also select the
 "Setup/Maintenance" button, which can display a screen (not shown) for changing units from
Imperial to Metric or any number of other settings.
As can be readily seen, then, the apparatus and method of the present invention present
significant advantages over the prior art. For example, the apparatus provides for metering based
on positive displacement instead of an inaccurate screw-type auger. with a low profile due to a
horizontally disposed conveyor (both the belt-type conveyor and circular conveyor) so it can fit
under common hopper-bottom bins. Also, the apparatus and methods according to the present
 invention incorporate a seed density determination to provide more accurate treatment
application. Other advantages would be obvious to those skilled in the art.
The foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Thus, while
certain aspects and embodiments of the invention have been described, these have been
presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.
 Indeed, the invention described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms without
departing from the spirit of the invention, which invention is defined solely by the claims below.

    WO 2014/008571                                                               PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                  16
Claims
        A seed treatment apparatus comprising:
       a housing having an inner surface;
        a conveyor generally horizontally disposed within the housing, the conveyor having
        spaced apart first and second ends and a conveyor drive mechanism;
        a conveyor intake adjacent the first end for receiving seed;
        a conveyor outlet adjacent the second end for discharging the seed;
        a plurality of cleats each having opposed first and second edges. the cleats mounted at
        their first edges on an outward surface of the conveyor at regular spaced apart intervals,
        the second edges of the cleats extending toward the inner surface of the housing, such
        that the outward surface and the inner surface and the cleats collectively define a series of
        voids for receiving and transporting determinable volumes of the seed;
        a seed treatment applicator adjacent the conveyor outlet for receiving the discharged seed
        and applying seed treatment to the seed: and
        a seed treatment source in fluid communication with the seed treatment applicator for
        providing the seed treatment.
2.     The apparatus of Claim I wherein the housing comprises the conveyor intake and the
       conveyor outlet.
3.     The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the housing contains the seed treatment applicator and
       comprises a treated seed outlet.
4.     The apparatus of Claim I further comprising a scraper extending downwardly from the
       inner surface of the housing, the scraper having a length generally equal to a distance
       between the inner surface of the housing and the second edges of the cleats and a width
       generally equal to the cleats, such that when the cleats pass by the scraper the scraper
       levels off the received seed so that the received seed is generally flush with the second
       edges of the cleats.

     WO 2014/008571                                                          PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                   17
5.     The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein the scraper is a brush.
6.     The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the conveyor is a continuous belt conveyor.
7.     The apparatus of Claim I wherein the conveyor is a circular conveyor.
8.     The apparatus of Claim I wherein the seed treatment applicator comprises a peristaltic
       pump and spray nozzles.
9.     The apparatus of Claim I further comprising a controller for controlling the conveyor
       drive mechanism and the seed treatment applicator.
10.    The apparatus of Claim 9 wherein the controller comprises a programmable logic
       controller, a data storage, a user interface, and a display.
I 1.   The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein the user interface and the display are collectively a
       touchscreen monitor.
12.    The apparatus of Claim I further comprising a channeling collar mounted on the
       conveyor intake for directing the seed toward the conveyor intake.
13.    The apparatus of Claim 12 wherein the channeling collar is upwardly biased so as to
       sealingly engage with a source of the seed.
14.    The apparatus of Claim I further comprising an extensible support on the housing for
       selectively elevating the second end of the conveyor.
15.    The apparatus of Claim I further comprising at least one ground-engaging wheel to
       enable relocation of the apparatus.
16.    A method for treating seed comprising the steps of:

    WO 2014/008571                                                              PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                  18
       a.      determining a seed density value for the seed;
       b.       metering the seed to determine a seed volume;
        c.      using the seed density value to convert the seed volume to a seed mass;
        d.      calculating an optimal seed treatment application rate based on the seed mass; and
        e.      applying seed treatment to the metered seed based on the optimal seed treatment
                application rate.
17.     A method for treating seed using a metering apparatus, the method comprising the steps
        of:
        a.      determining a seed density value for the seed;
        b.      using the metering apparatus to determine a seed volume flow through the
                apparatus:
        c.      using the seed density value to convert the seed volume flow to a seed mass flow
                through the apparatus;
        d.      calculating an optimal seed treatment application rate based on the seed mass
                flow; and
        e.      applying seed treatment to the metered seed based on the optimal seed treatment
                application rate.
18.     The method of Claim 17 wherein the apparatus comprises a metering conveyor and the
seed volume flow is determined on the basis of the volIme of the seed conveyed by the metering
conveyor.
19.     The method of Claim 17 wherein the apparatus comprises a programmable logic
controller that is programmed to convert the seed volume flow to the seed mass flow using the
determined seed density value.
20.     The method of Claim 19 wherein the programmable logic controller is programmed to
calculate the optimal seed treatment application rate based on the seed mass flow,

    WO 2014/008571                                                        PCT/CA2012/000641
                                                 19
21.    The method of Claim 17 wherein the apparatus comprises a seed treatment applicator for
applying the seed treatment to the metered seed.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
