   ABSTRACT
   An electrical venous stimulation apparatus comprising an electrical signal generator, the signal
   generator configured to generate a specified electrical output signal.        The apparatus also
   includes a plurality of electrodes in electrical communication with the signal generator and
 5 configured to be placed in electrical communication with a subject. The electrical output signal
   sent to the subject includes an output voltage, electrical, current, and waveform that changes
   with time in a preprogrammed repeating cycle.        The output voltage, electrical current, and
   waveform are configured to elicit a physiological response that stimulates a plurality of
   peripheral nerves in the subject, activates a venous muscle pump mechanism in one or more
10 limbs of the subject, and non-invasively alter the physiology of target vein(s), wherein the target
   vein(s) is caused to distend from under the surface of the subject's skin.

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
                   VENOUS ELECTRICAL STIMULATION APPARAT US
                                          AND METHODS
               This application is being filed on 15 September 2014, as a PCT international
  5    patent application, and claims priority to U.S, Provisional Patent Application No.
       61/878,869, fed September 17, 2013, the disclosure of which is hereby
       incorporated by reference herein in its entirety,
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
 10    10001.1     This disclosure relates to medical devices for providing improved venous
       access to aid in the drawing of blood from, administering fluids or drugs via, or
       insertion of a peripheral intravenous cannula into, the veins of a patient.
                                           BACKGROUND
 15    100021      The single standard practice for gawuing peripheral venous access in a
       medical patient has not changed significantly in over 80 years. Typically, the
       standard practice involves the use of a tourniquet applied to an upper portion of a
       patient's arm. The application of a tourmiquet stops the flow of blood to the heart and
       allows whatever pressure is available from the arteries and capillaries to fill and
 20    distend the veins. A medical practitioner, such as a doctor, physician's assistant,
       paramedic, or nurse, may then access the distended vein with a needle to draw
       blood, or insert a peripheral venous catheter or other such cannula into the distended
       vein to administer drugs or other fluids. This is a painful, sometimes dangerous,
       time consuming,mad inaccurate method.
 25    10003)       In a majority of patients, this approach is sufficient for either the
       drawing of blood for hematology analysis, or for the placement of an intravenous
       cannula to administer fluids, including but not limited to vohme expanders (e.g,
       colloids (e.g, blood, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch, stroma-free hemoglobin),
       crystalloids (e.   normal sane, Ringer's Lactate. glucose/dextrose, Hartmann's
 30    Solution), blood-based products (e.g red blood cells, plasma. platelets), blood,
       substitutes (e.g. oxygen-carrying substitutes), buffer solutions (e~g., intravenous
       sodium bicarbonate, Ringer's Lactate), nutritional fbmula (e,g_ peripheral

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       parenternal nutrition)t or drugs including but not limited to antibiotics, analgesics or
       chemotherapy into the blood stream of a patient. However in most patients, geriatric
       patients or cancer treatment patients for example, gaining venous access can be
       difficult and problematic for any number of reasons, which may lead to medical
  5    practitioners requiring multiple repeated attempts to successfully gain intravenous
       access to the patient's vein(s). Repeated attempts to gain venous access in a patient
       may result in a variety of adverse issues including hematomas, fluid infiltration into
       the surrounding tissue (which, with chemotherapy agents, can cause severe local
       reactions), pain, shock, discomfort, vasoconstriction, and in emergency situations,
 10    may require the practitioner to switch to either a central venous access approach or a
       "cut-down" (opening the tissue) to gain access to a vein.
       100041        There are many types of patients in whom these problems can result.
       Elderly or geriatric patients frequently have frail veins or are peripherally shut down
       due to dehydration. Pediatric and neonatal (newborn) patients are especially difficult
 15    to gain venous access to, due to small veins and the significant irmaturity of their
       bodies. Patients who have lost blood volume through trauma, shock, or dehydration
       (such as ER and paramedic patients, patients injured in road traffic accidents or
       military combat, crush victims, fimine victims, etc.) are likely to be peripherally
       shut down, making it difficult to locate and raise a vein, but are often the patients in
 20    whom medical practitioners most rapidly need to gain venous access. Obese patients
       are yet another patient group in which medical practitioners encounter difficulties in
       locating or raising a vein for venous access. Cancer treatment patients also present
       difficulties for medical practitioners to gain venous access due to, among other
       things, phlebitis.
 25    [0005         Other methodologies and devices have been employed to attempt to
       locate target veins for venipuncture or determine when a proper and successful
       venipuncture has been achieved. However, such devices and methodologies are
       either passive and non-invasive devices and techniques, or they are invasive
       mechanical devices and techniques that actually first require the puncture of the
 30    target vein in order to determine the position of the needle within the vein (which
       does not otherwise aid in locating the target vein or increasing the ease of inserting
       the needle into the target vein). One example of a passive technique and device is
                                                    2

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       the use of a strong source of visible or ultraviolet light placed against the skin of the
       patient in an attempt to read the reflectivity of the underlyingiron in the patient's red
       blood cells in the target vein, through the patient's skin, While this passive technique
       may help to locate a target vein, it does not increase the ease of achieving successful
  5    venipuncture, Additionally, the vein will often roll away front the needle when the
       medical practitioner tries to inset it. The drawback to using active mechanical
       devices that need to puticture the lumen to determine the position therein is that, if
       the machine performing the venipuncture goes too far and pushes the needle
       completely through the opposite side of the target vein, the result is a double
 10    penetration of the vein requiring the tip of the needle to be withdrawn back into the
       lumen of the vein, Accordingly such mechanical techniques are flawed in that they
       permit the possibility of a double penetration which may result in blood leaking
       from the second vein puncture causing a hematoma in the patient.
       100061       Accordingly, there is a need for a more rapid, reliable, less painfid, more
 15    efficient, safer, and repeatable method of distending a patient's veins in the hands,
       arms, feet. or legs to allow easier venous access by medical practitioners. In
       addition, there is a need for a medical apparatus that can cause a more rapid,
       reliable, and repeatable distension or expansion of veins in a patient's hands, arms,
       feet or legs across a broader patient spectrum including geriatric, pediatric, neonatal,
 20    and trauma patients, to assist medical practitioners in gainin venous access.
                                               SUM MARY
       100071      In general terms, this disclosure is directed to electrical venous
       stimulation. In one possible configuration and by non limiting example, the
 25    electrical venous stimulation is used to provide improved access to a vein, Various
       aspects are described in this disclosure, which include, but are not limited to, the
       following aspects.
       100081       One aspect is an electrical venous stimulation apparatus, for causing
       target veins in a subject to distend from under the surface of the subject's skin,
 30    comprising: a power supply; a signal generator powered by the power supply, the
       signal generator configured to generate a specified electrical output signal; and a
       plurality of electrodes in electrical communication with the signal generator and

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       configured to be placed in electrical cormmunication with the subject, wherein the
       electrical ou put signal includes an output voltage. electrical current, and waveform
       that changes with time in a preprogrammed repeating cycle, the output voltage,
       electrical current, and waveform being configured to elicit a physiological response
  5    that stimulates a plurality of peripheral nerves in the subject, activates a venous
       muscle pump mechanism in one or more limbs of the subject, and non-invasively
       alter the physiology of a target vein, wherein the target vein is caused to distend
       under the surface of the subjects skin,
       100091      Another aspect isa method of stimulating peripheral target veins to cause
 10    the veins to distend under the surface of a subject's skin to facilitate venipuncture,
       comprising: generating an adjustable electrical output signal with an electrical
       venous stimulation apparatus, the signal including an adjustable output voltage, an
       adjustable current, and an adjustable output voltage wave form configured to elicit a
       physiological venous response in the subject that causes the target vein in the sub ject
 15    to distend under the surface of the subject's skin, the electrical stimulation apparatus
       including, a powered signal generator configured to generate the adjustable electrical
       signal, and a plurality of electrodes in electrical communication with the signal
       generator and configured to be placed in electrical communication with the subject:
       and transmitting the output signal to the subject via the plurality of electrodes.
 20    100101      A further aspect is a method of suppressing pain signals at a venous
       needle stick site of a subject, comprising: generating an adjustable electrical output
       signal with an electrical venous stimulation apparatus, the signal including an
       adjustable output voltage, an adjtustable current, and an adjustable output voltage
       waveform configured to elicit a physiological venous response in the subject that
 25    causes the target vein in the subject to distend under the surface of the subject's skin,
       the electrical stimulation apparatus including, a powered signal generator configured
       to generate the adjustable electrical signal, and a plurality of electrodes in electrical
       communication with the signal generator and configured to be placed inelectrical
       conunmunication with the subject: and transmitting the output signal to the subject via
 30    the plurality of electrodes, and thereby stimulating the peripheral nerves and
       activating the venous pump mechanism in at least one limb of the subject.
                                                    4

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       [0011)       A further aspect is a method of accessing a vein of a person, the method
       comprising: receiving a portion of a limb of the person into a container; supplying a
       liquid electrolytic solution into the container, wherein the liquid electrolytic solution
       is i contact with the portion of the intb; electrically stimulating the portion of the
  5    limb with at least one signal generated by an electrical signal generator, the
       electrical signal provided to the electrolytic solution by at least one electrode in
       contact with the liquid electrolytic solution; causing at least one vein in the limb of
       the person to distend in response to the electrical stimulation; and inserting a tip of a
       needle into the vein while it is distended to access the vein.
 10    1001.21      Another aspect is a venou-s electrical stimulation apparatus for
       temporarily enlarging and distending the peripheral veins in the limbs of a patient to
       make it easier for a medical practitioner to gain venous access when drawing blood
       or when inserting an intravenous cannula., such as a catheter, into the vein. The
       venous electrical stimulation apparatus is configured to stimulate one or more
 15    muscles that form an anatomical part of the vein to cause the circumference of the
       vein's lumen to enlarge, thus making the target vein press against the skin, and
       simultaneously creating a vacuum in the target vein that can help increase the total
       volume of blood within the vein, which also helps make it easier and safer to
       perform venipuncture.
 20    10013]       Yet another aspect is an apparatus that includes a signal generator having
       a pair of electrical output terminals, a power supply in electrical communication
       with the signal generator, at least a pair of electrical leads in electrical
       communication at a proximal end with the output terminals of the signal generator,
       and at least a pair of electrodes in electrical communication with the proximal ends
 25    of the leads, and configured to introduce the electrical signal into a patient (or
       subject). The patient or subject can be a mammal, and more specifically, a human.
       100141       In another aspect the apparatus is configured to non-invasively alter the
       physiology of the peripheral veins that are targeted for venipuncture in the limbs of a
       patient using an active electrical signal, rather than using passive means traditionally
 30    used or requiring the use of a tourniquet. In an aspect of the present disclosure, an
       active signal imparted to the skin of a patient by the apparatus elicits a physiological
       response and a change in condition/behavior of the target vein, causing the vein to
                                                     5

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       fill with blood and become distendedenlarged and become more rigid, therefore
       increasing the visibility of the vein through the skin. In this manner, using such an
       apparatus and methodology, it becomes easier for medical practitioners to achieve
       successful and proper venipuncture. No other active device currently exists that non
  5    invasively changes the physiology of the tissue in and around the target veins to aid
       in locating the target vein and increasing the ease of achievingsuccessful and proper
       venipuncture without the need for multiple attempts.
       [00151       In yet another aspect, the electrical signal generator includes a plurality
       of capacitors and resistors. and at least one potentiometer for adjusting the output
 10    voltage. The electrical signal generator further includes programming configured to
       adjust the output signal, which may include one or more of the output voltage,
       output current, output voltage waveforn, and/or signal frequency that is imparted to
       the patient over time, to stimulate the venous pump action in the motor muscles of
       the patients limbs resulting in distension of the peripheral veins of a patient. In one
 15    embodiment, the electrical signal generator is configured to change the output
       voltage and the shape of the output voltage waveform. The output voltage
       determines how man' muscle fibers are recruited and fired (i.e. the muscle
       stimulation portion of the waveforn), as well as how much energy is used to fire the
       nerve impulses across the synaptic junction. The shape of the output voltage
 20    waveform detennines what information is communicated to the brain.
       [00161        In another aspect, the electrical signal generated is an AC signal of less
       than one mil liamp and the output voltage from the potentiometer is in the range of 0
       to 90 volts.
       [0017]        In another aspect, the electrical signal generator generates a specific
 25    predefined output voltage waveform that is imparted to the skin overlying the limbs
       of the patient. One portion of the generated electrical waveform is specifically tuned
       to the frequency, duty cycle, pulse width, and voltage at which the tiny muscles
       surrounding the target veins exhibit a physical response, resulting in muscular
       expansion and contraction. This predeued waveform and the resulting response in
 30    the veins makes them rigid and enlarges their circumference. Another portion of the
       predefined waveform stimulates the nearby nerves in the skin to override any pain
       signals in the body resulting from the needle stick, This nerve stimulation reduces
                                                     6

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       the pain and anxiety usually acconpanying a venipuncaure. Still another portion of
       the electrical signal stinutlates the brain to release endorphinls to the body, thereby
       reducig anxiety in the patient.
       100181       In another aspect of the present disclosure is a method of providing
  5    medical practitioners with peripheral venous access in patients while suppressing
       pain signals at a venous needle stick site by stimulating the peripheral nerves and
       activating the venous pump mechanism in the limbs of a patient using an external
       electrical stimulation apparatus, thereby causing the peripheral nerves to distend and
       become more visible under the surface of the skin
 10    1001.91      In another aspect, for nonemergency patients, one benefit to using soic
       embodiments disclosed herein is the reduction of the time spent by medical
       practitioners acquiring venous access and the reduction of the number of failed
       attempts at venous access in patient groups whom medical practitioners historically
       have had difficulties gaining venous access. Furthermore, in emergency situations
 15    and for emergency patients, having the ability to gain rapid venous access can
       increase the speed with which vital fluids and/or drugs may be administered, thereby
       potentially saving vital minutes and patient lives,
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 20    10020]      The figures are for illustration purposes only and not necessarily drawn
       to scale. However, the present disclosure may be best understood by reference to the
       detailed description which follows when taken in conjunction with the
       accompanying drawings.
       10021.]      FIG. I is a top front isometric view of an example embodiment of an
 25    electrical vein stimulation and expansion apparatus of the present disclosure.
       100221        FIG. 2 is a top isometric view of the electrical vein stinulaion and
       expansion apparatus of FIG. 1, showing the cover of the electrical signal generator
       in an open position to expose the intemal circuitry and electrical components of the
       example electrical signal generator.
 30    100231      FIG, 3 is another top isometric view of the electrical vein stiundation and
       expansion apparatus of FIG,1,

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       100241       FIG. 4 is a another top front isometric view of the electrical vein
       stimulation and expansion apparatus of FIG I. showing the apparatus ready for use
       wherein a patient has her fingertips placed in containers of electrolyte solution that
       are electrically connected to the signal generator of the apparatus.
  5    10025]       FIG. 5 isa another top front isometric view of the electrical vein
       stimulation and expansion apparatus of FIG. 1, showing the apparatus in use and
       illustrating the distending and protruding of the patient's veins.
       100261       FIG. 6 is an electrical schematic of an embodiment of a signal generator
       of the electrical vein stimulation and expansion apparatus of the present disclosure.
 10    100271       FIG. 7 is a waveform graph of the output voltage vs. time for one cycle
       of the output signal such as generated by the signal generator shown in FIG. 6,
       100281       FIG. 8 is a waveform graph illustrating another example waveform.
       100291       FIG. 9 is a waveform graph illustrating another example waveform.
 15                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
       100301       Various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the
       drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts and assemblies
       throughout the several views, Reference to various embodiments does not limit the
       scope of the claims attached hereto. Additionally, any examples set forth in this
 20    specification are not intended to be limiting and merely set forth sonie of the many
       possible embodiments for the appended claims.
       100311       While the present disclosure is capable of embodiment in various forms,
       there is shown in the drawings, and will be hereinafter described, one or more
       presently preferred embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure
 2$    is to be considered as an exemplification of the invention, and is not intended to
       limit the invention to the specific embodiments illustrated herein. Headings are
       provided for convenience only and are not to be construed to limit the invention in
       any way. Embodiments illustrated under any heading may be combined with
       embodiments illustrated under any other headingu.
 30    100321        Referring to FIGS V-5, in general, disclosed herein is an electrical
       stimulation apparatus I configured to deliver an electrical signal through the arms or
       other limbs of a patient and cause the veins in the hands andior anns of the patient to
                                                    8

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       distend or expand and thereby become more visible under the surrounding surthce of
       the skin. Such signals can be delivered directly to one limb; up one limb, tip through
       the limb, across the spine, and/or down through the other limb, for example. In
       doing so, the stimulation apparatus makes the peripheral veins in the arms or hands
  5    of the patient more visible., thereby providing a medical practitioner venous access
       for the drawing of blood or the insertion of a peripheral venous canintla. The
       apparatus is generally placed in electrical communication with a patient's hands
       and/or arms (or other lirnbs) by a pair of electrodes or other electrical signal delivery
       device, that connects the device to the patient's arms to deliver a predetermined
 10    electrical signal through the electrically connected limbs of the patient.
       [00331        The veins thus become filled with blood while being subjected to the
       electrical stimulation, increasing the internal pressure within the veins, The
       increased pressure in the veins makes them more rigid, thereby increasing the
       physical resistance, or force, required to insert a needle or other intravenous
 15    cannulas therein. The increased physical resistance of the target vein permits the
       medical practitioner to have an Unproved physical feel for the insertion of the needle
       into the vein, and to better differentiate instances when the tip of the needle has been
       correctly inserted into the central lumen of the vein, from instances in which the
       needle has pierced through the vein (which can cause serious medical
 20    complications).
       [00341        Ingeneral, the electrical stimulation apparatus I comprises an electrical
       signal generator 10, a power supply 12 in electrical cormrunication with the signal
       generator and configured to supply power thereto. at least a pair of electrical leads
       14 connected at a proximal end to a plurality of electrical output terminals 16 of the
 25    electrical signal generator, and at least a pair of electrodes 18 connected to a distal
       end of each of the electrical leads 14.
       10035]        The electrical power supply 12 may be a portable power supply, such as
       for example a 9-volt battery, other voltage battery, or rechargeable battery.
       Alternatively, the power supply may utilize a standard electrical power cord that
 30    plugs into a typical power outlet in a wall.
       100361       An example of the electrical signal generator 10 is shown in FG. 6.
       Also shown in FIG, 6 are the power supply 12, electrical lead 14, container 28, and
                                                    9

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       electrolytic solution 30. Some embodiments include two or more electrical signal
       generators 10, coupled to one or more leads 14, electrodes 18, and containers 28.
       100371       The electrical signal generator 10 comprises electronic circuitry 20
       operable to generate an electrical output signal, such as having one of the wavefomis
  5    illustrated and described with reference to FIGS. 7-9, or another suitable wavelorm.
       In some eibodiments the electronic circuitry 20 includes electronics such as one or
       more of resistors, capacitors., transformers, and a microprocessor in electrical
       communication with each other. In the example shown in FIG. 6, the electronic
       circuitry 20 of the electrical signal generator 10 includes a power switch 50,
 10    oscillator 52 variable control 54, and output circuitry 56 In this example the
       oscillator 52 includes an integrated circuit, such as a microcontroller 62. The output
       circuitry 56 includes a first stage 58, such as including operational amplifiers 64 and
       66 and capacitor 68, and a second stage 60, including transfonner 70. The output of
       the second stage 60 forms the output terminal 16, which can be electrically coupled
 15    to the lead 14 and electrode 18, to deliver the output signal to the patient,
       100381       The oscillator 52 operates to generate an initial oscillating signal. In this
       example, the oscillator includes a square wave generator, One example of a square
       wave generator is a microcontroller, such as the 8-pin, flash-based 8-bit CMOS
       microcontroller, part number PIC 12F675, available front Microchip Technology Inc.
 20    of Chandler, AZ. US. Another example of a square wave generator is a 555 timer.
       The square wave generator produces a squarewave signal, which oscillates between
       low and high voltages, such as between 0 arid 5 volts. In this example the square
       wave has a frequency in a range from 4 Hz to 12 Hz. As one example the frequency
       is 7.83 Hz. Frequencies in this range have been found to be preferred over faster
 25    frequencies because they give the nerves in the patient time to repolarize after
       stimulation before the next stimulation. The frequency can be higher for a heathly
       person whose nerves can repolarize more quickly, while the frequency typically
       needs to be lower for an unhealthy person whose nerves require more time to
       repolarize.
 30    100391       In some embodiuents the signal generator 10 includes a variable control
       54, such as one or more potentiometers 22, 24 in electrical communication with the
       electronic circuitry of the signal generator 10. The one or more variable controls 54
                                                   10

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       allow an operator, such as a medical practitioner, the patient, or another person to
       provide an input to adjust the magnitude of the signal generated by the signal
       generator 10, such as to increase or decrease the magnitude of the signal. In this
       example, each potentiometer 22, 24 that is present in the signal generator
  5    corresponds to a separate output voltage channel (each having its own signal
       generator 10) having its own leads 14 and electrodes 18, and whose voltage is
       adjusted by its own intensity adjustment knob coupled to the variable control 54 that
       adjusts/sets the output voltage of that channel that is sent from the signal generator
       10 to the patient via the leads 14 and electrodes 18. The ability to adjust the output
 10    voltage experienced by the patient allows a patient to have the voltage adjusted
       down to a comfortable level, which therefore contributes to lowering the patient's
       anxiety over use of the device, which thus reduces the chance of any anxiety or
       stress induced vasoconstriction that can reduce the amount of blood within the
       targeted veins,
 15    [00401        I one embodiment, the signal generator 10 includes two variable
       controls (e.g., potentiometers 2.2. 24), and therefore may have two separate output
       voltage channels each having its own signal generator 10, with each intensity knob
       atid variable control 54 separately adjusting the output voltage to be sent to the
       patient along two sets of electrodes, corresponding to each of the two output voltage
 20    channels. A first of the two potentiometers 22 and its respective output voltage
       channel impart an output voltage to the patient that is configured to cause the target
       vain to become swollen or distended. A second of the two potentiometers 24 and its
       respective output voltage channel impart an output voltage to the patient that is
       configured to stop the pain at the needle stick site by interrupting nerve signals
 2$    associated with pain. In the present embodiment, the two output voltage channels are
       identical. but in alternate embodiments, each potentiometer may be configured to
       adjust the output voltage in differing ranges. 1-aving two separate channels, each
       with the ability to adjust the output voltage, allows the stimulation apparatus I to be
       configured to adapt to target veins in the foot, neck, elbow, or other such target eWin
 30    sites.
       100411      In this example the electronic circuitry 20 of the signal generator 10
       further includes output circuitry 56. The output circuitry operates to convert the
                                                   11

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       square wave signal generated by the oscillator 52 into a desired output signal, such
       as having a waveform shown in one of FIGS 7-9
       100421       The first stage 58 of the output circuitry includes electronics including
       operational amplihers 64 alnd 66, and a capacitor 68, The first stage 58 is coupled to
  5    the variable control 54 to receive the Input from a user to adjust the magnitude of the
       signal generated by the signal generator 10. In this example, the variable control 54
       is a potentiometer that provides a variable resistance, The variable control 54 is
       electrically coupled to an input of the operational amplifier 64, The vohage of the
       signal provided by the variable control 54 changes as the variable control. is
 10    adjusted. The operational amplifier 64 is configured as a unity gain buffer amplitier
       in this example, In some emobdiments the variable control operates to adjust the
       magnitude of an output voltage so that the magnitude is adjustable from 0 volts to 40
       volts, In some embodiments the maximum output voltage is within              10% of 40
       volts, Other embodiments have other ranges of output voltages, In some
 15    embodiments the current delivered depends on the patient's natural electrical
       resistance. the surface area stimulated, and other factors such as the conductivity of
       the connecting medium (e ,g., water, vs gel), self adhesive electrodes, amount of oil
       on skin, capacitance of the patient, and other technical / anatomical factors such as
       dehydration and the stress level of the patient,
 20    [0043        The oscillator 52 generates a square wave output (e.g pin 7.) that is then
       supplied to the capacitor 68. The capacitor 68 converts the square wave signal to a
       series of pulses having a leading edge with a sharp voltage transition, followed by a
       trailing edge in which the voltage tapers off.The signal is then provided to the
       second stage 60 where it is further filtered and amplified such as using the anplifier
 25    including operational amplitier 66 arranged in a non-inverting configuration.
       100441       The amplified signal is then provided to the second stage 60, including
       the transformer 70... which operates to ampli fy and rectify\ the signal.
       [00451       in some embodiments the transformer 70 has an unequal ratio of
       windims. As one example, the transformer is a 10: 1 transftrmer, which is arranged
 30    in a step-up configuration to increase the voltage at the output In other possible
       embodiments the transformer can be arranged in a step-down configuration. Other
                                                   12

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       embodinrents have other ratios of winding, The output can also be generated in the
       second stage without usingr a transformer in yet other embodimets.
       100461       i this example the transformer 70 is a center tap transformer. The
       oscillating signal generated by the first stage 58 is provided to the primary winding
  5    and the center tap, and operates in conj unction with a pair of diodes to rectify the
       output signal. The output sinial is generated at the secondary windings and supplied
       to the output terminal 16, The ratio of the primary windings to the secondary
       findings determines the amplification provided by the transformer 70.
       100471      In some embodiments, the circuitry 20 further includes electronic
 10    components, and/or programming, that are configured to automatically vary the
       output signal, which may include varying one or more of the output voltage, the
       output current, shape of the output voltage waveform, and/or frequency of the output
       signal over time, without having to adjust the variable controls (e.g. potentiometers
       22 24). In one embodiment, the output signal may be changed over time by
 15    executing specific computer code or a software program in the microprocessor. In
       another embodiment, the output signal may be randomly changed inexpensively by
       the inclusion of a tp ical flashing light emitting diode (LED) 63 within the circuitry
       of the signal generator 10. Flashing LEDs automatically blink when supplied with
       electrical power, alternating between an "on" and "off state, with the frequency of
 20    flashing between the two states depending on the input voltage. In one embodiment,
       the flashing LED is placed in the electronic circuitry downstream of the
       microprocessor and upstream of the amphfying circuit that is connected to the
       output leads that are attached to the patient by the electrodes. The flashing LED,
       oscillating between an "on" and "off state, is constanly switching the output current
 25    on and off, causing the signal generator 10 to vary the electrical output signal and
       voltage over time, according to the flashing frequency oft1h flashing LED, In this
       manner, the LED acts as a repetitive timer fir the output signal from the signal
       generator, And because the frequency of the LED is dependent on its input voltage,
       adjusting the voltage from the potcninmetCr will change the frequency of the
 30    flashing LED, so as to provide an infinitely variable output signal to the paint.
       100481      Furthermore, the lower the quality of the components used to make the
       flashing LED, as with inexpensive flashing LEDs, the more variation or randonmess
                                                   13

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       there will be in the consistency or stableness of the frequency of the flashing for a
       given voltage. Accordingly, lower quality flashing LEDs provide a flashing pattern
       tiat is more random than that of higher quality flashing LEDs. Therefore, in one
       embodiment, to achieve more randomness in the frequency of the electrical signal
  5    sent to the patient from the signal generator 10, it may be beneficial to use lower
       quality flashing LED within the circuitry as disclosed herein.
       [00491       In still alternate embodiments, additional methods to vary the output
       signal and voltage over time are contemplated herein, wiithout departing from the
       scope of the present disclosure. By varying the output signal in the manner disclosed.
 10    herein, the patient's body is constantly reacting to the changing output signal, rather
       than possibly becoming accustomed to a constant output signal to which the venous
       system might otherwise no longer respond after a short exposure thereto,
       10050]       The signal generator 10 may also include at least one indicator 32, such
       as an LED or other lighted indicator, to indicate to the medical practitioner utilizing
 15    the electrical stimulation apparatus I as to when the power to te apparatus is turned
       "on." An additional indicator may be included to indicate when the electrical signal
       is being sent to a patient, In one embodiment, the indicator may perform both
       functions, however, in alternate enbodinents, separate indicators may be utilized to
       comniunicate each of the two functions.
 20       051]      The apparatus I may also include programmiing and/Or a display screen
       confgured to communicate and display for the medical practitioner the real time
       output voltage and signal, an initial set output voltage and signal, fault conditions,
       stimulation apparatus fault diagnostic information, or any other such setting, output,
       or feedback information as may be desired. In another embodinent, the apparatus 1
 25    may include a display configured to graphically display the real time electrical
       information (e       the electrical sinal and/or voltage vs, time) being sent to the
       patient. In still further embodiments. the stimulationapparatus I may include data
       output programming and associated output connectors that are configured to permit
       the apparattis to be connected to a separate, stand-alone external display for
 30    displaying any/all of the information disclosed herein.
       100521      In some embodiments the electronic circuitry 20 is arranged on one or
       more circuit boards, The circuit boards incide at least one substate layer, and
                                                    14

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       typically have at least one layer of electrical traces fonned thereon to make electrical
       connections between the electronic components. in some embodiments the
       electronic signal generator 10 is formed on the circuit board.
       100531       The output signal is sent from the signal generator 10 to the patient's
  5    body by two electrical leads 26 that are connected at a proximal end to the signal
       generator 10, and at a distal end to a pair of electrodes 18- In one embodiment of the
       present disclosure, the electrodes 18 may be configured as a pair of cups or other
       containers 28, such as for example, a pair of manicure nail soaking bowls or other
       such similar containers, that are configured to hold a liquid electrolyte solution 30
 10    into which at least some of the finger and. thumb tips (or more) of a patient are to be
       submerged. In some embodiments the electrodes are connected to or otherwise
       associated with the containers 28, such as being fastened to an interior of the
       container by an adhesive or molded into the container. The electrodes can also be
       placed into the container without being securely fastened to the container in some
 15    embodiments. In some embodiments the container is conductive, such that the
       container functions as an electrode. In some embodiments the containers include
       one or more recessed regions sized and shaped to receive at least the tips of the
       fingers of a hand, or the toes of a foot, therein, The purpose of using an electrolyte
       solution is to provide a conductive liquid medium into which the patient may place
 20    his fingers and through which the electrical signal may be delivered to the patient In
       one embodiment, the electrolyte solution may be a mix of minerals and water.
       However, in alternate embodiments, the electrolyte solution may be any other type
       of solution used for increasing electrical conductivity between the electrical leads
       and the skin of a patient.
 25     0054        While a previous embodiment disclosed the electrodes configured as
       small containers for permitting the fingertips to be placed into an electrolyte
       solution, the electrodes should not be limited to such embodiment and in alternate
       embodiments may have alternate configurations as desired. For example, in alternate
       embodiments, the electrodes may be alternate sized containers that permit the
 30    submersion of a patient's full hands, feetor any portion of the patient's body,
       including but not limited to arms and/br legs, into an electrolyte solution in electrical
       communication with the signal generator. In still alernate embodiments, the
                                                    15

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       electrodes may be configured as a pair of conductive electrode pads having a
       conductive gel or adhesive layer disposed on one side thereof to help adhere the
       electrode pad to the skin of a patient and to aid in making good electrical contact
       between the conductive pad and the patient's skin. Such electrode pads may be
  5    similar to those used with transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)
       devices or portable defibrillators. Furthermore, in still alternate embodiments, the
       electrodes may be one or more of a metal pin-type probe or metal plate that are
       contact based electrodes, In still alternate embodiments, the electrode may be a
       finger clamp-type probe that is similar in mechanical structure to those used to
 10    measure pulse oximetry. In yet additional embodiments, the electrodes rnav be
       conductive garments, or other such contact-based electrode having an alternate
       physical configuration, without departing from the scope of the disclosure herein. In
       yet an additional embodiment, the electrodes may be configured as one or more
       electromagnets that generate a magnetic field, into which magnetic field the patient
 15    may place his hands, feet, or limbs. The electromagnetic field is configured to
       generate a complementary electric signal in the patient's body via changes to the
       magnetic field. In such an enbodinient, the patient is not directly connected to the
       signal generator,
       [0055]        In one embodiment, the electrical signal output from the signal generator
 20    10 sent to a patient's limbs through the electrodes includes an electrical signal that is
       an alternating signal (AC) In one embodiment, the AC signal sent to the patient has
       a frequency of 7,83 Hiz (or 7,83 full altematirg c cles per second), This means that
       the output circuit is interrupted 7.83 times per second. This frequency of 7.83 Hz has
       been selected in one embodiment to provide the nerves of the patient time to
 25    repolarize between successive output signals, and thus have time to get prepared for
       the next subsequent output signal By providing adequate time to allow the nerves to
       repolarize, the signal generated by the signal generator 10 has a consistent effect on
       the skin, nerves, and muscles in the vicinity of the electrodes,
       [00561        However, while the above embodiment operates at a frequency of 7,83
 30    1-1;. the frequency of the output signal should not be read to be limited only to such
       specified frequency, and in alternate embodiments, the AC or DC signal may have a
       different frequency without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In
                                                   1.6

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       alternate embodiments, the frequency of the output signal may be any alternate
       frequency, depending on the specific circuitry design of the signal generator. For
       example, in an alternate embodiment, a different duty cycle or output cycle, or even
       a different waveforn that is subsequently developed, may use a different frequency.
  5    Purthermore, in alternate embodi ments, the signal generator 10 may be configured to
       adjust the frequency or waveform of the output signal based on sensed. feedback
       related to the physiological differences between patients of different ages, the
       patient's circulatory system patency, and other biomedical and/or bioelectrical
       aspects of the patient's body In one embodiment, the microprocessor in the signal
 10    generator 10 may further contain programming that adjusts the output signal for the
       changes that are usually associated with an aging patient, such as thinner skin, more
       sensitive skin, skin that is sensitive to bleeding, etc.
       100571        In one embodiment. the output voltage from the signal generator 10,
       which is set by at least one of the potentiometers 22, 24, is initially set to be within
 15    the range of between 0 volts and 90 volts. In another embodiment, each of the two
       output voltage channels may be set to be within the range of between 0 volts and 90
       volts. However, in alternate embodiments. the potentiometers 22, 24 may have
       larger or smaller output voltage ranges than that disclosed herein, and may each be
       selectably set to an initial output voltage value, or adjusted to a new output voltage
 20    value, within such larger or smaller voltage ranges. without departing from the scope
       of the present disclosure,
       100581       FEEDBACK SYSTEM
       [0059         The signal generator 10 may further include an integrated feedback
       system that is configured to measure the resistance and capacitance of the patient's
 25    body during the time between each successive cycle of the output signal. In one
       embodiment, the feedback system utilizes a ten to one (10: 1) audio transformer that
       responds to the electrical and capacitive resistance (i., electrical back pressure) of
       the patient's body, as well as any changes thereto, in order to adjust the output signal
       sent to the patient. Each human body presents with an electrical resistance. This
 30    resistance can change with the body's weight, hydration, etc. This electrical
       resistance can also change during the treatment The signal generator 10 uses the
       audio transformer to measure the electrical resistance of the patient's body and, in
                                                    17

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       response, appropriately alter the output voltage and/or current transmitted to the
       patient as part of the signal. In doing so. the signal may be altered based on the
       feedback from the feedback system to ensure that the signal generator I0 is eliciting
       the same clinical or physiological response in the patients body, even when the
  5    patient's bodily response to treatment is changing (i.e. changes to the patient's
       electrical back pressure, or bodily resistance and/or capacitance).
       [00601        A simple transformer performs the job of monitoring the electrical back
       pressure of the patient's body simply and inexpensively, When the microprocessor,
       via the transformer in electrical communication with the patient, detects a very high
 10    electrical resistance in the patient's body, then very little current will flow from the
       signal generator into the patient for a given constant output voltage from the signal
       generator to the patient. If the input current from the signal generator is very low (as
       when powered by a small battery), and if the output voltage leads do not have much
       resistance, then the battery power decreases and the current drops significantly. The
 15    measured electrical resistance of the human body is fairly constant, but the
       capacitance of the human body can vary greatly. This is a concern, because the
       sudden release of electrical energy or charge from the capacitor-like parts of the
       human body can result in the body receiving a painful jolt of electricity that may
       potentially cause damage to the patient's nervous or cardiac system, and otherwise
 20    interrupt the desired clinical response in the patient's body caused by the treatment.
       [00611        The transformer of the feedback system filters an output voltage of the
       signal generator, which voltage fluctuates over tine according to a preprogrammed
       voltage waveform, to allow the specific portions of the voltage waveform that are
       the most effective at eliciting the desired vein distension response to pass through to
 25    the patient, The electrical back pressure in the patient causes a reaction in the
       patient's body that creates a resulting electrical signal from the patient's body that
       can be captured and read by the signal generator, which can then be used as an input
       to adjust the output voltage of the next cycle of the output signal from the signal
       generator.
 30    100621       In alernate embodiments. the feedback niechianism may be specific
       programming within the microprocessor of the signal generator that is configured to
       monitor the feedback of the patient's electrical resistance and capacitance and, in
                                                    18

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       turn, adjust the output signal sent to the patient based on the monitored feedback. In
       still altemate embodiments, the feedback system may utilize a plurality of sensors
       configured to measure the patients resistance and capacitance, or any other such
       electrical component or computer code configured to measure feedback resistance
  5    and capacitance, without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
       100631       In one embodiment, the apparatus I can be configured to stop all output
       signals from the signal generator 10 and wait for the patients body to react to the
       last output signal When the patients body reacts to the last signal the patients body
       produces a resulting electrical signal that can be captured by the signal generator 10,
 10    analyzed, and. used to alter the next output signal from the signal generator 10 that is
       sent to the patient, This can be done in real time with the appropriate microprocessor
       and software. In an altenate embodiment, if the feedback mechanism of the signal
       generator measures a change in a patients bioelectrical resistance or capacitance of
       more than 10% between successive cycles of the output signals, the signal generator
 15    is configured to shut off or go into a fault mode, as a change of larger than I 0% may
       indicate that the patient's body is experiencing a stress response and no is longer
       responding to the output signals. In one embodiment, the signal generator would
       automatically adjust the output signal waveform, voltage, and current based on the
       individual patient's specific physiology and related bioelectrical properties.
 20    10064]       In still further embodiments, the signal generator includes software to
       collect physiological data from the patient using the stimulation apparatus, including
       the patients physiological response data. That data can then be stored and analyzed
       by the signal generator and used to change the output signal in real time, so as to
       optimize the output signal and the achieved venous response for the specific patient.
 25    [0065]       Included in the signal generator may be a microprocessor having
       programming therein configured to control the amount of current and voltage being
       sent to the patient via the electrodes, as well as the shape of the output voltage
       waveform that is being sent to the patient, monitor the electrical feedback received
       from the patient (i.e. the patients internal bodily resistance and capacitance), and
 30    automatically adjust, in real. time, any of the voltage output, the current output, or
       the shape of the voltage waveform being sent to the patient. 'The microprocessor
       may be any programmable microprocessor having any speed or internal memory
                                                   1.9

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       size without departing form the scope of the present disclosure, In one embodiment,
       the microprocessor may include a comparator circuit configured to compare the
       original output signal sent to the patient from the signal generator to the returned
       signal from the patient. The results of the comparison are then used by the
  5    microprocessor to change the output signal proportionately to balance the next
       output signal sent to the patient. In such an embodiment, the microprocessor may
       have a baseline waveform stored in its memory which is sent to the patient with the
       first signal. A response/reflex signal is then sent back to tie icroprocessor from the
       patient through the feedback system, which response/reflex signal is also stored in
 10    the microprocessor. Thereafter, the microprocessor adapts the next outgoing signal
       based on the prior stored incoming response/reflex signal to gently coax the patient's
       nerves to carry the best waveform, voltage, and current necessary to produce the
       greatest visible presentation of the vein. This comparative process ensures that the
       output signal being set to the patient each time will continue to elicit the desired
 15    physiological and clinical response in the peripheral veins of the patient, preventing
       the patient's body from getting accustomed to the signal being sent.
       100661        Furthermore, the processor includes programming configured to
         maintain a predefined signal frequency, For example, in one embodiment, the
       microprocessor is programmed to maintain a preprogranuned signal frequency of
 20    7.83Hz. However, in alternate embodiments, alternate frequencies may be chosen
       without departing from the present disclosure. For example, in some patient groups
       or subsets, such as obese patients, geriatric patients, or neonatal patients, alternate
       signal frequencies may be needed to aid in eliciting the optimal venous presentation
       results, In addition, in an embodiment, the microprocessor may be programmed and
 25    configured to continue to operate properly on a constantly declining voltage, such as
       for example when the power supply is a battery that slowly runs out of power over
       time and continued use
       100671        WAVEFORM GRAPH
       [00681        FIG. 7 shows an exemplary graph of an embodiments of active portions
 30    of a single cycle of a signal. The graph shows an output voltage (the Y-axis) of the
       output signal, versus time in milliseconds (the X-Axis), that is able to illicit the
       desired vein distension and pain suppression response in a patient. The shape of the
                                                   20

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       signal, including the location and ampitude of the various peaks and valleys therein,
       is an exemplary waveform that is able to elicit active, signal-based enlargement of
       the target peripheral veins, which aids in the performing of venipuncture by medical
       practitioners, for example,
  5    10069]       Referring further to FIG. 7, a plurality of points 1-9 are identified on the
       graphed waveform showing the output signal's output voltage vs- time. Point I on
       the graph corresponds to the beginning of a new cycle of the repetitive output signal,
       and indicates the initial output voltage from the signal generator that is selected to
       alert or stimulate a patient's sensory nerve (via its dendrites in the surface of the
 10    skin) to a change in condition. This initial output voltage initiates a tiny electrical
       signal in the patients body., having a unique voltage, current, and waveform, to be
       sent to the central nervous system so the brain can monitor the extremities. In
       response, the brain sends a healing signal back to that specific sensory dendrite from
       which the signal to the brain originated.
 15    [00701       Point 2 on the graph corresponds to the primary effective portion of the
       nerve stimulation signal. This point is the main output voltage in the nerve
       stimulating portion of the output signal that causes the peripheral nerves in the
       patient's limbs to over-react and causes a simultaneous tetany or contraction of the
       nearby muscles surrounding the target peripheral veins. This is the portion of the
 20    waveform that is adjusted via the knob of one of the potentiometers 22., 24 on the
       signal generator. In overweight patients, the voltage level at Point 2 is automatically
       suppressed by a layer of fit in the skin. Accordingly, for overweight patients, In
       order to get the signal to reach the nerves of the patient and overcome the resistance
       of the fat layer, it may be necessary to send a higher output voltage to the patient.
 25    This can be accomplished by using a ten to one (10:1) audio transformer, or other
       such transformer, in the signal generator to amplify the output voltage signal sent to
       the patient. Alternatively, the increasing of the voltage to overcome the resistance of
       the fat layer so the signal may reach the nerves may also be accomplished by the
       implementation of programming contained in the microprocessor.
 30    10071.1      Point 3 in the voltage waveform graph corresponds to the output voltage
       that triggers the sensory nerve in the patient to "turn off' In this regard, Point 3 is the
       voltage that triggers the nerve to be at rest and reset to its standby voltage, waiting to
                                                   21

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       be used or triggered "on" again in the next subsequent cycle of the output signal.
       Point 4 in the voltage waveform graph is the output voltage that cancels the positive
       portion of the signal and balances the stimulation apparatus nerve signal to allow
       the nerve time to reset itself, or repolarize.
  5    10072]       Point 5 in the waveform graph corresponds to the iuscle stimulation
       portion of the output signal, and is the output voltage that causes the muscles to
       stimulate the venous muscle punp that in turn causes the veins to distend and fill
       with blood, In the waveform presented in FIG. 7, the length of time during which
       this portion of the signal is active is small, however in some patients the length of
 10    time over which this portion of the output voltage in the output signal is active will
       be adjusted to achieve the proper amount of motor muscle stimulation to activate the
       venous muscle pump. The longer that this portion of the signal is active, the more
       that the muscles are stimulated. In addition, the small muscles surrounding the veins
       require a different amount of active stimulation time to activate the venous muscle
 15    pump action than that of the larger muscles. This portion of the waveform also may
       be adjusted from patient to patient to achieve the optimal venous muscle pump
       action in each patient.
       [00731       Point 6 in the waveform graph is the point at which the motor muscle
       stimulation is shut ofl to allow them to reset and get ready for the next cycle of the
 20    signal. Point 7 in the waveform graph corresponds to a reflex signal back pressure
       from the patient's peripheral nervous system, indicating that the nervous system Is
       trying to take over control of the nerves and muscles and stabilize the patient's
       muscle and nerve activity. Point 8 in the waveform graph corresponds to a period of
       zero output voltage to the patient, and is part of the integrated feedback loop that the
 2$    peripheral nervous system uses to gently restore the patient's baseline electrical
       potential back to its original resting electrical potential, or internal voltage. In
       comfortable, relaxed patients, their resting potential, or measured voltage, may' be on
       the order of 20 millivolts. However, in some patients who are anxious, their
       measured resting potential may be zero volts, or a positive measured voltage, which
 30    are otherwise higher electrical potentials or voltages than a typical relaxed patient.
       This initial resting potential measurement is used to setup the basic parameters of the
       first and each succeeding treatment output signal from the signal generator.
                                                     22

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       100741       Point 9 in the wavefor    gtaph corresponds to the patient's baseline
       condition, whereby there is no active output signal or voltage being sent to the
       patient's body, and the patient is otherwise unaffected by any output signal from the
       sti mutation apparatus. This also corresponds to the period during which the signal
  5    generator is monitoring the patient's internal electrical potential and preparing to
       intiate a new cycle of the signal, and adjusting the active portion of the output
       signal based on the feedback monitored from the patient,
       100751       FIGS, 8-9 illustrate other example waveforms that can be used in other
       embodiments, or with different subjects due to different characteristics of the
 10    subjects.
       100761       In some embodiments, the waveform has one or more of the following
       properties. The highest voltage reached stimulates the muscles surrounding the
       veins, The width of the signal from the baseline until the return the baseline
       stimulates the nearby voluntary motor muscles to function as a venous muscle pump
 15    to empty the adjacent veins of blood. The return to baseline stops the action of both
       muscles. The negative pulse following the first return to baseline begins the return
       to the original resting state of the muscles and nerves, The negative pulse delivers a
       negative polarity pulse that with a volume of energy (eg watts) that equals the
       energy delivered in the original positive polarity phase. The second return to
 20    baseline finishes the polarity balancing. The time period until the next signal allows
       the nerve and muscle cells to re-organize and prepare for the next sequence of
       stimulation. Other waveforms have other properties.
       100771       APPARATUS OPERATION AND STiMULATION ACTION
       10078]       In operation, the stimulation apparatus functions as follows. The
 25    electrodes are placed in electrical contact with the fingers or hands of a patient. In
       one embodiment, this involves the patient placing the fingertips of each hand into
       separate containers of an electrolyte solution. The electrolyte solution in each
       container is placed in electrical communication with the signal generator by separate
       electrical leads that are terminated at one end in the electrolyte solution, and at the
 30    opposite end to output contacts of the signal generator In alternate embodiments,
       the electrodes may be adhesive backed pads that are affixed directly to the patient's
       skin,
                                                   23

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
       100791        The power source supplies power to the signal generator. The medical
       practitioner adjusts the output voltage to the patient by rotating an adjusiment knob
       of at least one of two potentiometers. The signal generator is switched "on" and the
       preprogrammed electrical output signal is transmitted through the leads and
  5    electrodes to the fingertips, hands, and arms of tihe patient. The preprogrammed
       output signal includes a repetitive cycle of preprogrammed fluctuating output
       voltages at various specified points in time for each cycle. In one embodiment, the
       initial output voltage may be set between 0 and 90 volts and the signal delivered is
       less than one milliamp However, in alternate embodiments, the output voltage range
 10t   may be larger or smaller, or cover a different voltage range than that disclosed in the
       present embodiment, and the output signal may be larger than 1milliamp without
       departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
       100801        Each cycle of the output electrical signal includes a period of active
       output voltage and a period of rest, where no output voltage is being imparted to the
 15    patient's limbs. The preprogrammed output voltage includes several phases
       including: an initiation phase that alerts the patient's sensory nerve to the presence of
       the output voltage; a primary nerve stimulation phase that causes the peripheral
       nerves to force the motor muscles surrounding the peripheral target veins to
       contract; an end to the nerve stimulation phase that turns "off the sensory nerve: a
 20    balancing, phase that cancels the stimulation signals that were sent to the nerves to
       allow the nerves to reset; a muscle stimulation phase that activates the venous
       muscle pump; a shutdown phase that ends the activation of the muscles; an electrical
       back pressure phase: an electrical feedback phase: and a rest phase with no active
       voltage output to allow the patient's system time to reset before the next cycle
 25    begins, This cycling part of the waveform used in some embodiments is not
       required in all embodiments. Other embodiments utilize other waveforms that cause
       one or more of the actions described herein. Additionally, suitable waveforms nay
       van relative to the patient's physiology, the design and limitations of the electronic
       circuitry., and/or the method used to deliver the signals to the patient,
 30    100811        The result of the repetitive electrical cycles in the output signal that are
       imparted to the patient is a physiological response in the patient as follows. One
       portion of the generated electrical signal stimulates the muscles near the electrodes
                                                    24

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       to contract and relax. These muscles are circular in nature and when they contract
       they form a tube. This tube is larger than normal and creates a vacuun which can
       have the effect of drawing in whatever blood is available via the capillaries and the
       nearby arteries, In addition, part of the waveform stimulates the adjacent muscles
  5    which act as a venous niuscle pump to increase the local blood pressure in the veins,
       thus adding more blood to the now visually obvious and distended veins. This
       venous muscle pump is the body's way of moving blood from the arteries and
       capillaries back to the heart. The multitude of valves present in the veins prevent
       retrograde blood flow, thus aiding the enlarging of the target veins internal volume
 10    for easier access for venipuncture. For some patient groups, such as geriatric
       patients, this venous muscle pump action may be further aided in conjunction with
       the presently disclosed electrical venous stimulation apparatus, by the use of a
       tourniquet applied between the target vein and the heart.
       100821        The electrical venous stimulation apparatus of some embodiments works
 15    best to present the veins in the back of the hands, top of the feet, and the forearms,
       100831        In one embodiment, the electrical venous stimulation apparatus further
       operates as a TENS device in that there is a portion of the output voltage waveform
       that is configured to numb the tissue adjacent the electrodes (and accordingly the
       target vein site). This inchided functionality makes the process of inserting a needle
 20    into a target vein while using the electrical venous stimulation apparatus less painful
       to the patient when the needle stick actually occurs. In embodiments having two
       potentiometers, the second potentiometer controls the output voltage channel that
       creates the TENS device functionality. The second output channel can be configured.
       to attach directly on the skin of the patient nearby the projected needle stick site to
 25    focus the numbing effect to a specifically local area. The second channel can be
       configured to perform this nerve deadening function specifically. Thus in one
       embodiment, one output voltage channel is used to achieve the displaying of an
       enlarged, engorged vein, and the other output voltage channel is used to numb the
       area of the needle stick.
 30    100841       The apparatus of the present disclosure is configured to non-invasively
       alter the physiology of the peripheral veins that are targeted for venipuncture in the
       limbs of a patient using an active electrical signal, rather than using passive means
                                                   25

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       trditionally used, or requiring the use of a tourniquet. in an aspect of the present
       disclosure, an active signal imparted to the skin of a patient by the apparatus elicits a
       physiological response and a change in condition/behavior of the target vein,
       causing the vein to fill with blood and become distended/enlarged and become more
  5    rigid and therefore easier to visualize under the skin, as shown in FIG. 5 during and
       after the electrical stimulation (compare with FIG. 4. which illustrates the hands
       before the electrical stimulation). In this manner, using such an apparatus and
       methodology as disclosed herein, it becomes easier for medical practitioners to
       locate the target vein and achieve successful and proper venipuncture- No other
 10    active device currently exists that non-invasively changes the physiology of the
       tissue in and around the target veins to aid in locating the target vein and increasing
       the ease of achieving successful and proper veripuncture without the need for
       inultiple attempts.
       [00851       As discussed herein, one embodiment is a method of accessing a vein of
 15    a person, the method comprising: receiving a portion of a limb of the person into a
       container; supplying a liquid electrolytic solution into the container, wherein the
       liquid electrolytic solution is in contact with the portion of the limb; electrically
       stimulating the portion of the limb with at least one signal generated by an electrical
       signal generator, the electrical signal provided to the electrolytic solution by at least
 20    one electrode in contact with the liquid electrolytic solution; causing at least one
       vein in the limb of the person to distend in response to the electrical stimulation; and
       inserting a tip of a needle into the vein while it is distended to access the vein.
       [00861       The various embodiments described above are provided by way of
       illustration only and should not be construed to limit the claims attached liereto.
 25    Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that
       may be made without following the example embodinrents and applications
       illustrated and described herein, and without departing from the true spirit and scope
       of the following claims.
 30
                                                   26

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
       L.      An electrical venous stintulation apparatus; for causing target veins in a
       subject to distend from under the surface of the subject's skin, comprising:
  5            a power supply;
               a signal generator powered by the power supply, thesigal generator
       configured to generate a specified electrical output signal; and
               a phrality of electrodes in electrical conuunication with the Signal
       generator and configured to be placed in electrical communication with the subject,
 10            wherein the electrical output signal includes an output voltage., electrical
       current, and waveform that changes with time in a preprogrammed repeating cycle,
       the output voltage, electrical current, and waveform being configured to elicit a
       physiological response that stimulates a plurality of peripheral nerves in the subject,
       activates a venous muscle pup mechanism in one or more limbs of the subject, and
 15    non-invasively alter the physiology of a target vein, wherein the target vein is caused
       to distend under the surface of the subject's skin.
       2.      The electrical venous stirnulation1 apparatus of claim I, further comprising a
       container, wherein the electrode is physically connected to the container.
 20
       3.      The electrical venous stimulation apparatus of claim 2, wherein the container
       includes one or more recessed regions sized and arranged to receive fingers of the
       subject therein, and are configured to hold a liquid electrolyte solution.
 25    4,      The electrical venous stimulation apparatus of claim 3, further comprising
       the liquid electrolyte solution electrically connected to the electrodes to deliver the
       electrical output signal to the subject through the liquid electrolyte solution
       5.      The electrical venous stinmlation apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a
 30    variable control configured to adjust a magnitude of the output voltage.
                                             27

WO 2015/041966                                                              PCT/US2014/055551
       6,      In some embodiments the mgnitude of the output voltage is variable from 0
       to 40 volts.
       7,      The electrical venous stimulation apparatus of claim 1,wherein the subject is
  5    a human.
       8.      The electrical venous stimulation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal
       generator further comprises:
               a power switch;
 10            an oscillator including an integrated. circuit;
               a variable control configured to adjust a magnitude of an output voltage in
       response to an input; and
               output circuitry comprising:
                       a first stage including at least two operational amplifiers and a
 15            capacitor; and
                       a second stage including a center tap tranmsformer.
       9.      A method of stimulating peripheral target veins to cause the veins to distend
       from under the surface of a subjects skin to facilitate venipuncture, comprising:
 20            generating an adjustable electrical output signal with an electrical venous
       stimulation apparatus, the signal including an adjustable output voltage, an
       adjustable current, and an adjustable output voltage waveforn configured to elicit a
       physiological venous response in the subject that causes the target vein in the sutbject
       to distend under the surface of the subjects skin, the electrical stimulation apparatus
 25    including, a powered signal generator configured to generate the adjustable electrical
       signal, and
               a plurality of electrodes in electrical communication with the signal
       generator and configured to be placed in electrical communication with the subject;
       and
 30            tnsmitting the output signal to the subject via the plurality of electrodes
                                              28

WO 2015/041966                                                               PCT/US2014/055551
       10.     The method of claim 9, further comprising:
               monitoring , byan electrical feedback system in the signal generator, the
       biological electrical feedback frorn the subject in the form of the subject's biological
       electrical resistance and capacitantce
  5            comparing, using a microprocessor integrated in the signal generator, the
       electrical feedback from the subject with the transmited output signal; and
               automatically adjusting subsequent output signals to be sent to the subject
       based on the comparison between the transmitted output signal and the electrical
       feedback
 10
       11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the subject is a human,
       12.     A method of suppressing pain signals at a venous needle stick site of a
       subject, comprising:
 15            generating an adjustable electrical output signal with an electrical venous
       stimulation apparatus, the signal including an adjustable output voltage, an
       adjustable current, and an adjustable output voltage waveform configured. to elicit a
       physiological venous response it the subject that causes the target vein in the subject
       to distend under the surface of the subject's skin, the electrical stimulation apparatus
 20    including, a powered signal generator configured to generate the adjustable electrical
       signal, and
               a plurality of electrodes in electrical communication with the signal
       generator and configured to be placed in electrical commtunication with the subject;
       and
 25            transmitting the output signal to the subject via the plurality of electrodes to
       stimulate the peripheral nerves and activating the venous pump mechanism in at
       least one lib    of the subject
       13.      A method of accessing a vein of a person, the method comprising:
 30            receiving a portion of a limb of the person into a container;
               supplying a liquid electrolytic solution into the container, wherein the liquid
       electrolytic solution is in contact with the portion of the limb;
                                              29

WO 2015/041966                                                                PCT/US2014/055551
                electrically stimiulatMg the portion of the limb with at least one signal
       generated by an electrical signal generator, the electrical signal provided to the
       electrolytic solution by at least one electrode in contact with the liquid electrolytic
       solution;
  5             causing at least one vein in the limb of the person to distend in response to
       the electrical stimulation; and
                inserting a tip ofa needle into the vein while it is distended to access the
       vein,
 10    14.      The method of claim 13, wherein the visibility of the vein is greater after the
       electrical stimulation than before the electrical stimulation,
        15.     The method of claim 14, wherein a height of a skin surface adjacent the vein
       is greater after the electrical stimulation than before the electrical stimulation due to
 15    the distension of the vein.
                                               30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
