                                          ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for preventing or treating atherosclerosis in
a mammalian subject. The methods comprise administering to the subject an effective
amount of an aromatic-cationic peptide and in some applications, a second active agent
chemically linked to the peptide, to subjects in need thereof.

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
           METHODS FOR TREATMENT OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Application No.
61/678,992 filed on August 2, 2012, U.S. Application No. 61/695,807 filed on August 31,
2012, and U.S. Application No. 61/695,850 filed on August 31, 2012. The content of each
application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    The present technology relates generally to compositions and methods of preventing
or treating atherosclerosis. In particular, embodiments of the present technology relate to
administering aromatic-cationic peptides in effective amounts to prevent or treat
atherosclerosis in mammalian subjects.
                                           SUMMARY
[0003]    The present technology relates to the treatment or prevention of atherosclerosis in
mammals through the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of aromatic
cationic peptides and, in some embodiments, a second active agent. In some embodiments,
the second active agent includes an antihyperlipidemic drug. In some embodiments, the
second active agent includes a statin. In some embodiments, the second active agent and the
aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked.
[0004]    In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising (i) a peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt, and (ii) a second active agent, e.g., an
antihyperlipidemic agent. In some embodiments, the second active agent comprises a statin.
In some embodiments, the peptide and the second active agent are chemically linked.
[0005]    In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for treating atherosclerosis
in a mammalian subject, the method comprising administering an effective amount of peptide
D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, such as acetate or
trifluoroacetate salt.
                                                 1

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
[0006]     In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for treating atherosclerosis
in a mammalian subject, the method comprising administering an effective amount of (i) a
peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (ii)
an antihyperlipidemic drug. In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic
drug are chemically linked. In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug includes one
or more of: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin,
rosuvastatin, clinofibrate, clofibrate, simfibrate, fenofibrate, bezafibrate, colestimide,
colestyramine, ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV (lovastatin
extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin),
JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL* (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin
extended-release), LIPITOR* (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR*
(lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin),
VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR* (simvastatin). In some embodiments, the
antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin. In some embodiments, the statin includes one or more of:
ADVICOR® (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV® (lovastatin extended
release), CADUET® (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC*
(sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL® (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended
release), LIPITOR® (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin),
PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN*
(ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR® (simvastatin).
[0007]     In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic agent are
administered simultaneously. In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic
agent are administered sequentially in either order.
[0008]     In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for preventing
atherosclerosis in a mammalian subject, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0009]     In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for preventing
atherosclerosis in a mammalian subject, the method comprising administering an effective
amount of (i) a peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH        2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof and (ii) an antihyperlipidemic drug. In some embodiments, the peptide and the
antihyperlipidemic drug are chemically linked. In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic
                                                 2

    WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
drug includes one or more of: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin,
pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, clinofibrate, clofibrate, simfibrate, fenofibrate, bezafibrate,
colestimide, colestyramine, ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV*
(lovastatin extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR*
(rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC* (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL* (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL
(fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR* (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin),
MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended
release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR* (simvastatin). In
some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin. In some embodiments, the statin
includes one or more of: ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV*
(lovastatin extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR*
(rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC* (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL* (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL
(fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR* (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin),
MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended
release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR* (simvastatin).
[0010]    In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic agent are
administered simultaneously. In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic
agent are administered sequentially in either order. In some embodiments, the subject is
predisposed to atherosclerosis.
[0011]    In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for ameliorating the signs,
symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0012]    In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for ameliorating the signs,
symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis, the method comprising administering an
effective amount of (i) a peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof and (ii) an antihyperlipidemic drug. In some embodiments, the
antihyperlipidemic drug and the peptide are chemically linked. In some embodiments, the
antihyperlipidemic drug includes one or more of: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin,
fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, clinofibrate, clofibrate, simfibrate,
fenofibrate, bezafibrate, colestimide, colestyramine, ADVICOR® (niacin extended
release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV (lovastatin extended-release), CADUET® (amlodipine and
                                                 3

    WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL*
(fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR* (atorvastatin),
LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin),
SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and
ZOCOR* (simvastatin). In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin. In
some embodiments, the statin is includes one or more of: ADVICOR* (niacin extended
release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV (lovastatin extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and
atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL*
(fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR* (atorvastatin),
LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOl* (pravastatin), SIMCOR*
(niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR*
(simvastatin).
[0013]    In some embodiments, treatment of atherosclerosis includes decreasing the size or
number of atherosclerotic plaques in the subject, and/or decreasing the cholesterol content of
an atherosclerotic plaque in the subject.
[0014]    In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic agent are
administered simultaneously. In some embodiments, the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic
agent are administered sequentially in either order.
[0015]    In some embodiments, the signs, symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis
include one or more of: elevated levels total cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein
cholesterol (VLDL-C), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), free (unesterified)
cholesterol, cholesterol ester, phospholipids, triglycerides, and atherosclerotic lesions.
[0016]    In one aspect, a method for delaying onset, ameliorating or eliminating statin side
effects in a subject in need thereof is provided. In some embodiments, the method includes
administering an effective amount of a peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH           2 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the peptide is chemically linked to the
statin. In some embodiments, the statin side effect includes one or more of myopathy,
rhabdomyolysis kidney failure, diabetes, memory loss, decreased coenzyme Q10 levels and
mitochondrial dysfunction. In some embodiments, the statin includes one or more of
atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin,
ADVICOR® (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV® (lovastatin extended
                                                4

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
release), CADUET* (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC*
(sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL® (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended
release), LIPITOR* (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin),
PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN*
(ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR* (simvastatin).
[0017]     In some aspects, a method for increasing statin dosage in a subject in need thereof is
provided. In some embodiments, the method includes administering an effective amount of a
statin at a first dosage level, and an aromatic-cationic peptide chemically linked to the statin;
evaluating the subject for side-effects characteristic of the statin, wherein the side effects in
the subject are reduced or absent as compared to a control subject administered the statin and
not the aromatic-cationic peptide; administering a statin at a second dosage level, wherein the
second dosage level is higher than the first statin dosage level. In some embodiments, the
peptide is D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2. In some embodiments, the statin includes
LIPITOR® or CRESTOR®. In some embodiments, the side effect characteristic of the statin
includes one or more of myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, kidney failure, diabetes, memory loss,
decreased coenzyme Q10 levels and mitochondrial dysfunction.
[0018]     In some embodiments, ameliorating the signs, symptoms or complications of
atherosclerosis includes decreasing the size or number of atherosclerotic plaques in the
subject, and/or decreasing the cholesterol content of an atherosclerotic plaque in the subject.
[0019]     As noted above, in some embodiments of the present methods and compositions, the
aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure, such as D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt, and the
antihyperlipidemic drug are chemically linked.
[0020]     In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin. In some
embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptide and the statin are linked using a labile linkage
that is hydrolyzed in vivo to release the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic drug. In some
embodiments, the labile linkage comprises an ester linkage, a carbonate linkage, or a
carbamate linkage.
[0021]     In some embodiments of the methods and compositions disclosed herein, the
antihyperlipidemic drug is an anti-PCSK9 antibody. In some embodiments, the aromatic
cationic peptide and the anti-PCSK9 antibody are linked using a bifunctional protein coupling
                                                 5

    WO 2014/022552                                                        PCT/US2013/053008
agent. In some embodiments, the bifunctional protein coupling agent is N-succinimidyl-3-(2
pyridyldithio) propionate (SPDP), succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1
carboxylate (SMCC), iminothiolane (IT), a bifunctional derivative of an imidoester, an active
ester, an aldehyde, a bis-azido compound, a bis-diazonium derivative, a diisocyanate, or a
bis-active fluorine compound. In some embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptide and the
anti-PCSK9 antibody are linked using a labile linkage. In some embodiments, the labile
linkage comprises an ester linkage, a carbonate linkage, or a carbamate linkage.
[0022]    In some embodiments of the methods and compositions disclosed herein, the
antihyperlipidemic agent is an Apo-B antisense oligonucleotide. In some embodiments, the
aromatic-cationic peptide and the Apo-B antisense oligonucleotide are linked using a labile
linkage. In some embodiments, the labile linkage comprises an ester linkage, a carbonate
linkage, or a carbamate linkage.
[0023]    In some embodiments, the peptides used in the compositions and methods disclosed
herein is defined by formula I:
                                         OH                      R7
                                                            R6          R8
                                     R3           R4        R5           R9
                                         CH 2               0    CH 2
                     R1
                                                  H
                           N                      N                      NH 2
                              (CH 2 )3        0       (CH2)           0
                                H                      NH2
                           HN        NH2
[0024]    wherein R and R2 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C1-C6 alkyl;
                                          where m = 1-3;
        (iii)   -- (CH 2)m
                                 /
                                                6

    WO 2014/022552                                                     PCT/US2013/053008
        (iv)                  ;
               -   --    C=CH2
                         H
        (v)
R3  and R 4 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii) C 1-C6 alkoxy;
        (iv) amino;
        (v) CI-C 4 alkylamino;
        (vi) C1 -C4 dialkylamino;
        (vii) nitro;
        (viii) hydroxyl;
        (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo;
R , R6, R7, R8, and R 9 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii) C 1-C6 alkoxy;
        (iv) amino;
        (v) C 1 -C4 alkylamino;
        (vi) C1 -C4 dialkylamino;
        (vii) nitro;
        (viii) hydroxyl;
        (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo; and
n is an integer from I to 5.
                                     1                      35                     6   7  8
[0025]    In some embodiments, R and R2 are hydrogen; R3 and R4 are methyl; R , R , R , R ,
and R 9 are all hydrogen; and n is 4.
[0026]    In some embodiments, the peptides used in the methods and compositions disclosed
herein are defined by formula II:
                                               7

    WO 2014/022552                                                                 PCT/US2013/053008
                               R5                             R10
                                      R6            R9              R11
                   R4
                   R3                  R7           R8               R 12
                             H2C                    0      H2C                   0
                   R1                  H                             H
                                       N    D)
                                            D)N
                         N                               N                           NH 2
                               /                         H
                   R2
                                   0         (CH 2 )3             0       (CH 2 )n
                                               TH                          NH 2
                                           jC
                                        HN          NH 2
wherein R and R2 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii)   --    (CH2)m
                                   /           where m = 1-3;
        (iv)
               -C       -C        CH2
                             H
        (v)
R', R4, R', R6, R , R', R , R", R" and R 12 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii) C 1-C6 alkoxy;
        (iv) amino;
        (v) C1-C    4  alkylamino;
        (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
        (vii) nitro;
        (viii) hydroxyl;
        (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo; and
n is an integer from I to 5.
                                                       8

    WO 2014/022552                                                         PCT/US2013/053008
[0027]    In some embodiments, R1, R2, R, R, R', R', R7, R , R, R4,R", and R12 are all
hydrogen; and n is 4. In another embodiment, R , R2, R , R4, R', R , R7, R', R, and R" are
all hydrogen; R8 and R 12 are methyl; R 10 is hydroxyl; and n is 4.
[0028]    In some embodiments, the peptide comprises a tyrosine or a 2',6'-dimethyltyrosine
(Dmt) residue at the N-terminus. For example, the peptide may have the formula Tyr-D-Arg
Phe-Lys-NH 2 or 2'6'-Dmt-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH 2 . In another embodiment, the peptide
comprises a phenylalanine or a 2'6'-dimethylphenylalanine residue at the N-terminus. For
example, the peptide may have the formula Phe-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH 2 or 2'6'-Dmp-D-Arg
Phe-Lys-NH 2 . In a particular embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide has the formula D
Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 .
[0029]    The aromatic-cationic peptides may be administered in a variety of ways. In some
embodiments, the peptides may be administered orally, topically, intranasally,
intraperitoneally, intravenously, subcutaneously, or transdermally (e.g., by iontophoresis).
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0030]    FIG. 1A is a graph showing the % lesion area in control mice (vehicle only - white
bar) and test mice (aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 - dark bars)
after 12 weeks of vehicle or peptide administration. FIG. lB is a photograph showing
atherosclerotic lesions on aorta from a subject receiving vehicle only (left panel) or aromatic
cationic peptide (right panel).
[0031]    FIG. 2 is a graph showing the thoracic aorta cholesterol (jag/mg protein) in control
mice (vehicle only - white bars) and test mice (aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt
Lys-Phe-NH 2 - dark bars) after 12 weeks of vehicle or peptide administration. TC     = total
cholesterol; FC  =  free cholesterol; CE = cholesterol ester.
[0032]    FIG. 3 is a graph showing mean leasion area (mm 2 ) in control mice (vehicle only)
and test mice (aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2) after 12 weeks.
[0033]    FIG. 4A-H show levels of (A) total cholesterol; (B) free cholesterol; (C) cholesterol
ester; (D) HDL-C; (E) VLDL-C; (F) LDL-C; (G) triglycerides; and (H) phospholipids after 0,
4, 8 and 12 weeks of treatment with vehicle or peptide administration. Light bars in each
panel represent data from control mice (vehicle only); dark bars represent data from the test
mice (aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2).
                                                9

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
[0034]    FIG. 5 is a graph showing the effect of the aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'
Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 on coenzyme Q10 levels in fibroblast cells. The first bar represents saline
treated fibroblasts; the second bar represents fibroblasts treated with 10 nM peptide for 16-24
hours; the third bar represents fibroblasts treated with 10 nM peptide for 5 days.
[0035]    FIG. 6A is a diagram of the chemical structure of atorvastatin. FIG. 6B is a
diagram of the chemical structure of rosuvastatin.
[0036]    FIG. 7A is a schematic diagram illustrating linkage of the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt
-Lys-Phe-NH 2 to statins using a labile bond such that in vivo hydrolysis of the pro-drug
releases the two pharmaceutically active agents. FIG. 7B is a schematic diagram illustrating
linkage of the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt -Lys-Phe-NH 2 to a hypolipidemic drug using a labile
bond such that in vivo hydrolysis of the pro-drug releases the two pharmaceutically active
agents.
[0037]    FIG. 8A and 8B show illustrative embodiments where when X=O, a carbonate
linked pro-drug is formed.
[0038]    FIG. 9 is a diagram showing D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 and statin potential
reactive linking sites for pro-drug formation (arrows).
[0039]    FIG. 10 shows illustrative pro-drugs in which the D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
peptide is linked to CRESTOR* or LIPITOR* using a carbonate linkage.
[0040]    FIG. 11 shows illustrative pro-drugs in which the D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
peptide is linked to CRESTOR* using a carbamate linkage.
[0041]    FIG. 12 shows exemplary self immolating moieties.
[0042]    FIG. 13A and 13B show exemplary schematics for formulations linking an
aromatic-cationic peptide to a statin (A); and linking an aromatic-cationic peptide to an
antibody (B). FIG. 13C and 13D show exemplary schematics for formulations linking an
aromatic-cationic peptide to a antihyperlipidemic drug (C); and linking an aromatic-cationic
peptide to an antibody (D).
                                                10

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0043]    It is to be appreciated that certain aspects, modes, embodiments, variations and
features of the invention are described below in various levels of detail in order to provide a
substantial understanding of the present invention.
[0044]    In practicing the present invention, many conventional techniques in molecular
biology, protein biochemistry, cell biology, immunology, microbiology and recombinant
DNA are used. These techniques are well-known and are explained in, e.g., Current
Protocolsin Molecular Biology, Vols. I-III, Ausubel, Ed. (1997); Sambrook et al., Molecular
Cloning: A LaboratoryManual, Second Ed. (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold
Spring Harbor, NY, 1989); DNA Cloning: A PracticalApproach, Vols. I and II, Glover, Ed.
(1985); Oligonucleotide Synthesis, Gait, Ed. (1984); Nucleic Acid Hybridization, Hames &
Higgins, Eds. (1985); Transcriptionand Translation, Hames & Higgins, Eds. (1984); Animal
Cell Culture, Freshney, Ed. (1986); Immobilized Cells and Enzymes (IRL Press, 1986);
Perbal, A PracticalGuide to Molecular Cloning; the series, Meth. Enzymol., (Academic
Press, Inc., 1984); Gene Transfer Vectorsfor Mammalian Cells, Miller & Calos, Eds. (Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory, NY, 1987); and Meth. Enzymol., Vols. 154 and 155, Wu &
Grossman, and Wu, Eds., respectively.
[0045]    The definitions of certain terms as used in this specification are provided below.
Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein generally have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs.
[0046]    As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an"l
and "the" include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. For example,
reference to "a cell" includes a combination of two or more cells, and the like.
[0047]    As used herein, the "administration" of an agent, drug, or peptide to a subject
includes any route of introducing or delivering to a subject a compound to perform its
intended function. Administration can be carried out by any suitable route, including orally,
intranasally, parenterally (intravenously, intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, or
subcutaneously), or topically. Administration includes self-administration and the
administration by another.
                                                 11

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
[0048]     As used herein, the term "amino acid" includes naturally-occurring amino acids and
synthetic amino acids, as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function
in a manner similar to the naturally-occurring amino acids. Naturally-occurring amino acids
are those encoded by the genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are later modified,
e.g., hydroxyproline, y-carboxyglutamate, and O-phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refers
to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally-occurring amino
acid, i.e., an a-carbon that is bound to a hydrogen, a carboxyl group, an amino group, and an
R group, e.g., homoserine, norleucine, methionine sulfoxide, methionine methyl sulfonium.
Such analogs have modified R groups (e.g., norleucine) or modified peptide backbones, but
retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally-occurring amino acid. Amino acid
mimetics refers to chemical compounds that have a structure that is different from the general
chemical structure of an amino acid, but that functions in a manner similar to a naturally
occurring amino acid. Amino acids can be referred to herein by either their commonly
known three letter symbols or by the one-letter symbols recommended by the IUPAC-IUB
Biochemical Nomenclature Commission.
[0049]     As used herein, the term "effective amount" refers to a quantity sufficient to achieve
a desired therapeutic and/or prophylactic effect, e.g., an amount which results in the
prevention of, or a decrease in, atherosclerosis or one or more symptoms associated with
atherosclerosis. In the context of therapeutic or prophylactic applications, the amount of a
composition administered to the subject will depend on the type and severity of the disease
and on the characteristics of the individual, such as general health, age, sex, body weight and
tolerance to drugs. It will also depend on the degree, severity and type of disease. The
skilled artisan will be able to determine appropriate dosages depending on these and other
factors. The compositions can also be administered in combination with one or more
additional therapeutic compounds. In the methods described herein, the aromatic-cationic
peptides may be administered to a subject having one or more signs or symptoms of
atherosclerosis. For example, a "therapeutically effective amount" of the aromatic-cationic
peptides is meant levels in which the physiological effects of atherosclerosis are, at a
minimum, ameliorated. In some embodiments, signs, symptoms or complications of
atherosclerosis include, but are not limited to: increased plasma total cholesterol, increased
plasma free cholesterol, increased plasma cholesterol ester, lesions (e.g. aortic lesions),
increased plasma very low-density lipoprotein, increased plasma low density lipoprotein
and/or increased plasma phospholipids.
                                                12

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0050]     An "isolated" or "purified" polypeptide or peptide is substantially free of cellular
material or other contaminating polypeptides from the cell or tissue source from which the
agent is derived, or substantially free from chemical precursors or other chemicals when
chemically synthesized. For example, an isolated aromatic-cationic peptide would be free of
materials that would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses of the agent. Such
interfering materials may include enzymes, hormones and other proteinaceous and
nonproteinaceous solutes.
[0051]     As used herein, the terms "polypeptide," "peptide," and "protein" are used
interchangeably herein to mean a polymer comprising two or more amino acids joined to
each other by peptide bonds or modified peptide bonds, i.e., peptide isosteres. Polypeptide
refers to both short chains, commonly referred to as peptides, glycopeptides or oligomers, and
to longer chains, generally referred to as proteins. Polypeptides may contain amino acids
other than the 20 gene-encoded amino acids. Polypeptides include amino acid sequences
modified either by natural processes, such as post-translational processing, or by chemical
modification techniques that are well known in the art.
[0052]     As used herein, the term "simultaneous" therapeutic use refers to the administration
of at least two active ingredients by the same route and at the same time or at substantially the
same time.
[0053]     As used herein, the term "separate" therapeutic use refers to an administration of at
least two active ingredients at the same time or at substantially the same time by different
routes.
[0054]     As used herein, the term "sequential" therapeutic use refers to administration of at
least two active ingredients at different times, the administration route being identical or
different. More particularly, sequential use refers to the whole administration of one of the
active ingredients before administration of the other or others commences. It is thus possible
to administer one of the active ingredients over several minutes, hours, or days before
administering the other active ingredient or ingredients. There is no simultaneous treatment in
this case.
[0055]     As used herein, the terms "treating" or "treatment" or "alleviation" refers to both
therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to
prevent or slow down (lessen) the targeted pathologic condition or disorder. For example, a
                                                13

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
subject is successfully "treated" for atherosclerosis if, after receiving a therapeutic amount of
the aromatic-cationic peptides according to the methods described herein, the subject shows
observable and/or measurable reduction in or absence of one or more signs, symptoms or
complications of atherosclerosis, such as, e.g., reduced total plasma cholesterol, free
cholesterol, cholesterol ester, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C), low
density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), phospholipids, lesion size and/or number (e.g. aortic
lesions), lowered levels of cholesterol in the aortic tissue and/or aortic plaques, and/or
lowered levels of cholesterol atherosclerotic lesions or plaques as compared to a subject not
treated with the therapeutic aromatic-cationic peptide. It is also to be appreciated that the
various modes of treatment or prevention of medical conditions as described are intended to
mean "substantial," which includes total but also less than total treatment or prevention, and
wherein some biologically or medically relevant result is achieved.
[0056]    As used herein, "prevention" or "preventing" of a disorder or condition refers to one
or more compounds that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or
condition in the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or
reduces the severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the
untreated control sample. As used herein, preventing atherosclerosis includes reducing to, or
maintaining at, normal levels one or more signs, symptoms or complications of
atherosclerosis including, but not limited to total plasma cholesterol, free cholesterol,
cholesterol ester, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low density lipoprotein
cholesterol, phospholipids, lesion size and/or number (e.g. aortic lesions), levels of
cholesterol in the aortic tissue and/or aortic plaques, and/or levels of cholesterol
atherosclerotic lesions or plaques as compared to a subject not treated with the therapeutic
aromatic-cationic peptide.
[0057]    As used herein, the terms "drug" and "agent" are synonymous.
[0058]    As used herein the terms "antihyperlipidemic agent" or "antihyperlipidemic drug"
are synonymous with the terms "hypolipidemic agent" or "hypolipidemic drug."
Methods of Prevention or Treatment
[0059]    The present technology relates to the treatment or prevention of atherosclerosis by
administration of aromatic-cationic peptides and, in some embodiments, aromatic-cationic
peptides in conjunction with one or more active agents to a subject in need thereof. For
                                                 14

   WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
example, the present technology relates to the treatment or prevention of atherosclerosis by
administration of aromatic-cationic peptides, and in some embodiments, an aromatic-cationic
peptide and one or more antihyperlipidemic drugs (e.g., statins) to a subject in need thereof.
In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug and the aromatic-cationic peptide are
chemically linked.
[0060]    In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides and/or one or more agents are
administered in dosages that are sub-therapeutic for each agent when administered separately.
However, in some embodiments, the combination of the two agents results in synergism,
which provides an enhanced effect that is not observed when each of the agents are
administered individually at higher doses. In one embodiment, the administration of the
aromatic-cationic peptide and one or more agents "primes" the tissue, so that it is more
responsive to the therapeutic effects of the other agent. Thus, in some embodiments, a lower
dose of the aromatic-cationic peptide and/or the one or more agents (e.g., antihyperlipidemic
drugs, such as statins) can be administered, and yet, a therapeutic effect is still observed.
[0061]    In some embodiments, the subject (e.g, a subject suffering from atherosclerosis,
and/or exhibiting the signs, symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis, and/or who is
predisposed to atherosclerosis or the signs, symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis) is
administered the peptide, or is administered a peptide and one or more antihyperlipidemic
drugs (e.g., statins) simultaneously, separately, or sequentially. In some embodiments, the
subject is administered the peptide or is administered the peptide and one or more
antihyperlipidemic drugs (e.g., statins), before atherosclerosis or before the signs, symptoms
or complications of atherosclerosis are evident.
[0062]    Aromatic-cationic peptides are water-soluble and highly polar. Despite these
properties, the peptides can readily penetrate cell membranes. The aromatic-cationic peptides
typically include a minimum of three amino acids or a minimum of four amino acids,
covalently joined by peptide bonds. The maximum number of amino acids present in the
aromatic-cationic peptides is about twenty amino acids covalently joined by peptide bonds.
Suitably, the maximum number of amino acids is about twelve, more preferably about nine,
and most preferably about six.
[0063]    The amino acids of the aromatic-cationic peptides can be any amino acid. As used
herein, the term "amino acid" is used to refer to any organic molecule that contains at least
                                                15

   WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
one amino group and at least one carboxyl group. Typically, at least one amino group is at
the a position relative to a carboxyl group. The amino acids may be naturally occurring.
Naturally occurring amino acids include, for example, the twenty most common levorotatory
(L) amino acids normally found in mammalian proteins, i.e., alanine (Ala), arginine (Arg),
asparagine (Asn), aspartic acid (Asp), cysteine (Cys), glutamine (Gln), glutamic acid (Glu),
glycine (Gly), histidine (His), isoleucine (Ile), leucine (Leu), lysine (Lys), methionine (Met),
phenylalanine (Phe), proline (Pro), serine (Ser), threonine (Thr), tryptophan, (Trp), tyrosine
(Tyr), and valine (Val). Other naturally occurring amino acids include, for example, amino
acids that are synthesized in metabolic processes not associated with protein synthesis. For
example, the amino acids ornithine and citrulline are synthesized in mammalian metabolism
during the production of urea. Another example of a naturally occurring amino acid includes
hydroxyproline (Hyp).
[0064]    The peptides optionally contain one or more non-naturally occurring amino acids.
For example, the peptide may have no amino acids that are naturally occurring. The non
naturally occurring amino acids may be levorotary (L-), dextrorotatory (D-), or mixtures
thereof. Non-naturally occurring amino acids are those amino acids that typically are not
synthesized in normal metabolic processes in living organisms, and do not naturally occur in
proteins. In addition, the non-naturally occurring amino acids suitably are also not
recognized by common proteases. The non-naturally occurring amino acid can be present at
any position in the peptide. For example, the non-naturally occurring amino acid can be at
the N-terminus, the C-terminus, or at any position between the N-terminus and the C
terminus.
[0065]    The non-natural amino acids may, for example, comprise alkyl, aryl, or alkylaryl
groups not found in natural amino acids. Some examples of non-natural alkyl amino acids
include a-aminobutyric acid, 0-aminobutyric acid, y-aminobutyric acid, 6-aminovaleric acid,
and s-aminocaproic acid. Some examples of non-natural aryl amino acids include ortho-,
meta, and para-aminobenzoic acid. Some examples of non-natural alkylaryl amino acids
include ortho-, meta-, and para-aminophenylacetic acid, and y-phenyl-o-aminobutyric acid.
Non-naturally occurring amino acids include derivatives of naturally occurring amino acids.
The derivatives of naturally occurring amino acids may, for example, include the addition of
one or more chemical groups to the naturally occurring amino acid.
                                                 16

    WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
[0066]     For example, one or more chemical groups can be added to one or more of the 2', 3',
4', 5', or 6' position of the aromatic ring of a phenylalanine or tyrosine residue, or the 4', 5',
6', or 7' position of the benzo ring of a tryptophan residue. The group can be any chemical
group that can be added to an aromatic ring. Some examples of such groups include
branched or unbranched C 1 -C4 alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, butyl,
isobutyl, or t-butyl, C 1-C 4 alkyloxy (i.e., alkoxy), amino, C 1 -C4 alkylamino and C1 -C 4
dialkylamino (e.g., methylamino, dimethylamino), nitro, hydroxyl, halo (i.e., fluoro, chloro,
bromo, or iodo). Some specific examples of non-naturally occurring derivatives of naturally
occurring amino acids include norvaline (Nva) and norleucine (Nle).
[0067]     Another example of a modification of an amino acid in a peptide is the
derivatization of a carboxyl group of an aspartic acid or a glutamic acid residue of the
peptide. One example of derivatization is amidation with ammonia or with a primary or
secondary amine, e.g. methylamine, ethylamine, dimethylamine or diethylamine. Another
example of derivatization includes esterification with, for example, methyl or ethyl alcohol.
Another such modification includes derivatization of an amino group of a lysine, arginine, or
histidine residue. For example, such amino groups can be acylated. Some suitable acyl
groups include, for example, a benzoyl group or an alkanoyl group comprising any of the C1
C 4 alkyl groups mentioned above, such as an acetyl or propionyl group.
[0068]     The non-naturally occurring amino acids are preferably resistant, and more
preferably insensitive, to common proteases. Examples of non-naturally occurring amino
acids that are resistant or insensitive to proteases include the dextrorotatory (D-) form of any
of the above-mentioned naturally occurring L-amino acids, as well as L- and/or D- non
naturally occurring amino acids. The D-amino acids do not normally occur in proteins,
although they are found in certain peptide antibiotics that are synthesized by means other than
the normal ribosomal protein synthetic machinery of the cell. As used herein, the D-amino
acids are considered to be non-naturally occurring amino acids.
[0069]     In order to minimize protease sensitivity, the peptides should have less than five,
preferably less than four, more preferably less than three, and most preferably, less than two
contiguous L-amino acids recognized by common proteases, irrespective of whether the
amino acids are naturally or non-naturally occurring. Optimally, the peptide has only D
amino acids, and no L-amino acids. If the peptide contains protease sensitive sequences of
amino acids, at least one of the amino acids is preferably a non-naturally-occurring D-amino
                                                  17

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
acid, thereby conferring protease resistance. An example of a protease sensitive sequence
includes two or more contiguous basic amino acids that are readily cleaved by common
proteases, such as endopeptidases and trypsin. Examples of basic amino acids include
arginine, lysine and histidine.
[0070]    The aromatic-cationic peptides should have a minimum number of net positive
charges at physiological pH in comparison to the total number of amino acid residues in the
peptide. The minimum number of net positive charges at physiological pH will be referred to
below as (pm). The total number of amino acid residues in the peptide will be referred to
below as (r). The minimum number of net positive charges discussed below are all at
physiological pH. The term "physiological pH" as used herein refers to the normal pH in the
cells of the tissues and organs of the mammalian body. For instance, the physiological pH of
a human is normally approximately 7.4, but normal physiological pH in mammals may be
any pH from about 7.0 to about 7.8.
[0071]    "Net charge" as used herein refers to the balance of the number of positive charges
and the number of negative charges carried by the amino acids present in the peptide. In this
specification, it is understood that net charges are measured at physiological pH. The
naturally occurring amino acids that are positively charged at physiological pH include L
lysine, L-arginine, and L-histidine. The naturally occurring amino acids that are negatively
charged at physiological pH include L-aspartic acid and L-glutamic acid. Typically, a peptide
has a positively charged N-terminal amino group and a negatively charged C-terminal
carboxyl group. The charges cancel each other out at physiological pH.
[0072]    In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a relationship between the
minimum number of net positive charges at physiological pH (pm) and the total number of
amino acid residues (r) wherein 3 pm is the largest number that is less than or equal to r + 1.
In this embodiment, the relationship between the minimum number of net positive charges
(pm) and the total number of amino acid residues (r) is as follows:
                                                18

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
              TABLE 1. Amino acid number and net positive charges ( 3 pm p+1)
       (r)      3   4   5 6    7   8   9   10   11   12   13  14   15  16   17   18   19    20
      (Pm)      1   1   2 2    2   3   3    3   4    4    4   5     5   5    6    6    6     7
[0073]     In another embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a relationship between
the minimum number of net positive charges (pm) and the total number of amino acid
residues (r) wherein 2 pm is the largest number that is less than or equal to r + 1. In this
embodiment, the relationship between the minimum number of net positive charges (pm) and
the total number of amino acid residues (r) is as follows:
              TABLE 2. Amino acid number and net positive charges ( 2 pm p+1)
       (r)      3   4   5 6    7   8   9   10   11   12   13  14   15  16   17   18   19    20
      (Pm) 2        2   3 3    4   4   5    5   6    6    7   7     8   8    9    9   10    10
[0074]     In one embodiment, the minimum number of net positive charges (pm) and the total
number of amino acid residues (r) are equal. In another embodiment, the peptides have three
or four amino acid residues and a minimum of one net positive charge, suitably, a minimum
of two net positive charges and more preferably a minimum of three net positive charges.
[0075]     It is also important that the aromatic-cationic peptides have a minimum number of
aromatic groups in comparison to the total number of net positive charges (pt). The minimum
number of aromatic groups will be referred to below as (a). Naturally occurring amino acids
that have an aromatic group include the amino acids histidine, tryptophan, tyrosine, and
phenylalanine. For example, the hexapeptide Lys-Gln-Tyr-D-Arg-Phe-Trp has a net positive
charge of two (contributed by the lysine and arginine residues) and three aromatic groups
(contributed by tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan residues).
[0076]     The aromatic-cationic peptides should also have a relationship between the
minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of net positive charges at
physiological pH (pt) wherein 3a is the largest number that is less than or equal to pt + 1,
except that when pt is 1, a may also be 1. In this embodiment, the relationship between the
minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of net positive charges (pt) is
as follows:
                                                  19

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
        TABLE 3. Aromatic groups and net positive charges (3a < pt+1 or a= pt=1)
   (pt)   1 2    3   4    5   6   7   8  9   10    11 12  13    14   15   16    17 18   19   20
   (a)    1   1  1   1    2   2   2   3  3   3     4  4    4    5    5     5    6   6    6    7
[0077]    In another embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a relationship between
the minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of net positive charges (pt)
wherein 2a is the largest number that is less than or equal to pt + 1. In this embodiment, the
relationship between the minimum number of aromatic amino acid residues (a) and the total
number of net positive charges (p1) is as follows:
        TABLE 4. Aromatic groups and net positive charges (2a < pt+1 or a= pt=1)
   (pt)   1 2    3   4    5   6   7   8  9   10    11 12  13    14   15   16    17 18   19   20
   (a)    1   1  2   2    3   3   4   4  5   5     6  6    7    7    8     8    9   9   10   10
[0078]    In another embodiment, the number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of
net positive charges (p1 ) are equal. In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide is a
tripeptide having two net positive charges and at least one aromatic amino acid. In a
particular embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide is a tripeptide having two net positive
charges and two aromatic amino acids.
[0079]    Carboxyl groups, especially the terminal carboxyl group of a C-terminal amino acid,
are suitably amidated with, for example, ammonia to form the C-terminal amide.
Alternatively, the terminal carboxyl group of the C-terminal amino acid may be amidated
with any primary or secondary amine. The primary or secondary amine may, for example, be
an alkyl, especially a branched or unbranched C 1-C 4 alkyl, or an aryl amine. Accordingly,
the amino acid at the C-terminus of the peptide may be converted to an amido, N
methylamido, N-ethylamido, N,N-dimethylamido, N,N-diethylamido, N-methyl-N
ethylamido, N-phenylamido or N-phenyl-N-ethylamido group. The free carboxylate groups
of the asparagine, glutamine, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid residues not occurring at the C
terminus of the aromatic-cationic peptides may also be amidated wherever they occur within
the peptide. The amidation at these internal positions may be with ammonia or any of the
primary or secondary amines described above.
[0080]    Aromatic-cationic peptides include, but are not limited to, the following peptide
examples:
                                                20

WO 2014/022552                                                PCT/US2013/053008
 Lys-D-Arg-Tyr-NH 2
 Phe-D-Arg-His
 D-Tyr-Trp-Lys-NH 2
 Tip-D-Lys-Tyr-Arg-NH 2
 Tyr-HiS-D-Gly-Met
 Phe-Arg-D-His-Asp
 Tyr-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-Glu-NH 2
 Met-Tyr-D-Lys-Phe-Arg
 D-His-Glu-Lys-Tyr-D-Phe-Arg
 Lys-D-Gln-Tyr-Arg-D-Phe-Tip-NH  2
 Phe-D-Arg-Lys-Trp-Tyr-D-Arg-His
 Gly-D-Phe-Lys-Tyr-HiS-D-Arg-Tyr-NH  2
 Val-D-Lys-His-Tyr-D-Phe-Ser-Tyr-Arg-NH  2
 Trp-Lys-Phe-D-Asp-Arg-Tyr-D-His-Lys
 Lys-Trp-D-Tyr-Arg-Asn-Phe-Tyr-D-His-NH   2
 Thr-Gly-Tyr-Arg-D-His-Phe-Trp-D-His-Lys
 Asp-D-Trp-Lys-Tyr-D-His-Phe-Arg- D-Gly-Lys-NH   2
 D-His-Lys-Tyr- D-Phe-GlU- D-Asp- D-His- D-Lys-Arg-Trp-NH 2
 Ala-D-Phe-D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-D-Trp-His-D-Tyr-Gly-Phe
 Tyr-D-His-Phe- D-Arg-Asp-Lys- D-Arg-His-Trp-D-His-Phe
 Phe-Phe-D-Tyr-Arg-Glu-Asp-D-Lys-Arg-D-Arg-His-Phe-NH   2
 Phe-Try-Lys-D-Arg-Trp-His-D-Lys-D-Lys-Glu-Arg-D-Tyr-Thr
 Tyr-Asp-D-Lys-Tyr-Phe- D-Lys- D-Arg-Phe-Pro-D-Tyr-His-Lys
 Glu-Arg-D-Lys-Tyr- D-Val-Phe- D-His-Trp-Arg-D-Gly-Tyr-Arg-D-Met-NH  2
 Arg-D-Leu-D-Tyr-Phe-Lys-GlU- D-Lys-Arg-D-Trp-Lys- D-Phe-Tyr-D-Arg-Gly
 D-Glu-Asp-Lys-D-Arg-D-His-Phe-Phe-D-Val-Tyr-Arg-Tyr-D-Tyr-Arg-His-Phe
 NH 2
 Asp-Arg-D-Phe-Cys-Phe-D-Arg-D-Lys-Tyr-Arg-D-Tyr-Trp-D-His-Tyr-D-Phe-Lys
 Phe
 His-Tyr-D-Arg-Trp-Lys-Phe-D-Asp-Ala-Arg-CyS-D-Tyr-His-Phe-D-Lys-Tyr-His
 Ser-NH 2
 Gly-Ala-Lys-Phe-D-Lys-Glu-Arg-Tyr-His-D-Arg-D-Arg-Asp-Tyr-Trp-D-His-Trp
                                      21

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
      His-D-Lys-Asp
      Thr-Tyr-Arg-D-Lys-Trp-Tyr-Glu-Asp-D-Lys-D-Arg-His-Phe-D-Tyr-Gly-Val-Ile-D
      His-Arg-Tyr-Lys-NH 2
[0081]     In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide has the formula Phe-D-Arg-Phe
Lys-NH 2. In another embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide has the formula D-Arg-2'6'
Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 .
[0082]     The peptides mentioned herein and their derivatives can further include functional
analogs. A peptide is considered a functional analog if the analog has the same function as
the stated peptide. The analog may, for example, be a substitution variant of a peptide,
wherein one or more amino acids are substituted by another amino acid. Suitable substitution
variants of the peptides include conservative amino acid substitutions. Amino acids may be
grouped according to their physicochemical characteristics as follows:
         (a)      Non-polar amino acids: Ala(A) Ser(S) Thr(T) Pro(P) Gly(G) Cys (C);
         (b)      Acidic amino acids: Asn(N) Asp(D) Glu(E) Gln(Q);
         (c)      Basic amino acids: His(H) Arg(R) Lys(K);
         (d)      Hydrophobic amino acids: Met(M) Leu(L) Ile(I) Val(V); and
         (e)      Aromatic amino acids: Phe(F) Tyr(Y) Trp(W) His (H).
[0083]     Substitutions of an amino acid in a peptide by another amino acid in the same group
is referred to as a conservative substitution and may preserve the physicochemical
characteristics of the original peptide. In contrast, substitutions of an amino acid in a peptide
by another amino acid in a different group is generally more likely to alter the characteristics
of the original peptide.
[0084]     Examples of peptides include, but are not limited to, the aromatic-cationic peptides
shown in Table 5.
                     TABLE 5. Peptide Analogs with Mu-Opioid Activity
         Amino Acid    Amino Acid   Amino Acid           Amino Acid            C-Terminal
          Position 1    Position 2   Position 3           Position 4          Modification
             Tyr          D-Arg         Phe                  Lys                  NH 2
             Tyr          D-Arg         Phe                  OM                   NH2
             Tyr          D-Arg         Phe                  Dab                  NH2
             Tyr          D-Arg         Phe                  Dap                  NH2
           2'6'Dmt        D-Arg         Phe                  Lys                  NH2
           2'6'Dmt        D-Arg         Phe         Lys-NH(CH 2) 2-NH-dns         NH2
                                                22

WO 2014/022552                                                       PCT/US2013/053008
   Amino Acid  Amino Acid  Amino Acid            Amino Acid            C-Terminal
    Position 1  Position 2  Position 3            Position 4           Modification
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe          Lys-NH(CH 2)2 -NH-atn         NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                 dnsLys                 NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Cit        Phe                   Lys                  NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Cit        Phe                  Ahp                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                  Orn                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                  Dab                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                  Dap                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe        Ahp(2-aminoheptanoic acid)      NH2
   Bio-2'6'Dmt   D-Arg         Phe                   Lys                  NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                   Lys                  NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                  Orn                   NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                  Dab                   NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe                  Dap                   NH2
       Tyr       D-Arg         Tyr                   Lys                  NH2
       Tyr       D-Arg         Tyr                   OM                   NH2
       Tyr       D-Arg         Tyr                  Dab                   NH2
       Tyr       D-Arg         Tyr                  Dap                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Tyr                   Lys                  NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Tyr                   OM                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Tyr                  Dab                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Tyr                  Dap                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg       2'6'Dmt                 Lys                  NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg       2'6'Dmt                 Orn                  NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg       2'6'Dmt                Dab                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg       2'6'Dmt                Dap                   NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg       3'5'Dmt                Arg                   NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg       3'5'Dmt                 Lys                  NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg       3'5'Dmt                 Orn                  NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg       3'5'Dmt                Dab                   NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Phe                  Dap                   NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Phe                  Arg                   NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Phe                   Lys                  NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Phe                  OM                    NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  Dab                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  Dap                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  Arg                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                   Lys                  NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  OM                    NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  Dab                   NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  Dap                   NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe                  Arg                   NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Tyr                   Lys                  NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Tyr                   OM                   NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Tyr                  Dab                   NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Tyr                  Dap                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Tyr                   Lys                  NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Tyr                   OM                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Tyr                  Dab                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Tyr                  Dap                   NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys      2'6'Dmt                 Lys                  NH2
                                       23

WO 2014/022552                                        PCT/US2013/053008
   Amino Acid  Amino Acid  Amino Acid     Amino Acid    C-Terminal
    Position 1  Position 2  Position 3     Position 4   Modification
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys      2'6'Dmt          Orn          NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys      2'6'Dmt          Dab          NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys      2'6'Dmt          Dap          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe          dnsDap         NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe          atnDap         NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys      3'5'Dmt          Lys          NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys      3'5'Dmt          Orn          NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys      3'5'Dmt          Dab          NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys      3'5'Dmt          Dap          NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Phe            Arg          NH2
       Tyr       D-Om          Phe            Arg          NH2
       Tyr       D-Dab         Phe            Arg          NH2
       Tyr       D-Dap         Phe            Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe            Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe            Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Orn         Phe            Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Dab         Phe            Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Dap         Phe            Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg         Phe            Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys        Phe            Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Orn         Phe            Arg          NH2
       Tyr        D-Lys        Tyr            Arg          NH2
       Tyr       D-Om          Tyr            Arg          NH2
       Tyr       D-Dab         Tyr            Arg          NH2
       Tyr       D-Dap         Tyr            Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Arg       2'6'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt      D-Lys      2'6'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Orn       2'6'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     2'6'Dmt     D-Dab       2'6'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Dap       3'5'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Arg       3'5'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt      D-Lys      3'5'Dmt          Arg          NH2
     3'5'Dmt     D-Orn       3'5'Dmt          Arg          NH2
       Mmt       D-Arg         Phe            Lys          NH2
       Mmt       D-Arg         Phe            Orn          NH2
       Mmt       D-Arg         Phe            Dab          NH2
       Mmt       D-Arg         Phe            Dap          NH2
       Tmt       D-Arg         Phe            Lys          NH2
       Tmt       D-Arg         Phe            OM           NH2
       Tmt       D-Arg         Phe            Dab          NH2
       Tmt       D-Arg         Phe            Dap          NH2
       Hmt       D-Arg         Phe            Lys          NH2
       Hmt       D-Arg         Phe            Orn          NH2
       Hmt       D-Arg         Phe            Dab          NH2
       Hmt       D-Arg         Phe            Dap          NH2
       Mmt        D-Lys        Phe            Lys          NH2
       Mmt        D-Lys        Phe            Om           NH2
       Mmt        D-Lys        Phe            Dab          NH2
       Mmt        D-Lys        Phe            Dap          NH2
       Mmt        D-Lys        Phe            Arg          NH2
                                       24

   WO 2014/022552                                                              PCT/US2013/053008
       Amino Acid     Amino Acid      Amino Acid           Amino Acid             C-Terminal
        Position 1     Position 2      Position 3           Position 4            Modification
           Tmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Lys                   NH2
           Tmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Om                    NH2
           Tmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Dab                   NH2
           Tmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Dap                   NH2
           Tmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Hmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Lys                   NH2
           Hmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Om                    NH2
           Hmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Dab                   NH2
           Hmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Dap                   NH2
           Hmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Mmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Mmt           D-Orn            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Mmt           D-Dab            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Mmt           D-Dap            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Mmt           D-Arg            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Tmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Tmt           D-Om             Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Tmt           D-Dab            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Tmt           D-Dap            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Tmt           D-Arg            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Hmt            D-Lys           Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Hmt           D-Orn            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Hmt           D-Dab            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Hmt           D-Dap            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
           Hmt           D-Arg            Phe                  Arg                   NH2
       Dab = diaminobutyric
       Dap = diaminopropionic acid
       Dint = dimethyltyrosine
       Mmt = 2'-methyltyrosine
       Tint = N, 2',6'-trimethyltyrosine
       Hmt = 2'-hydroxy,6'-methyltyrosine
       dnsDap = -dansyl-L-a,j-diaminopropionic acid
       atnDap = -anthraniloyl-L-a,j-diaminopropionic acid
       Bio = biotin
[0085]   Examples of peptides also include, but are not limited to, the aromatic-cationic
peptides shown in Table 6.
                  TABLE 6. Peptide Analogs Lacking Mu-Opioid Activity
                    Amino         Amino           Amino     Amino      C-Terminal
                     Acid          Acid            Acid      Acid
                   Position 1    Position 2     Position 3 Position 4  Modification
                    D-Arg          Dmt             Lys        Phe         NH 2
                    D-Arg          Dmt             Phe        Lys         NH 2
                    D-Arg           Phe            Lys       Dmt          NH 2
                    D-Arg           Phe            Dmt        Lys         NH 2
                    D-Arg           Lys            Dmt        Phe         NH 2
                    D-Arg           Lys            Phe       Dmt          NH 2
                                                    25

    WO 2014/022552                                                        PCT/US2013/053008
                       Phe          Lys        Dmt       D-Arg       NH 2
                       Phe          Lys       D-Arg       Dmt        NH 2
                       Phe         D-Arg       Phe        Lys        NH 2
                       Phe         D-Arg       Dmt        Lys        NH 2
                       Phe         D-Arg       Lys        Dmt        NH 2
                       Phe          Dmt       D-Arg       Lys        NH 2
                       Phe          Dmt        Lys       D-Arg       NH 2
                       Lys          Phe       D-Arg       Dmt        NH 2
                       Lys          Phe        Dmt       D-Arg       NH 2
                       Lys          Dmt       D-Arg       Phe        NH 2
                       Lys          Dmt        Phe       D-Arg       NH 2
                       Lys         D-Arg       Phe        Dmt        NH 2
                       Lys         D-Arg       Dmt        Phe        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Dmt       D-Arg       Phe        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Dmt       D-Arg       Dmt        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Dmt       D-Arg       Tyr        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Dmt       D-Arg       Trp        NH 2
                       Trp         D-Arg       Phe        Lys        NH 2
                       Trp         D-Arg       Tyr        Lys        NH 2
                       Trp         D-Arg       Trp        Lys        NH 2
                       Trp         D-Arg       Dmt        Lys        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Trp        Lys        Phe        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Trp        Phe        Lys        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Trp        Lys        Dmt        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Trp        Dmt        Lys        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Lys        Trp        Phe        NH 2
                      D-Arg         Lys        Trp        Dmt        NH 2
                       Cha         D-Arg       Phe        Lys        NH 2
                       Ala         D-Arg       Phe        Lys        NH 2
         Cha   = cyclohexyl alanine
[0086]     The amino acids of the peptides shown in Table 5 and 6 may be in either the L- or
the D- configuration.
[0087]     In some embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptide is a peptide having:
         at least one net positive charge;
         a minimum of four amino acids;
         a maximum of about twenty amino acids;
         a relationship between the minimum number of net positive charges (pm) and the total
number of amino acid residues (r) wherein 3 pm is the largest number that is less than or equal
to r + 1; and a relationship between the minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total
number of net positive charges (p1) wherein 2a is the largest number that is less than or equal
to pt + 1, except that when a is 1, pt may also be 1.
                                                26

   WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
[0088]   In one embodiment, 2 pm is the largest number that is less than or equal to r+1, and a
may be equal to pt. The aromatic-cationic peptide may be a water-soluble peptide having a
minimum of two or a minimum of three positive charges.
[0089]   In one embodiment, the peptide comprises one or more non-naturally occurring
amino acids, for example, one or more D-amino acids. In some embodiments, the C-terminal
carboxyl group of the amino acid at the C-terminus is amidated. In certain embodiments, the
peptide has a minimum of four amino acids. The peptide may have a maximum of about 6, a
maximum of about 9, or a maximum of about 12 amino acids.
[0090]   In one embodiment, the peptide comprises a tyrosine or a 2'6'-dimethyltyrosine
(Dmt) residue at the N-terminus. For example, the peptide may have the formula Tyr-D-Arg
Phe-Lys-NH 2 or 2'6'-Dmt-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH 2. In another embodiment, the peptide
comprises a phenylalanine or a 2'6'-dimethylphenylalanine residue at the N-terminus. For
example, the peptide may have the formula Phe-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH 2 or 2'6'-Dmp-D-Arg
Phe-Lys-NH 2 . In a particular embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide has the formula D
Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 .
[0091]   In one embodiment, the peptide is defined by formula I:
                                              OH                      R7
                                                                 R6          R8
                                    R3                  R4       R5           R9
                                              CH 2               0    CH 2
                    R1
                                                        H
                        N    D                          N                     NH2
                      2                  N                          N
                                         H,,H
                              (CH 2 )3             0       (CH2)           0
                                H                           NH2
                            j1c\
                         HN          NH2
[0092]   wherein R and R2 are each independently selected from
       (i) hydrogen;
       (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
                                                     27

    WO 2014/022552                                                       PCT/US2013/053008
                - -(CH 2)m     /           where m = 1-3;
        (iv)                   ;
                        -H2
        (v)    -H-
R3 and R 4 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii) C 1-C6 alkoxy;
        (iv) amino;
        (v) C 1 -C4 alkylamino;
        (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
        (vii) nitro;
        (viii) hydroxyl;
        (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo;
R , R6, R7, R8, and R 9 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii) C 1-C6 alkoxy;
        (iv) amino;
        (v) C1-C   4 alkylamino;
        (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
        (vii) nitro;
        (viii) hydroxyl;
        (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo; and
n is an integer from I to 5.
[0093]    In a particular embodiment, R1 and R2 are hydrogen; R3 and R 4 are methyl; R5, R6,
R , R , and R9 are all hydrogen; and n is 4.
[0094]    In one embodiment, the peptide is defined by formula II:
                                                28

    WO 2014/022552                                                                 PCT/US2013/053008
                               R5                             R10
                                      R6            R9              R11
                   R4
                   R3                  R7           R8               R 12
                             H2C                    0       H2C                  0
                   R1                  H                             H
                                       N    D)
                                            D)N
                         N                                N                          NH 2
                               /                          H
                   R2
                                   0         (CH 2 )3             0       (CH 2 )n
                                               TH                          NH 2
                                           jC
                                        HN          NH 2
wherein R and R2 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii)   --    (CH2)m
                                   /           where m = 1-3;
        (iv)
               -C       -C        CH2
                             H
        (v)
R', R4, R', R6, R , R', R , R", R" and R 12 are each independently selected from
        (i) hydrogen;
        (ii) linear or branched C 1-C6 alkyl;
        (iii) C 1-C6 alkoxy;
        (iv) amino;
        (v) C1-C    4  alkylamino;
        (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
        (vii) nitro;
        (viii) hydroxyl;
        (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo; and
n is an integer from I to 5.
                                                       29

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0095]    In a particular embodiment, R1, R2, R, R, R', R, R, R', R, R4, R", and R           are
all hydrogen; and n is 4. In another embodiment, R1 , R 2 ,RR      4
                                                                     ,R, R, R 7, R, R 9, and R"
are all hydrogen; R8 and R12 are methyl; R10 is hydroxyl; and n is 4.
[0096]    The peptides may be synthesized by any of the methods well known in the art.
Suitable methods for chemically synthesizing the protein include, for example, those
described by Stuart and Young in Solid PhasePeptide Synthesis, Second Edition, Pierce
Chemical Company (1984), and in Methods Enzymol., 289, Academic Press, Inc, New York
(1997).
Active Agents for Use in Combination Therapy with Aromatic-Cationic Peptides
[0097]    In some aspects, the methods disclosed herein provide combination therapies for the
treatment of atherosclerosis, and/or statin-related side effects comprising administering an
effective amount of an aromatic-cationic peptide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt, in combination with one or more active agents
(therapeutic agents/active ingredients). Thus, for example, the combination of active
ingredients may be: (1) co-formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a
combined formulation; (2) delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations; or
(3) by any other combination therapy regimen known in the art. When delivered in
alternation therapy, the methods described herein may comprise administering or delivering
the active ingredients sequentially, e.g., in separate solution, emulsion, suspension, tablets,
pills or capsules, or by different injections in separate syringes. In general, during alternation
therapy, an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially, i.e.,
serially, whereas in simultaneous therapy, effective dosages of two or more active ingredients
are administered together. Various sequences of intermittent combination therapy may also
be used.
[0098]    In some embodiments, the combination therapy comprises administering to a subject
in need thereof an aromatic-cationic peptide composition combined with one or more active
agents, e.g., one or more antihyperlipidemic agent (e.g., a statin). In some embodiments, the
antihyperlipidemic drug and the aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked.
                                                 30

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
         Antihyperlipidemic (hypolipidemic) drugs and statins
[0099]     In some embodiments, the one or more additional active agents administered with
one or more aromatic-cationic peptides disclosed herein (such as D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe
NH 2 ,) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt, is
an antihyperlipidemic (hypolipidemic) drug. As used herein, the terms "antihyperlipidemic"
and "hypolipedimic" are synonymous and are used interchangeably. For example, in some
embodiments, the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt is administered simultaneous to the
antihyperlipidemic agent (drug). In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug and the
aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked. In some embodiments, the peptide D-Arg
2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as acetate or
trifluoroacetate salt is administered prior to or subsequent to the antihyperlipidemic agent
(drug).
[0100]     In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic drug comprises one or more statins.
In some embodiments, the statin is a combination drug comprising a statin and a non-statin.
Exemplary, non-limiting statins include one or more of the following: lovastatin, (e.g.,
ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREVTM (lovastatin extended
release), MEVACOR*), atorvastatin, (e.g., CADUET* (amlodipine and atorvastatin),
LIPITOR*), rosuvastatin and/or rosuvastatin calcium, (e.g., CRESTOR*), simvastatin, (e.g.,
JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin),
VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin) and ZOCOR*), fluvastatin and/or fluvastatin sodium,
(e.g., LESCOL®, LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended-release)), pitavastatin (e.g., LIVALO®),
pravastatin and/or pravastatin sodium (e.g., PRAVACHOL*)
[0101]     In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is a lipid lowering drug. In some
embodiments, the active agent is an LDL lowering drug. In some embodiments, the active
agent is a triglyceride lowering drug. In some embodiments, the active agent is an HDL
elevating drug.
[0102]     In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is a cholesteryl ester transfer protein
(CETP) inhibitor. In some embodiments, the CETP inhibitor is TORCETRAPIB*,
ANACETRAPIB*, or DALCETRAPIB*.
                                                 31

    WO 2014/022552                                                       PCT/US2013/053008
[0103]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent targets proprotein convertase
subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). In some embodiments, the agent is a PCSK9 inhibitor. In
some embodiments, the agent inhibits PCSK9 function. In some embodiments, the agent
inhibits PCSK9 expression. In some embodiments, the PCSK9 inhibitor targets PCSK9
mRNA. In some embodiments, the PCSK9 inhibitor is a PCSK9 siRNA. In some
embodiments, the PCSK9 inhibitor is ALN-PCS or REGN727. In some embodiments, the
one ore more therapies targeting PCSK9 is an anti- PCSK9 antibody. In some embodiments,
the anti-PCSK9 antibody is a monoclonal antibody. In some embodiments, the anti-PCSK9
antibody is humanized. In some embodiments, the anti-PCSK9 antibody is a human
antibody. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the framework sequence of the anti
PCSK9 antibody is a human consensus framework sequence. In some embodiments, the
antibody is an antibody fragment selected from a Fab, Fab'-SH, Fv, scFv, or Fab 2 fragment.
[0104]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is a fibrate. In some embodiments,
the fibrate is LIPOFEN* (fenofibrate), LOPID* (gemfibrozil), TRICOR* (fenofibrate),
LOFIBRA* (fenofibrate), ATROMID-S* (clofibrate), TRILIPIX* (fenofibric acid),
FENOGLIDE* (fenofibrate), ANTARA* (fenofibrate), FIBRICOR® (fenofibric acid), or
TRIGLIDE® (fenofibrate). In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is clinofibrate,
simfibrate, benzafibrate.
[0105]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is niacin. In some embodiments, the
niacin is NIASPAN*. In some embodiments, the niacin is NIACOR*.
[0106]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is a bile acid resin. In some
embodiments, the bile acid resin is QUESTRAN*, QUESTRAN LIGHT®, COLESTID*, or
WELCHOL.
[0107]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent prevents the absorption of dietary
lipids. In some embodiments the agent is ezetimibe (e.g., ZETIA*), orlistat (e.g.,
XENICAL*), or a phytosterol.
[0108]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is a squalene synthase inhibitor. In
some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is ApoA-1 MILANO*. In some embodiments,
the hypolipidemic agent is AGI-1067. In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is
MIPOMERSEN.
                                             32

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0109]    In some embodiments, the hypolipidemic agent is one or more of colestimide and
colestyramine.
[0110]    In some embodiments, the additional active agent administered in combination with
an aromatic-cationic peptide of the present disclosure comprises an agent effective for
apolipoprotein therapy. For example, in one aspect, the present disclosure provides
combination therapies comprising administering an effective amount of peptide D-Arg-2'6'
Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate
salt in combination with one or more therapies targeting apolipoprotein (Apo). In some
embodiments, the anti-Apo therapy is an antisense therapy. In some embodiments, the anti
Apo therapy is an antisense therapy targeting apolipoprotein B (Apo-B). In some
embodiments, the anti-Apo-B antisense therapy is an antisense oligonucleotide, for example,
comprising nucleotides linked with phosphorothioate linkages. In some embodiments, the
anti-Apo-B antisense therapy is an antisense therapeutic that targets the messenger RNA for
apolioprotein B MIPOMERSEN*. In some embodiments, the anti-Apo-B antisense therapy
is KYNAMRO*. In some embodiments, the anti-Apo-B antisense therapy has the following
sequence: G*-C*-C*-U*-C*-dA-dG-dT-dC-dT-dG-dmC-dT-dT-dmC-G*-C*-A*-C*-C*,
where d = 2'-deoxy,    * = 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl), with 3'->5' phosphorothioate linkages. In
some embodiments, the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt is administered simultaneous to
the anti-Apo-B agent. In some embodiments, the anti-Apo-B agent and the aromatic-cationic
peptide are chemically linked. In some embodiments, the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe
NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt is
administered prior to or subsequent to the anti-Apo-B agent.
         Statin structure
[0111]    As noted above, in some embodiments, the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt is
administered simultaneous to the statin. In some embodiments, the statin and the aromatic
cationic peptide are chemically linked. In some embodiments, the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt
Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt is
administered prior to or subsequent to the statin. Typically, the structural components of
statins include a dihydroxyheptanoic acid unit and a ring system with different substituents.
The statin pharmacophore is modified hydroxyglutaric acid component, which is structurally
                                                 33

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
similar to the endogenous substrate HMG CoA and the mevaldyl CoA transition state
intermediate. The statin pharmacophore binds to the same active site as the substrate HMG
CoA and inhibits the HMG-CoA reductase enzyme. The HMG-CoA reductase enzyme is
stereoselective and as a result functional statins typically have the 3R,5R stereochemistry.
[0112]    Statins can be separated into two classes: type 1 (e.g. lovastatin, pravastatin,
simvastatin) and type 2 (e.g. fluvastatin, cerivastatin, atorvastatin, rosuvastatin). Type 1
statins include a substituted decalin-ring structure that resemble mevastatin, a compound
isolated from the mold Penicilliumcitrinum. Lovastatin was isolated from the mold
Aspergillus terreus and pravastatin and simvastatin are chemically modified versions of
lovastatin. Type 2 statins are fully synthetic and have larger substituent groups that interact
with the HMG-CoA reductase enzyme. In addition, type 2 statins substitute fluorophenyl
group for the butyryl group found on type 1 statins. The fluorophenyl group provides
additional polar interactions typically resulting in tighter binding with the HMG-CoA
reductase enzyme. Rosuvastatin has a sulfonamide group that is hydrophilic and increases
binding affinity with the HMG-CoA reductase enzyme.
         Atorvastatin structure
[0113]    Atorvastatin is a ring-opened hydroxy-acid of trans-6-[2-(3- or 4-carboxamido
substituted pyrrol-1-yl)alkyl]-4-hydroxypyran-2-one (see e.g., Figure 6A for the chemical
structure). The general structure of atorvastatin and related compounds is provided in
Formula I:
                                                           OH
                                                  N-V
             wherein X is -CH 2 -, - CH 2 CH 2 -, - CH 2CH 2CH 2- or - CH 2CH(CH 3).
[0114]    R1 is 1-naphthyl; 2-naphthyl; cyclohexyl; norbomenyl; 2-, 3-, or 4-pyridinyl;
phenyl, phenyl substituted with fluorine, chlorine, bromine, hydroxyl; trifluoromethyl; alkyl
                                                 34

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
of from one to four carbon atoms, alkoxy of from one to four carbon atoms, or alkanoyloxy
of from two to eight carbon atoms.
[0115]    Either R 2 or R 3 is -CONR 5 R6 where R5 and R6 are independently hydrogen; alkyl of
from one to six carbon atoms; 2-, 3-, or 4-pyridinyl; phenyl; phenyl substituted with fluorine,
chlorine, bromine, cyano, trifluoromethyl, or carboalkoxy of from three to eight carbon
atoms; and the other of R 2 or R 3 is hydrogen; alkyl of from one to six carbon atoms;
cyclopropyl; cyclobutyl; cyclopentyl; cyclohexyl; phenyl; or phenyl substituted with fluorine,
chlorine, bromine, hydroxyl; trifluoromethyl; alkyl of from one to four carbon atoms, alkoxy
of from one to four carbon atoms, or alkanoyloxy of from two to eight carbon atoms.
[0116]    R 4 is alkyl of from one to six carbon atoms; cyclopropyl; cyclobutyl; cyclopentyl;
cyclohexyl; or trifluoromethyl.
        Rosuvastatin structure
[0117]    Rosuvastatin is a compound related to the general structure set forth in formula II:
[0118]    wherein R1 is lower alkyl, aryl or aralkyl, each of which may have one or more
substituents: R 2 and R 3 each is independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, or aryl, and each of said
lower alkyl and aryl may have one or more substituents; R 4 is hydrogen, lower alkyl, or a
cation capable of forming a non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salt; X is sulfur, oxygen,
or sulfonyl, or imino which may have a substituent; the dotted line represents the presence or
absence of a double bond, or the corresponding ring-closed lactone. (See e.g., Figure 6B)
[0119]    The term "lower alkyl" refers to a straight, branched, or cyclic C1 to C6 alkyl,
including methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, cyclopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert
butyl, cyclobutyl, n-pentyl, isopentyl, neopentyl, tert-pentyl, cyclopentyl, n-hexyl, and
isohexyl and the like. Further, the lower alkyl may be substituted by 1 to 3 substituents
                                                35

    WO 2014/022552                                                         PCT/US2013/053008
independently selected from the group consisting of halogen, amino, and cyano. Halogen
means fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine.
[0120]    The term "aryl" refers to C6 to C12 aromatic group including phenyl, tolyl, xylyl,
biphenyl, naphthyl, and the like. The aryl may have 1 to 3 substituents independently selected
from the group consisting of lower alkyl, halogen, amino, and cyano. Preferred aryl is phenyl
substituted by 1 to 3 halogens.
[0121]    The term "aralkyl" refers to C1 to C6 lower alkyl substituted by C6 to C12 aromatic
aryl group defined above. Examples of them are benzyl, phenethyl, phenylpropyl and the
like, each of which may have 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from the group
consisting of lower alkyl halogen, amino, cyano, and the like.
[0122]    The term "a cation capable of forming a non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salt"
refers to alkali metal ion, alkaline earth metal ion, and ammonium ion. Examples of alkali
metal are lithium, sodium, potassium, and cesium, and examples of alkaline earth metal are
beryllium, magnesium, and calcium. Especially, sodium and calcium are preferred.
[0123]    Examples of "acyl" are formyl acetyl, propionyl, butyryl, isobutyryl, valeryl, and
isovaleryl.
[0124]    In the term "imino which may have a substituent," preferred substituents are acyl,
optionally substituted amino, and substituted sulfonyl.
[0125]    The term "substituted amino as substituent" means amino group substituted by
sulfonyl and alkylsulfonyl. Examples of them are sulfonyl amino and methanesulfonyl
amino.
[0126]    The term "substituted sulfonyl as substituent" means sulfonyl group substituted by
alkyl, amino, or alkylamino. Examples of them are methanesulfonyl, sulfamoyl,
methylsulfamoyl, and N-methylsulfamoyl.
         LIPITOR* and CRESTOR*
[0127]    Atorvastatin (also known by the trademarked name LIPITOR*) can be used to
reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in
patients without coronary heart disease, but with multiple risk factors. Such risk factors
                                                36

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
include but are not limited to age, smoking, hypertension, low HDL-C, or a family history of
early coronary heart disease. Atorvastatin can also be used to reduce the risk of myocardial
infarction and stroke in patients with type 2 diabetes without coronary heart disease, but with
multiple risk factors. Such risk factors include but are not limited to retinopathy,
albuminuria, smoking, or hypertension. Atorvastatin can be used to reduce the risk of non
fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for coronary
heart failure, and angina in patients with coronary heart disease. Atorvastatin can be used to
reduce elevated total cholesterol, LDL-C, ApoB, and triglyceride levels and increase HDL-C
in adult patients with primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilal) and
mixed dyslipidemia. Atorvastatin can be used to reduce elevated triglycerides in patients
with hypertriglyceridemia and primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Atorvastatin can also be
used to reduce total cholesterol and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). Atorvastatin can be used to reduced elevated total cholesterol,
LDL-C, and ApoB levels in boys and postmenarchal girls between the ages of 10-17, with
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy.
[0128]    Atorvastatin has also been used to treat spinal cord injury in rodents, promoting
locomotion and tissue sparing, as well as reducing inflammation when administered both pre
and post-injury. In addition, atorvastatin has been utilized in an in vitro model of hepatitis C
virus (HCV) infection (alone and with interferon). In such a system, atorvastatin (as well as
lovastatin, simvastatin, fluvastatin, and pitavastatin) was shown to have an anti-HCV effect.
Accordingly, statins may be suitable for concurrent therapy with interferon.
[0129]    Rosuvastatin (also known by the trade name CRESTOR*) can be used to treat
patients with primary hyperlipidemia and mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet to reduce
levels of total cholesterol, LDL-C, ApoB, nonHDL-C, and triglyceride levels and to increase
levels of HDL-C. Rosuvastatin can also be used to treat patients with: hypertriglyceridemia
as an adjunct to diet, primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type II hyperlipoproteinemia) as an
adjunct to diet, and homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). Rosuvastatin can be
used to slow the progression of atherosclerosis in patients as part of a treatment strategy to
lower total cholesterol and LDL-C as an adjunct to diet. Rosuvastatin can be used to treat
patients 10 to 17 years old with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) to
reduce elevated total cholesterol, LDL-C, and ApoB after failing an adequate trial of diet
therapy. Rosuvastatin can be used for reducing the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and
                                                37

    WO 2014/022552                                                         PCT/US2013/053008
arterial revascularization procedures in patients without evident coronary heart disease, but
with multiple risk factors. Such risk factors include hypertension, low HDL-C, smoking, or a
family history of premature coronary heart disease.
         Therapeutic Uses of Aromatic-Cationic Peptides and Active Agents
         Atherosclerosis
[0130]     The aromatic-cationic peptides described herein are useful to prevent or treat disease
such as atherosclerosis. The combination of peptides and active agents such as those
described above (e.g., antihyperlipedimic agents such as statins) are useful in treating any
atherosclerosis, as well as the signs, symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis.
Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a condition in
which an artery wall thickens as a result of the accumulation of fatty materials such as
cholesterol. Atherosclerosis is a chronic disease that can remain asymptomatic for decades. It
is a syndrome affecting arterial blood vessels, a chronic inflammatory response in the walls
of arteries, caused largely by the accumulation of macrophage white blood cells and
promoted by low-density lipoproteins (plasma proteins that carry cholesterol and
triglycerides) without adequate removal of fats and cholesterol from the macrophages by
functional high density lipoproteins (HDL). It is commonly referred to as a hardening or
furring of the arteries. It is caused by the formation of multiple plaques within the arteries.
[0131]     The pathobiology of atherosclerotic lesions is complicated but generally, stable
atherosclerotic plaques, which tend to be asymptomatic, are rich in extracellular matrix and
smooth muscle cells, while unstable plaques are rich in macrophages and foam cells and the
extracellular matrix separating the lesion from the arterial lumen (also known as the fibrous
cap) is usually weak and prone to rupture. Ruptures of the fibrous cap expose thrombogenic
material, such as collagen to the circulation and eventually induce thrombus formation in the
lumen. Upon formation, intraluminal thrombi can occlude arteries outright (e.g., coronary
occlusion), but more often they detach, move into the circulation and can eventually occlude
smaller downstream branches causing thromboembolism (e.g., stroke is often caused by
thrombus formation in the carotid arteries). Apart from thromboembolism, chronically
expanding atherosclerotic lesions can cause complete closure of the lumen. Chronically
expanding lesions are often asymptomatic until lumen stenosis is so severe that blood supply
to downstream tissue(s) is insufficient resulting in ischemia.
                                                38

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
[0132]    These complications of advanced atherosclerosis are chronic, slowly progressive
and cumulative. In some instances, soft plaques suddenly rupture, causing the formation of a
thrombus that will rapidly slow or stop blood flow, leading to death of the tissues fed by the
artery (infarction). Coronary thrombosis of a coronary artery is also a common complication
which can lead to myocardial infarction. Blockage of an artery to the brain may result in
stroke. In advanced atherosclerotic disease, claudication from insufficient blood supply to
the legs, typically caused by a combination of both stenosis and aneurysmal segments
narrowed with clots, may occur.
[0133]    Atherosclerosis can affect the entire artery tree, but larger, high-pressure vessels
such as the coronary, renal, femoral, cerebral, and carotid arteries are typically at greater risk.
[0134]     Signs, symptoms and complications of atherosclerosis include, but are not limited to
increased plasma total cholesterol, VLDL-C, LDL-C, free cholesterol, cholesterol ester,
triglycerides, phospholipids and the presence of lesions (e.g., plaques) in arteries, as
discussed above. In some embodiments, increased cholesterol (e.g., total cholesterol, free
cholesterol and cholesterol esters) can be seen in one or more of plasma, aortic tissue and
aortic plaques.
[0135]    Predisposion to atherosclerosis is also a concern. Accordingly, the present
disclosure relates to methods of administering aromatic-cationic peptides alone, or in
combination with one or more antihyperlipidemic agents (e.g., statins), to prevent
atherosclerosis, or the signs, symptoms or complications thereof. In some embodiments a
subject predisposed to atherosclerosis may exhibit one or more of the following
characteristics: advanced age, a family history of heart disease, a biological condition, high
blood cholesterol. In some embodiments, the biological condition comprises high levels of
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in the blood, low levels of high-density
lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in the blood, hypertension, insulin resistance, diabetes,
excess body weight, obesity, sleep apnea, lifestyle choice and/or a behavioral habit. In some
embodiments, the behavioral habit comprises smoking and/or alcohol use. In some
embodiments, the lifestyle choice comprises an inactive lifestyle and/or a high stress level.
         Statin-related side effects
[0136]    In some embodiments, aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure (e.g., D
Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 ), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof such as acetate
                                               39

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
salt or trifluoroacetate salt, are administered with one or more hypolipidemic agents (e.g.,
statins). In some embodiments, the statin and the aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically
linked. In some embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure delay
onset, ameliorate, inhibit or eliminate the side-effects and/or toxicity of hypolipeidemic agent
(e.g.,statin). In some embodiments, the peptides ameliorate organ damage caused by
hypolipidemic agents (e.g., statins). In some embodiments, the peptides ameliorate liver
damage, kidney damage, renal toxicity or rhabdomyolysis. In some embodiments, the
peptides ameliorate symptoms associated with the toxic side effects of hypolipidemic agents,
including but not limited to muscle weakness, muscle tenderness, malaise, headache, fever,
dark urine, nausea, and vomiting.
         Hypolipidemic agent dosage
[0137]     In some embodiments, administration of aromatic-cationic peptides of the present
technology in conjunction with one or more hypolipidemic agents (e.g., statins), permits a
higher dose of the hypolipidemic agent to be administered to a subject than would otherwise
be tolerated by the subject. Also disclosed herein are methods for increasing an
antihyperlipidemic agent (such as a statin) dose in a subject in need thereof, or allowing
administration of an antihyperlipidemic agent (such as a statin) to a subject who would
normally be contraindicated for e.g., statin treatment (e.g., in a subject who exhibits negative
side effects related to statin administration at an effective dose). Exemplary negative side
effects are described above and in more detail below, and include but are not limited to
muscle weakness and organ damage.
[0138]     In some embodiments, by ameliorating the toxic or negative side effects of the
hypolipidemic agent, the dose of hypolipidemic agent may be increased to a level sufficient
to achieve a target blood lipid level.
[0139]     In some embodiments, the target blood lipid level is a total cholesterol level. In
some embodiments, the target cholesterol level is less than about 200 mg/dL. In some
embodiments, the target cholesterol level is from about 130 to about 200 mg/dL. In some
embodiments, the target cholesterol level is less than about 200, less than about 190, less than
about 180, less than about 170, less than about 160, less than about 150, less than about 140,
or less than about 130 mg/dL.
                                                 40

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
[0140]     Additionally or alternatively, in some embodiments, the target blood lipid level is a
target LDL level. In some embodiments, the target LDL level is less than about 100 mg/dL.
In some embodiments, the target LDL level is from about 50 to about 100 mg/dL. In some
embodiments, the target LDL level is less than about 100, less than about 90, less than about
80, less than about 70, less than about 60, or less than about 50 mg/dL.
[0141]     Additionally or alternatively, in some embodiments, the target blood lipid level is a
target HDL level. In some embodiments, the target HDL level is greater than about 60
mg/dL. In some embodiments, the target HDL level is from about 30 to about 65 mg/dL. In
some embodiments, the target HDL level is greater than about 30, greater than about 35,
greater than about 40, greater than about 45, greater than about 50, greater than about 55,
greater than about 60, or greater than about 65 mg/dL.
[0142]     Additionally or alternatively, in some embodiments, the target blood lipid level is a
target triglyceride level. In some embodiments, the target triglyceride level is less than about
200 mg/dL. In some embodiments, the target triglyceride level is from about 140 to about
200 mg/dL. In some embodiments, the target triglyceride level is less than about 140, less
than about 150, less than about 160, less than about 170, less than about 180, less than about
190, or less than about 200 mg/dL.
[0143]     By way of example, but not by way of limitation, in some embodiments, a subject
with an unsuitable/unhealthy lipid level is administered a first dosage level of an
anithyperlipidemic agent (e.g., a statin) to achieve a target lipid level, in combination with a
first dosage level of an aromatic-cationic peptide of the present disclosure (e.g., D-Arg-2'6'
Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2) at t=0. In some embodiments, the subject is administered the
anithyperlipidemic agent, or is administered an anithyperlipidemic agent and a peptide at the
first dosage level for 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks,
month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years or
10 years. In some embodiments, the subject is administered the anithyperlipidemic agent, or
is administered an anithyperlipidemic agent and a peptide at the first dosage level once per
day, twice per day, every other day, once every third day, fourth day, fifth day, once per
week, or once every other week. In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic agent and the
aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked.
                                                41

    WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
[0144]     At a later time (t=1) (e.g., 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3
weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year or 2 years) after taking the
anithyperlipidemic agent, or the anithyperlipidemic agent and the peptide at the first dosage
level, the subject's lipid levels and any negative or toxic side effects characteristic of the
anithyperlipidemic agent are evaluated. In some embodiments, due to the positive effects of
the peptpide, the subject exhibits no negative or toxic side effects of the anithyperlipidemic
agent. In some embodiments, the dosage level of the antihyperlipidemic agent is increased to
a second dosage level to more quickly or effectively achieve an acceptable (e.g., target) lipid
level. In some embodiments, the peptide dosage level remains constant, e.g., is equal to the
first dosage level. In some embodiments, the peptide dosage level is increased, e.g., is
greater than the first dosage level. In some embodiments, the peptide dosage level is
decreased, e.g., is less than the first dosage level. In some embodiment, no additional peptide
is administered with the second dosage level of the antihyperlipidemic agent. In some
embodiments, peptide is administered as often as the antihyperlipidemic agent. In some
embodiments, the peptide is administered more or less frequtently than the
antihyperlipidemic agent. In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic agent and the
aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked.
[0145]     In some embodiments, the subject's lipid levels and any negative or toxic side
effects characteristic of the anithyperlipidemic agent are evaluated at t=2, t=3, etc. In some
embodiments, the dosage level of the antihyperlipidemic agent is increased to a third, fourth,
fifth, etc. dosage level to more quickly or effectively achieve a target lipid level. In some
embodiments, at t=2, 3, etc. the peptide dosage level may decreased, increased, remain the
same (e.g., first dosage level) or be omitted from one or more administrations.
         Coenzyme Q10 levels
[0146]     The statins (simvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin and the like) are
hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors. By inhibiting this
enzyme, statins reduce the synthesis of mevalonate, an intermediary in the cholesterol
synthesis pathway. The same biosynthetic pathway is shared by coenzyme QI; mevalonate
is also a precursor of coenzyme Q10. Thus, both cholesterol and coenzyme Q10 biosynthesis
decrease with statin treatment.
                                                  42

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0147]     Some of the side effects of statins include mitochondrial dysfunction, decreased
coenzyme Q10 levels, a variety of myopathies (ranging from mild myalgia to fatal
rhabdomyolysis), diabetes, kidney failure and memory loss. Additional side effects include
fever, dark colored urine, swelling, weight gain, changes in urination frequency, dry mouth,
drowsiness, nausea, diarrhea, jaundice, loss of appetite, insomnia, and headache.
[0148]    Coenzyme QI (CoQ10) is a naturally occurring, fat-soluble quinone that is
localized in hydrophobic portions of cellular membranes. Approximately half of the body's
CoQ 10 is obtained through dietary fat ingestion, whereas the remainder results from
endogenous synthesis. Coenzyme QI participates in electron transport during oxidative
phosphorylation in mitochondria, protects against oxidative stress produced by free radicals,
and regenerates active forms of the antioxidants ascorbic acid and tocopherol (vitamin E).
Given the role of CoQ 10 in mitochondrial energy production and the importance of
mitochondria in muscle function, it is likely that statin-induced CoQ 10 deficiency plays a role
in statin-associated mitochondrial dysfunction and myopathies (e.g., rhabdomyolysis).
Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is also possible that CoQ 10 plays a role in
additional statin-induced side effects, such as but not limited to memory loss, kidney failure
and diabetes.
[0149]    As shown in Example 3 and Figure 5, aromatic-cationic peptides of the present
disclosure increase CoQ10 levels in fibroblast cells. Accordingly, in some embodiments,
aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure are administered with one or more statins
to alleviate or prevent the myopathic side effects of statin administration. The peptide may
be administered before, simultaneously with, or after statin administration. The reason for
statin administration is not intended to limit peptide administration. That is, the subject may
be suffering from, or at risk for, any number of disease, conditions or illnesses for which one
or more statins are indicated.
[0150]    By way of example, but not by way of limitation, exemplary diseases, conditions,
risk factors, characteristics, or reasons for administering a statin include one or more of the
following: advanced age, smoking, hypertension, low HDL-C, a family history of early
coronary heart disease, an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke in subjects with
type 2 diabetes without coronary heart disease, but with other or multiple risk factors (e.g.,
retinopathy, albuminuria, smoking, or hypertension), to reduce the risk of non-fatal MI, fatal
and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for coronary heart failure,
                                                 43

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
or angina in patients with coronary heart disease, to reduce elevated total cholesterol, LDL-C,
ApoB, and triglyceride levels and increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary
hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilal) and mixed dyslipidemia, to reduce
elevated triglycerides in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and primary
dysbetalipoproteinemia, to reduce total cholesterol and LDL-C in patients with homozygous
familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), to reduce elevated total cholesterol, LDL-C, and
ApoB levels in boys and postmenarchal girls between the ages of 10-17, with heterozygous
familial hypercholesterolemia after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy, to treat patients
with primary hyperlipidemia and mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet to reduce levels of
total cholesterol, LDL-C, ApoB, nonHDL-C, and triglyceride levels and to increase levels of
HDL-C, to treat patients with: hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet, primary
dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type II hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet, and
homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), to slow the progression of
atherosclerosis in patients as part of a treatment strategy to lower total cholesterol and LDL-C
as an adjunct to diet, to treat patients 10 to 17 years old with heterozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) to reduce elevated total cholesterol, LDL-C, and ApoB after
failing an adequate trial of diet therapy, to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke,
and arterial revascularization procedures in patients without evident coronary heart disease,
but with multiple risk factors (e.g., hypertension, low HDL-C, smoking, or a family history of
premature coronary heart disease), to reduce inflammation, promote locomotion, and promote
tissue sparing in spinal cord injury, and/or to reduce or eliminate infection of HCV in a
patient.
[0151]    In addition, in some embodiments, the administration of one or more aromatic
cationic peptides of the present disclosure in combination with one or more
antihyperlipidemic agents (e.g., statins) will allow the subject to receive a higher dose of one
or more antihyperlipidemic agents to alleviate a disease, conditions, or a sign, symptom or
characteristic of a disease or condition. By way of example but not by way of limitation, the
label on the statin CRESTOR* emphasizes the risks (e.g., myopathy, rhabdomyolysis and
various forms of kidney failure) at the highest approved does of 40 mg, and recommends
administration of lower doses. By administering an aromatic-cationic peptide with the
antihyperlipidemic agent, the detrimental side effects seen with higher dosages may delayed,
ameliorated or eliminated, thereby allowing for administration of the higher therapeutic
                                                 44

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
antihyperlipidemic (e.g., statin) dose. In some embodiments, the anithyperlipidemic agent
and the aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked.
         General
[0152]    The disclosure also provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods of
treating a subject having or at risk of (or susceptible to) atherosclerosis and related
complications. Accordingly, the present methods provide for the prevention and/or treatment
of atherosclerosis in a subject by administering an effective amount of an aromatic-cationic
peptide and one or more active agents, such as an antihyperlipidemic drug (e.g., a statin) to a
subject in need thereof. In some embodiments, the anithyperlipidemic agent and the
aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically linked.
[0153]    In various embodiments, suitable in vitro or in vivo assays are performed to
determine the effect of a specific combination of aromatic-cationic peptides and one or more
active agents and whether its administration is indicated for treatment. In various
embodiments, assays can be performed with representative animal models to determine if a
given aromatic-cationic peptide and cardiovascular agent treatment regime exerts the desired
effect in preventing or treating atherosclerosis. Compounds for use in therapy can be tested
in suitable animal model systems including, but not limited to rats, mice, chicken, pigs, cows,
monkeys, rabbits, and the like, prior to testing in human subjects. Any of the animal model
systems known in the art can be used prior to administration to human subjects.
[0154]    In therapeutic applications, compositions or medicaments are administered to a
subject suspected of, or already suffering from such a disease in an amount sufficient to cure,
or at least partially arrest, the symptoms of the disease, including its complications and
intermediate pathological phenotypes in development of the disease. As such, the invention
provides methods of treating an individual afflicted with atherosclerosis.
Modes of Administration, Formulations and Effective Dosages
         Formulations
[0155]    Any method known to those in the art for contacting a cell, organ or tissue with a
peptide and active agent may be employed. Suitable methods include in vitro, ex vivo, or in
vivo methods. In vivo methods typically include the administration of an aromatic-cationic
peptide and active agent, such as those described above, to a mammal, suitably a human.
                                                45

   WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
When used in vivo for therapy, the aromatic-cationic peptides and active agents may be
administered to the subject in effective amounts (i.e., amounts that have desired therapeutic
effect). The dose and dosage regimen will depend upon the degree of the injury in the
subject, the characteristics of the particular aromatic-cationic peptide and/or active agent
used, e.g., its therapeutic index, the subject, and the subject's history.
[0156]    The effective amount may be determined during pre-clinical trials and clinical trials
by methods familiar to physicians and clinicians. An effective amount of a peptide and one
or more additional active agents useful in the methods may be administered to a mammal in
need thereof by any of a number of well-known methods for administering pharmaceutical
compounds. The peptide may be administered systemically or locally.
[0157]    The compound may be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term
"pharmaceutically acceptable salt" means a salt prepared from a base or an acid which is
acceptable for administration to a patient, such as a mammal (e.g., salts having acceptable
mammalian safety for a given dosage regime). However, it is understood that the salts are
not required to be pharmaceutically acceptable salts, such as salts of intermediate compounds
that are not intended for administration to a patient. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be
derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic bases and from
pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acids. In addition, when a peptide contains
both a basic moiety, such as an amine, pyridine or imidazole, and an acidic moiety such as a
carboxylic acid or tetrazole, zwitterions may be formed and are included within the term
"salt" as used herein. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic bases include
ammonium, calcium, copper, ferric, ferrous, lithium, magnesium, manganic, manganous,
potassium, sodium, and zinc salts, and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically
acceptable organic bases include salts of primary, secondary and tertiary amines, including
substituted amines, cyclic amines, naturally-occurring amines and the like, such as arginine,
betaine, caffeine, choline, N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine, diethylamine, 2
diethylaminoethanol, 2-dimethylaminoethanol, ethanolamine, ethylenediamine, N
ethylmorpholine, N-ethylpiperidine, glucamine, glucosamine, histidine, hydrabamine,
isopropylamine, lysine, methylglucamine, morpholine, piperazine, piperadine, polyamine
resins, procaine, purines, theobromine, triethylamine, trimethylamine, tripropylamine,
tromethamine and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic acids
include salts of boric, carbonic, hydrohalic (hydrobromic, hydrochloric, hydrofluoric or
                                                 46

    WO 2014/022552                                                              PCT/US2013/053008
hydroiodic), nitric, phosphoric, sulfamic and sulfuric acids. Salts derived from
pharmaceutically acceptable organic acids include salts of aliphatic hydroxyl acids (e.g.,
citric, gluconic, glycolic, lactic, lactobionic, malic, and tartaric acids), aliphatic
monocarboxylic acids (e.g., acetic, butyric, formic, propionic and trifluoroacetic acids),
amino acids (e.g., aspartic and glutamic acids), aromatic carboxylic acids (e.g., benzoic, p
chlorobenzoic, diphenylacetic, gentisic, hippuric, and triphenylacetic acids), aromatic
hydroxyl acids (e.g., o-hydroxybenzoic, p-hydroxybenzoic, 1-hydroxynaphthalene-2
carboxylic and 3-hydroxynaphthalene-2-carboxylic acids), ascorbic, dicarboxylic acids (e.g.,
fumaric, maleic, oxalic and succinic acids), glucoronic, mandelic, mucic, nicotinic, orotic,
pamoic, pantothenic, sulfonic acids (e.g., benzenesulfonic, camphosulfonic, edisylic,
ethanesulfonic, isethionic, methanesulfonic, naphthalenesulfonic, naphthalene- 1,5-disulfonic,
naphthalene-2,6-disulfonic and p-toluenesulfonic acids), xinafoic acid, and the like. In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt is acetate or trifluoroacetate salt.
[0158]     The compounds described herein can be incorporated into pharmaceutical
compositions for administration, singly or in combination, to a subject for the treatment or
prevention of a disorder described herein. Such compositions typically include the active
agent (e.g., peptide and one or more active agents, e.g., a statin) and a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. As used herein the term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes
saline, solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and
absorption delaying agents, and the like, compatible with pharmaceutical administration.
Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
[0159]     Pharmaceutical compositions are typically formulated to be compatible with its
intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral
(e.g., intravenous, intradermal, intraperitoneal or subcutaneous), oral, inhalation, transdermal
(topical), intraocular, iontophoretic, and transmucosal administration. Solutions or
suspensions used for parenteral, intradermal, or subcutaneous application can include the
following components: a sterile diluent such as water for injection, saline solution, fixed oils,
polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents; antibacterial
agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens; antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or
sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as
acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium
chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases, such as hydrochloric acid or
                                                 47

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules, disposable
syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. For convenience of the patient or
treating physician, the dosing formulation can be provided in a kit containing all necessary
equipment (e.g., vials of drug, vials of diluent, syringes and needles) for a treatment course.
[0160]    Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use can include sterile aqueous
solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous
preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration,
suitable carriers include physiological saline, bacteriostatic water, Cremophor ELTM (BASF,
Parsippany, N.J.) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In all cases, a composition for
parenteral administration must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy
syringability exists. It should be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and
must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and
fungi.
[0161]    The pharmaceutical compositions can include a carrier, which can be a solvent or
dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol,
propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof.
The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin,
by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of
surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various
antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic
acid, thiomerasol, and the like. Glutathione and other antioxidants can be included to prevent
oxidation. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars,
polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged
absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the
composition an agent which delays absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate or
gelatin.
[0162]    Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in
the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle, which contains a basic
dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the
case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, typical methods of
                                                48

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
preparation include vacuum drying and freeze drying, which can yield a powder of the active
ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution
thereof.
[0163]    Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. For the
purpose of oral therapeutic administration, the active compounds can be incorporated with
excipients and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules, e.g., gelatin capsules. Oral
compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash.
Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents, and/or adjuvant materials can be included as
part of the composition. The tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of
the following ingredients, or compounds of a similar nature: a binder such as microcrystalline
cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or lactose, a disintegrating
agent such as alginic acid, primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or
sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a sweetening agent such as sucrose or
saccharin; or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, methyl salicylate, or orange flavoring.
[0164]    For administration by inhalation, the compounds can be delivered in the form of an
aerosol spray from a pressurized container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant,
e.g., a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer. Such methods include, but are not limited
to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,468,798.
[0165]     Systemic administration of a therapeutic compound as described herein can also be
by transmucosal or transdermal means. For transmucosal or transdermal administration,
penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such
penetrants are generally known in the art, and include, for example, for transmucosal
administration, detergents, bile salts, and fusidic acid derivatives. Transmucosal
administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays. For transdermal
administration, the active compounds are formulated into ointments, salves, gels, or creams
as generally known in the art. In one embodiment, transdermal administration may be
performed by iontophoresis.
[0166]    A therapeutic agent can be formulated in a carrier system. The carrier can be a
colloidal system. The colloidal system can be a liposome, a phospholipid bilayer vehicle. In
one embodiment, the therapeutic peptide is encapsulated in a liposome while maintaining
peptide integrity. As one skilled in the art would appreciate, there are a variety of methods to
                                                49

   WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
prepare liposomes. (See Lichtenberg et al., Methods Biochem. Anal., 33:337-462 (1988);
Anselem et al., Liposome Technology, CRC Press (1993)). Liposomal formulations can delay
clearance and increase cellular uptake (See Reddy, Ann. Pharmacother.,34(7-8):915-923
(2000)). An active agent can also be loaded into a particle prepared from pharmaceutically
acceptable ingredients including, but not limited to, soluble, insoluble, permeable,
impermeable, biodegradable or gastroretentive polymers or liposomes. Such particles
include, but are not limited to, nanoparticles, biodegradable nanoparticles, microparticles,
biodegradable microparticles, nanospheres, biodegradable nanospheres, microspheres,
biodegradable microspheres, capsules, emulsions, liposomes, micelles and viral vector
systems.
[0167]    The carrier can also be a polymer, e.g., a biodegradable, biocompatible polymer
matrix. In one embodiment, the therapeutic peptide can be embedded in the polymer matrix,
while maintaining protein integrity. The polymer may be natural, such as polypeptides,
proteins or polysaccharides, or synthetic, such as poly a-hydroxy acids. Examples include
carriers made of, e.g., collagen, fibronectin, elastin, cellulose acetate, cellulose nitrate,
polysaccharide, fibrin, gelatin, and combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the polymer is
poly-lactic acid (PLA) or copoly lactic/glycolic acid (PGLA). The polymeric matrices can be
prepared and isolated in a variety of forms and sizes, including microspheres and
nanospheres. Polymer formulations can lead to prolonged duration of therapeutic effect. (See
Reddy, Ann. Pharmacother.,34(7-8):915-923 (2000)). A polymer formulation for human
growth hormone (hGH) has been used in clinical trials. (See Kozarich and Rich, Chemical
Biology, 2:548-552 (1998)).
[0168]    Examples of polymer microsphere sustained release formulations are described in
PCT publication WO 99/15154 (Tracy et al.), U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,674,534 and 5,716,644 (both
to Zale et al.), PCT publication WO 96/40073 (Zale et al.), and PCT publication WO
00/38651 (Shah et al.). U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,674,534 and 5,716,644 and PCT publication WO
96/40073 describe a polymeric matrix containing particles of erythropoietin that are
stabilized against aggregation with a salt.
[0169]    In some embodiments, the therapeutic compounds are prepared with carriers that
will protect the therapeutic compounds against rapid elimination from the body, such as a
controlled release formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems.
Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate,
                                                50

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylacetic acid. Such
formulations can be prepared using known techniques. The materials can also be obtained
commercially, e.g., from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Liposomal
suspensions (including liposomes targeted to specific cells with monoclonal antibodies to
cell-specific antigens) can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can be
prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, as described in,
but not limited to U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811.
[0170]    The therapeutic compounds can also be formulated to enhance intracellular delivery.
For example, liposomal delivery systems are known in the art, see, e.g., Chonn and Cullis,
"Recent Advances in Liposome Drug Delivery Systems," Current Opinion in Biotechnology
6:698-708 (1995); Weiner, "Liposomes for Protein Delivery: Selecting Manufacture and
Development Processes," Immunomethods, 4(3):201-9 (1994); and Gregoriadis, "Engineering
Liposomes for Drug Delivery: Progress and Problems," Trends Biotechnol., 13(12):527-37
(1995). Mizguchi et al., CancerLett., 100:63-69 (1996), describes the use of fusogenic
liposomes to deliver a protein to cells both in vivo and in vitro.
        Formulations Linking Peptides and Additional Active Agents - Combination Therapy
[0171]    In some embodiments, at least one additional actiave agent, e.g., an
antihyperlipidemic agent (e.g., statin), and at least one aromatic cationic peptide as described
above (e.g., D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), are
associated to form a complex. The antihyperlipidemic agent and aromatic-cationic peptide
can associate by any method known to those in the art. The following examples of
peptide/active agent linkages are provided by way of illustration only, and are not inteneded
to be limiting. In general, additional active agents can be linked to an aromatic-cationic
peptide of the present disclosure by any suitable technique, with appropriate consideration of
the need for pharmokinetic stability and reduced overall toxicity to the subject. A therapeutic
agent can be coupled to an aromatic-cationic peptide either directly or indirectly (e.g., via a
linker group).
[0172]    Suitable types of associations include chemical bonds and physical bonds.
Chemical bonds include, for example, covalent bonds and coordinate bonds. Physical bonds
include, for instance, hydrogen bonds, dipolar interactions, van der Waal forces, electrostatic
interactions, hydrophobic interactions and aromatic stacking. In some embodiments, bonds
                                                51

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
between the compounds are rapidly degraded or dissolved; in some embodiments, bonds are
cleaved by drug metabolizing or excretatory chemistry and/or enzymes.
[0173]    For a chemical bond or physical bond, a functional group on the molecule typically
associates with a functional group on the aromatic cationic peptide. For example,
hypolipidemic agents such as statins often contain a carboxyl functional group, as well as
hydroxyl functional groups. The free amine group of an aromatic cationic peptide may be
crosslinked directly to the carboxl group of a statin using 1-Ethyl-3-[3
dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC or EDAC) or
dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC). Cross-linking agents can, for example, be obtained from
Pierce Biotechnology, Inc., Rockford, IL. The Pierce Biotechnology, Inc. website can
provide assistance.
[0174]    In some embodiments, a direct reaction between an additional active agent (e.g., an
antihyperlipidemic agent) and an aromatic-cationic peptide (e.g., D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe
NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), is formed when each possesses a
functional group capable of reacting with the other. For example, a nucleophilic group, such
as an amino or sulfhydryl group, can be capable of reacting with a carbonyl-containing group,
such as an anhydride or an acid halide, or with an allyl group containing a good leaving group
(e.g., a halide). Additionally or alternatively, a suitable chemical linker group can be used. A
linker group can function as a spacer to distance the peptide and the additional active agent in
order to avoid interference with, for example, binding capabilities. A linker group can also
serve to increase the chemical reactivity of a substituent, and thus increase the coupling
efficiency.
[0175]    In exemplary embodiments, suitable linkage chemistries include maleimidyl linkers
and alkyl halide linkers (which react with a sulfhydryl on the antibody moiety) and
succinimidyl linkers (which react with a primary amine on the antibody moiety). Several
primary amine and sulfhydryl groups are present on immunoglobulins, and additional groups
can be designed into recombinant immunoglobulin molecules. It will be evident to those
skilled in the art that a variety of bifunctional or polyfunctional reagents, both homo- and
hetero-functional (such as those described in the catalogue of the Pierce Chemical Co.,
Rockford, Ill.), can be employed as a linker group. Coupling can be affected, e.g., through
amino groups, carboxyl groups, sulfhydryl groups or oxidized carbohydrate residues (see,
e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,671,958).
                                                 52

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0176]    As an additional or alternative coupling method, an additional active agent can be
coupled to the aromatic-cationic peptides disclosed herein, e.g., through an oxidized
carbohydrate group at a glycosylation site, for example, as described in U.S. Pat. Nos.
5,057,313 and 5,156,840. Yet another alternative method of coupling an aromatic cationic
peptide to an additional active agent is by the use of a non-covalent binding pair, such as
streptavidin/biotin, or avidin/biotin. In these embodiments, one member of the pair is
covalently coupled to the aromatic-cationic peptide, and the other member of the binding pair
is covalently coupled to the additional active agent.
[0177]    In some embodiments, an additional active agent may be more potent when free
from the aromatic-cationic peptide, and it may be desirable to use a linker group which is
cleavable during or upon internalization into a cell, or which is gradually cleavable over time
in the extracellular environment. A number of different cleavable linker groups have been
described. Examples of the intracellular release of active agents from these linker groups
include, e.g., but are not limited to, cleavage by reduction of a disulfide bond (e.g., U.S. Pat.
No. 4,489,710), by irradiation of a photolabile bond (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,625,014), by
hydrolysis of derivatized amino acid side chains (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,638,045), by serum
complement-mediated hydrolysis (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,671,958), and acid-catalyzed
hydrolysis (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,569,789).
[0178]    In some embodiments, an aromatic-cationic peptide as disclosed herein is coupled to
more than one active agent. For example, in some embodiments, aromatic-cationic peptide is
coupled to a mixture of at least two additional active agents. That is, more than one type of
active agent can be coupled to one aromatic-cationic peptide. For instance, a therapeutic
moiety, such as a an antihyperlipidemic agents such as a statin, polynucleotide, antibody or
antisense sequence, can be conjugated to an aromatic-cationic peptide to increase the
effectiveness of the therapy, as well as lowering the required dosage necessary to obtain the
desired therapeutic effect. Regardless of the particular embodiment, formulations with more
than one moiety can be prepared in a variety of ways. For example, more than one moiety
can be coupled directly to an aromatic-cationic peptide, or linkers that provide multiple sites
for attachment (e.g., dendrimers) can be used. Alternatively, a carrier with the capacity to
hold more than one active agent can be used.
[0179]    As explained above, an aromatic-cationic peptide can be linked to additional active
agents in a variety of ways, including covalent bonding either directly or via a linker group,
                                                53

    WO 2014/022552                                                               PCT/US2013/053008
and non-covalent associations. For example, in some embodiments, the aromatic-cationic
peptide and additional active agents can be combined with encapsulation carriers. In some
embodiments, this is especially useful to allow the therapeutic compositions to gradually
release the aromatic-cationic peptide and additional active agent over time while
concentrating it in the vicinity of the target cells.
[0180]     In some embodiments, linkers that that are cleaved within a cell may also be used.
For example, heterocyclic "self-immolating" linker moieties can be used to link aromatic
cationic peptides of the present invention to additional active agents such as
antihyperlipidemic drugs, such as statins (see, for example U.S. Pat. No. 7,989,434 and U.S.
Pat. No. 8,039,273, incorporated herein by reference).
[0181]     In some embodiments, the linker moiety comprises a heterocyclic "self-immolating
moiety" bound to the aromatic-cationic peptide (e.g., D-Arg, 2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2) and an
additional active agent (e.g., an antihyperlipidemic agent such as a statin) and incorporates an
amide group or beta-glucuronide group that, upon hydrolysis by an intracellular protease or
beta-glucuronidase, initiates a reaction that ultimately cleaves the self-immolative moiety
from the aromatic cationic peptide such that the additional active agent (e.g., statin) is
released from the peptide in an active form.
[0182]     Exemplary self immolating moieties include those of Formulas I, II, and III,
presented in Figure 12. In Figure 12, the wavy lines indicate the covalent attachment sites to
the aromatic cationic peptide and the statin, wherein:
U is 0, S or NR 6
Q is CR 4 or N;
   1    2          34
V , V 2and V are independently CR or N provided that for formula II and III at least one
        of Q, V 1 and V 2is N;
T is NH, NR 6 , 0 or S pending from said drug moiety;
R   , R 2,  R 3 and R 4are independently selected from H, F, Cl, Br, I, OH, -N(R 5) 2,
        N(R    5) 3 ', C 1 -C 8 alkylhalide, carboxylate, sulfate, sulfamate, sulfonate, -SO   2 R 5,
        -S(=O)R 5 , -SR 5, -SO             2 N(R 5) 2 , -C(=O)R    5, -CO    2R 5, -C(=O)N(R     5) 2,
        -CN,      -N   3, -NO     2, C 1 -C 8 alkoxy, C 1 -C g halosubstituted alkyl,
                                                    54

    WO 2014/022552                                                                       PCT/US2013/053008
        polyethyleneoxy, phosphonate, phosphate, C 1 -C s alkyl, C 1 -C g substituted alkyl,
        C 2 -C  8 alkenyl, C 2 -C    8substituted  alkenyl, C 2-C     8alkynyl,    C 2-C   8substituted
        alkynyl, C 6 -C   20 aryl, C 6-C 20 substituted aryl, C 1 -C     20 heterocycle, and C        1
        C 20 substituted heterocycle; or when taken together, R 2 and R 3 form a carbonyl
        (=0), or spiro carbocyclic ring of 3 to 7 carbon atoms; and
R 5 and R 6are independently selected from H, C 1 -C 8 alkyl, C 1 -C 8substituted alkyl, C                   2
        C 8alkenyl, C 2-C      8 substituted alkenyl, C 2-C      8 alkynyl, C 2-C     8 substituted alkynyl,
        C 6 -C  20 aryl, C 6-C   20 substituted aryl, C 1 -C    20 heterocycle, and C 1 -C      20 substituted
        heterocycle;
where C 1 -C   8substituted   alkyl, C 2-C    8 substituted alkenyl, C 2-C      8 substituted alkynyl, C        6
        C 20 substituted aryl, and C 2 -C     20 substituted heterocycle are independently
        substituted with one or more substituents selected from F, Cl, Br, I, OH, -N(R                     5 ) 2,
        -N(R     5) 3 ', C 1 -C 8 alkylhalide, carboxylate, sulfate, sulfamate, sulfonate, C             1
        C salkylsulfonate, C 1 -C      8 alkylamino,   4-dialkylaminopyridinium, C          1
                                                                  5                5          S
        C 8alkylhydroxyl, C 1 -C 8alkylthiol, -SO           2 R , -S(=0)R            , -SR    s
        SO 2 N(R 5) 2 , -C(=O)R          5, -CO         , -C(=O)N(R         5) 2, -CN,     -N       , -NO
                                                   2R                                             3            2,
        C 1 -C s alkoxy, C 1 -C g trifluoroalkyl, C 1 -C      8  alkyl, C 3 -C  12 carbocycle, C      6
        C 20 aryl, C 2-C   20 heterocycle, polyethyleneoxy, phosphonate, and phosphate.
[0183]    The linker moiety may further include a cleavable peptide sequence adjacent to the
self-immolative moiety that is a substrate for an intracellular enzyme, for example a cathepsin
such as cathepsin B, that cleaves the cleavable peptide at the amide bond shared with the self
immolative moiety (e.g. Phe-Lys, Ala-Phe, or Val-Cit). In some embodiments, the amino
acid residue chain length of the cleavable peptide sequence ranges from that of a single
amino acid to about eight amino acid residues. The following are exemplary enzymatically
cleavable peptide sequences: Gly-Gly, Phe-Lys, Val-Lys, Phe-Phe-Lys, D-Phe-Phe-Lys, Gly
Phe-Lys, Ala-Lys, Val-Cit, Phe-Cit, Leu-Cit, Ile-Cit, Trp-Cit, Phe-Ala, Ala-Phe, Gly-Gly
Gly, Gly-Ala-Phe, Gly-Val-Cit, Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly, Ala-Leu-Ala-Leu, Phe-N 9-tosyl-Arg, and
Phe-N 9-Nitro-Arg, in either orientation. Numerous specific cleavable peptide sequences
suitable for use in the present formulations can be designed and optimized in their selectivity
for enzymatic cleavage by a particular intracellular enzyme, e.g. liver cell enzymes.
                                                     55

    WO 2014/022552                                                              PCT/US2013/053008
[0184]     A spacer unit may be linked to the aromatic cationic peptide via an amide, amine or
thioether bond. The additional active agent (e.g., an antihyperlipidemic agent such as a
statin) may be connected to the self-immolative moiety of the linker via a chemically reactive
functional group pending from the additional active agent, such as a primary or secondary
amine, hydroxyl, or carboxyl group.
[0185]     Additionally or alternatively, the self-immolative linkers described herein can be
used to link aromatic-cationic peptides to antibodies, nucleic acids or other biologically
active molecules (e.g., antihyperlipidemic agents). For example, an aromatic cationic peptide
with or without a spacer may be attached to a linker that includes a cleavable peptide
sequence or beta-glucuronide group and a self-immolative linker attached to an antibody,
e.g., an antibody that reduces LDL-C, such as an antibody against a PCSK9 inhibitor and/or
an anti-ApoB agent, such as an antisense RNA.
[0186]     Exemplary schematics of illustrative embodiments of such formulations are shown
in Figure 13.
[0187]     In some embodiments, once the statin-peptide complex enters the cell or blood
stream, the linker is cleaved releasing the peptide from the antihyperlipidemic agent (e.g., a
statin). The formulations are not intended to be limited by linkers or cleavage means. For
example, in some embodiments, linkers are cleaved in the body (e.g., in the blood stream,
interstitial tissue, gastrointestinal tract, etc.), releasing the peptide from the second active
agent (e.g., an antihyperlipidemic drug such as a statin) via enzymes (e.g., esterases) or other
chemical reactions.
[0188]     Statins - As noted above, in one aspect, the present disclosure provides combination
therapies for the treatment of atherosclerosis comprising administering an effective amount of
peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, such as acetate
or trifluoroacetate salt in combination with one or more statins. In some embodiments the
peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 is chemically linked to the one or more statins. In
some embodiments, the peptide is linked to the statin using a labile bond such that hydrolysis
in vivo releases the two pharmaceutically active agents. A schematic diagram illustrating
exemplary embodiments is shown in Figure 7. In some embodiments, the linkage comprises
an ester, a carbonate, a carbamate or other labile linkage. Figure 8 shows illustrative
embodiments where when X=O, a carbonate linked pro-drug is formed. One skilled in the art
                                                    56

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
would understand that where X=NH, a carbamate linked pro-drug is formed. Potential
reactive sites on the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 and statins are shown in Figure 9.
[0189]    By way of example but not by way of limitation, Figure 10 illustrates how D-Arg
2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 could be linked to either CRESTOR* or LIPITOR* using a carbonate
linkage. By way of example but not by way of limitation, Figure 11 illustrates how D-Arg
2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 could be linked to CRESTOR* using a carbamate linkage.
[0190]    PCSK9 - In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides combination
therapies comprising administering an effective amount of peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe
NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, such as acetate or trifluoroacetate salt in
combination with one or more therapies targeting PCSK9. In some embodiments, the D-Arg
2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 peptide is conjugated to an anti-PCSK9 antibody to form a peptide
antibody conjugate. A variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents may be used. By way
of example, but not by way of limitation, in some embodiments, the peptide-antibody
conjugates are prepared using one or more of N-succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio) propionate
(SPDP), succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (SMCC),
iminothiolane (IT), bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters (such as dimethyl adipimidate
HCl), active esters (such as disuccinimidyl suberate), aldehydes (such as glutaraldehyde), bis
azido compounds (such as bis (p-azidobenzoyl) hexanediamine), bis-diazonium derivatives
(such as bis-(p-diazoniumbenzoyl)-ethylenediamine), diisocyanates (such as toluene 2,6
diisocyanate), or bis-active fluorine compounds (such as 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene).
[0191]    As noted above, in some embodiments, the peptide-antibody conjugate is generated
using a cleavable linker to facilitate release of the peptide in vivo. In some embodiments, the
cleavable linker is an acid-labile linker, peptidase-sensitive linker, photolabile linker, a
dimethyl linker, or a disulfide-containing linker. In some embodiments, the linker is a labile
linkage that is hydrolyzed in vivo to release the antibody and peptide. In some embodiments,
the labile linkage comprises an ester linkage, a carbonate linkage, or a carbamate linkage.
[0192]    Anti-Apo-B - In some embodiments, the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 is
chemically linked to an anti-Apo-B agent (e.g., an anti-Apo-B RNA, e.g., an antisense RNA)
using a labile linkage to form a pro-drug that upon hydrolysis in vivo releases the peptide and
the anti-Apo-B agent as active agents. In some embodiments, the labile linkage comprises an
ester linkage, a carbonate linkage, or a carbamate linkage. By way of illustration but not by
                                                57

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
way of limitation, Figure 9 shows potential reactive sites on the peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys
Phe-NH 2 at which an anti-Apo-B agent could be linked.
         Additional Formulations - Combination Therapy
[0193]     In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic agent and an aromatic cationic
peptide of the present disclosure may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutical
composition comprising at least one of the compounds disclosed herein together with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. Thus, in some embodiments, the compounds
disclosed herein can be administered either individually or together in any conventional oral,
parenteral or transdermal dosage form. In some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic agent
may be co-formulated in a fixed-dose combination with the aromatic cationic peptide. In
some embodiments, the antihyperlipidemic agent and the aromatic cationic peptide are
formulated in a capsule or pill for oral dosing in which the compounds are physically
separated. In such a formulation, one or both of the antihyperlipidemic agent and the
aromatic cationic peptide are in a solid, liquid, powder, or gel form. In some embodiments,
the antihyperlipidemic agent and the aromatic cationic peptide are in a fixed-dose
combination in which the two compounds are mixed together, for example in in a solid,
liquid, powder, or gel form.
         Dosage
[0194]     Dosage, toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the therapeutic agents can be
determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals,
e.g., for determining the LD50 (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED50 (the
dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population). The dose ratio between toxic and
therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD50/ED50.
Compounds which exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. While compounds that
exhibit toxic side effects may be used, care should be taken to design a delivery system that
targets such compounds to the site of affected tissue in order to minimize potential damage to
uninfected cells and, thereby, reduce side effects.
[0195]     The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in
formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies
preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no
toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed
                                                58

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
and the route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the methods, the
therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose can
be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that
includes the IC50 (i.e., the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half
maximal inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell culture. Such information can be
used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may be
measured, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography.
[0196]    Typically, an effective amount of the aromatic-cationic peptides and/or
cardiovascular agents, sufficient for achieving a therapeutic or prophylactic effect, range
from about 0.00000 1 mg per kilogram body weight per day to about 10,000 mg per kilogram
body weight per day. Preferably, the dosage ranges are from about 0.0001 mg per kilogram
body weight per day to about 100 mg per kilogram body weight per day. For example
dosages can be 1 mg/kg body weight or 10 mg/kg body weight every day, every two days or
every three days or within the range of 1-10 mg/kg every week, every two weeks or every
three weeks. In one embodiment, a single dosage of peptide ranges from 0.1-10,000
micrograms per kg body weight. In one embodiment, aromatic-cationic peptide
concentrations in a carrier range from 0.2 to 2000 micrograms per delivered milliliter.
[0197]    In some embodiments, a therapeutically effective amount of an aromatic-cationic
peptide may be defined as a concentration of peptide at the target tissue of 10-11 to 10-6 molar,
e.g., approximately 10-7 molar. This concentration may be delivered by systemic doses of
0.01 to 100 mg/kg or equivalent dose by body surface area. The schedule of doses would be
optimized to maintain the therapeutic concentration at the target tissue, most preferably by
single daily or weekly administration, but also including continuous administration (e.g.,
parenteral infusion or transdermal application).
[0198]    In some embodiments, the dosage of the aromatic-cationic peptide is provided at a
"low," "mid," or "high" dose level. In one embodiment, the low dose is provided from about
0.0001 to about 0.5 mg/kg/h, suitably from about 0.001 to about 0.1 mg/kg/h. In one
embodiment, the mid-dose is provided from about 0.01 to about 1.0 mg/kg/h, suitably from
about 0.01 to about 0.5 mg/kg/h. In one embodiment, the high dose is provided from about
0.5 to about 10 mg/kg/h, suitably from about 0.5 to about 2 mg/kg/h. In an illustrative
embodiment, the dose of cardiovascular agent is from about 1 to 100 mg/kg, suitably about
25 mg/kg.
                                               59

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0199]    The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage and
timing required to effectively treat a subject, including but not limited to, the severity of the
disease or disorder, previous treatments, the general health and/or age of the subject, and
other diseases present. Moreover, treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective
amount of the therapeutic compositions described herein can include a single treatment or a
series of treatments.
[0200]    The mammal treated in accordance present methods can be any mammal, including,
for example, farm animals, such as sheep, pigs, cows, and horses; pet animals, such as dogs
and cats; laboratory animals, such as rats, mice and rabbits. In some embodiments, the
mammal is a human.
                                          EXAMPLES
[0201]    The present invention is further illustrated by the following example, which should
not be construed as limiting in any way.
Example 1. Effects of Aromatic-Cationic Peptides in Protecting Against Atherosclerosis
in a Mouse Model
[0202]    The effects of aromatic-cationic peptides in protecting against atherosclerosis in a
mouse model were investigated.
[0203]    Apoprotein E deficient mice (Jackson Laboratories, 600 Main Street, Bar Harbor,
ME) were used in this study. The mice were male, 7-8 weeks of age, and between 18-20 g in
weight. An initial total cholesterol measurement was made on 30 mice, and the mice were
grouped into two groups of 15 to match the total cholesterol measurements. Both groups
were fed a "western diet" (40 kcal% butterfat, 0.15 % [wt/wt] cholesterol, Harlan Teklad diet
TD-88137). Starting at t = 0, the control group of 15 mice received vehicle only (phosphate
buffered saline at pH 7.4), while the test group of 15 mice received aromatic-cationic peptide
reconstituted in phosphate buffered saline. Body weights of the mice were recorded weekly,
and mortality checks were performed daily.
[0204]    The aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (sterile lyophilized
powder, reconstituted in phosphate buffered saline) was tested. For the 12-week study, test
mice received a single, daily dose of the peptide, subcutaneously at 1 mg/kg. Control mice
received a single daily dose of vehicle.
                                                60

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
[0205]     ExperimentalProtocol/DataCollection. Blood was collected every four weeks
(orbital plexis) under isoflurane anesthesia (3%) and blood lipids were determined. Plasma
lipid analysis was conducted for both groups at t = 0, 4, 6, 8, and 12 weeks. Plasma lipid
analysis using an autoanalyzer included total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (Trigs),
phospholipids (PL), free cholesterol (FC), and cholesterol ester (CE, by calculation). Gel
electrophoresis was used to measure levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C),
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol
(VLDL-C).
[0206]    Histopathology/Histomorphometery: Following the 12 week treatment, mice were
euthanized within 48 hours after the last dose by CO 2 asphyxiation and the vascular tree was
perfused with 5 mL of phosphate buffered saline (pH 7.4). The aorta and aortic sinus were
removed for examination. Thoracic aorta were isolated, trimmed of fat, and fixed in formalin
for 48-72 hours before analysis. For en face analysis, aortas were laid out and pinned on
black matrix for photography, and stained with Sudan IV. Vessels were imaged for surface
involvement using a Nikon computerized image analysis system and the percent of the aortic
surface area covered by lipid was calculated. Two determinations were done for each image
(Quan 1 and Quan 2), and the average was computed. The data were then computed by
group and statistically analyzed. Following staining and morphometric analysis, total lipids
were extracted from the aortas using the Bligh-Dyer method. WAKO Diagnostics kits
(WAKO Diagnostics, Inc., 1600 Bellwood Road Richmond, VA 23237-1326) were then used
to evaluate total cholesterol, free cholesterol, and cholesterol ester. Cholesterol leves were
quantitate nad expressed relative to protein levels. Values are expressed as pig lipid per mg
protein (see e.g., Figure 1).
[0207]    For the aortic sinus, the heart and approximately 5 mm of the ascending aorta was
cut from the remainder of the aorta. The apex of the heart was removed and remaining heart
with the attached aortic segment was fixed and sectioned (in OCT medium and frozen in a
dry ice - 2 methylbutane bath). Serial 10 ptm thick cryosections were made beginning with
the ascending aorta and proceeding through the entire aortic sinus until the ventricular
chamber was reached. The sections were stained with Oil Red 0 or Sudan IV and counter
stained with Harris hematoxylin. Alternate sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin.
The sinus was imaged at 5 step levels in the region of interest, i.e., the aortic root, for a total
distance of 300 ptm and the lipid-staining areas and measured (total cross sectional area)
                                                 61

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
using a Nikon computerized image analysis system. The data were then computed by group
and statistically analyzed.
[0208]    Results are shown in the tables below and in Figures 1-4. Table 7 shows the en face
analysis of atherosclerotic lesions for each mouse in the study. Column 1: (sample ID #)
represents each mouse, 1-15 are control animals (received vehicle alone), and 16-20 are test
animals (received aromatic-cationic peptide); column 2: (Quan 1) shows a first determination
of % of the aortic surface covered by lipid for each mouse in the study; column 3 (Quan 2)
shows a second determination of % of the aortic surface covered by lipid for each mouse in
the study; column 4: shows the average % of the surface of the aorta showing lesions for each
mouse in the study; column 5 shows the average % of the surface of the aortas of control or
test mice showing lesions; column 5 shows the standard error of the mean for each group
(control or test animals). As shown in Table 7, treatment with the aromatic-cationic peptide
reduces atherosclerotic lesions in the aorta. Aromatic-cationic peptides of the present
disclosure are therefore useful in treating atherosclerosis and related signs, symptoms and
complications of atherosclerosis.
                     Table 7: En Face Analysis of Atherosclerotic Lesions
              Sample        Quan 1      Quan 2       Ave. % of         Ave      SEM
                 ID#                                   Lesion
                   1         5.810        6.517         6.164          7.189     0.990
                   2         4.501        5.089         4.795
                   3         2.637        3.567         3.102
                   4         3.416        3.719         3.568
                   5        18.228       17.115        17.672
                   6         2.951        3.919         3.435
                   7        11.164       10.464        10.814
                   8         4.492        4.538         4.515
                   9         6.002        6.080         6.041
                  10         6.303        5.610         5.957
                  11        10.293       12.311        11.302
                  12         8.044        7.019         7.532
                  13         9.162        8.497         8.830
                  14         8.610        7.629         8.120
                  15         6.000        5.981         5.991
                  16         2.562        2.667         2.615          5.328     1.027
                  17         0.914        0.870         0.892
                  18         8.769        9.284         9.027
                  19         2.832        3.205         3.019
                  20         7.137        6.881         7.009
                                                62

   WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
              Sample       Quan 1       Quan 2        Ave. % of       Ave       SEM
                ID#                                      Lesion
                 21         5.198         4.468          4.833
                 22         2.128         1.863           1.996
                 23          1.388        1.021           1.205
                 24         10.000        9.895           9.948
                 25         2.990         2.536          2.763
                 26         7.091         6.536           6.814
                 27         4.700         4.768          4.734
                 28         0.775         0.892           0.834
                 29         11.589       10.888          11.239
                 30         13.857       12.122          12.990
[0209]   Table 8 shows levels of total cholesterol (TC), free cholesterol (FC) and cholesterol
ester (CE) in the thoracic aorta at 12 weeks for the 30 mice tested in the study. Mouse
"sample" 1-15 are control mice (received vehicle only); mouse "sample" 16-20 are test mice
(received aromatic-cationic peptide). As shown in Table 8, treatment with aromatic-cationic
peptides lowers the total cholesterol, free cholesterol and cholesterol esters in the thoracic
aorta. Aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure are therefore useful in treating
atherosclerosis and related signs, symptoms and complications of atherosclerosis.
                                Table 8: Thoracic Aorta Lipids
                                    Sample          TC          FC      CE
                                       #           gg/mg gg/mg        gg/mg
                      Vehicle           1           37.3         8.3    28.9
                      Vehicle          2            28.7         7.2    21.5
                      Vehicle          3            23.5         9.2    14.2
                      Vehicle          4            28.7         7.7    21.0
                      Vehicle          5            59.6        20.5    39.1
                      Vehicle          6            21.3         6.2    15.1
                      Vehicle          7            37.6         6.8    30.8
                      Vehicle           8           19.0         5.0    14.0
                      Vehicle          9            27.1         7.0    20.1
                      Vehicle          10           31.7        12.5    19.2
                      Vehicle          11           37.0         5.2    31.8
                      Vehicle          12           20.6         3.0    17.6
                      Vehicle          13           24.5         4.2    20.3
                      Vehicle          14           27.3         3.5    23.7
                      Vehicle          15           28.3         6.3    22.0
                                      AVE           30.1         7.5    22.6
                                      SEM            2.6         1.1     1.8
                      Peptide          16           21.4         7.6    13.8
                      Peptide          17            6.7         4.0     2.7
                                                63

   WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
                                    Sample          TC        FC        CE
                      Peptide          18          35.4       5.1      30.3
                      Peptide          19          17.7       3.0      14.7
                      Peptide          20          38.8       8.1      30.7
                      Peptide          21          16.8       2.7      14.1
                      Peptide          22           8.1       3.5       4.6
                      Peptide          23          20.1       14.6      5.6
                      Peptide          24          35.1       6.6      28.5
                      Peptide          25           9.4       3.8       5.6
                      Peptide          26          24.9       3.6      21.3
                      Peptide          27          21.7       3.0      18.6
                      Peptide          28           7.9       3.3       4.6
                      Peptide          29          19.0       7.6      11.4
                      Peptide          30          22.5       9.5      13.0
                                     AVE           20.4       5.7      14.6
                                      SEM           2.6       0.9       2.5
[0210]    Table 9 shows the total lesion area in the aortic root 300 pim across the aortic valve.
Sample ID# 1-15 are control mice (received vehicle only); Sample ID# 16-20 are test mice
(received aromatic-cationic peptide). As shown in Table 9, treatment with aromatic-cationic
peptides reduces total lesion area. Aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure are
therefore useful in treating atherosclerosis and related signs, symptoms and complications of
atherosclerosis.
               Table 9: Total Lesion Area in Aortic Root 300pm
                               Across Aortic Valve
              Sample       Area(mm 2)        Sample ID#     Area(mm 2)
                 ID#
                   1         325.02               16           323.88
                   2         250.92               17           109.92
                   3         342.78               18           480.18
                   4         264.06               19           100.44
                   5         402.84               20           362.52
                   6         293.28               21           259.38
                   7         408.48               22           185.04
                   8         323.88               23           310.38
                   9         429.54               24           401.46
                  10         302.04               25           201.84
                  11         343.62               26           347.58
                  12         375.36               27           280.92
                  13         613.26               28           117.96
                  14         376.14               29            427.8
                                               64

    WO 2014/022552                                                         PCT/US2013/053008
                 15           225.36               30           331.5
               AVE            351.77                           282.72
               SEM             24.18                            30.58
[0211]    Table IA-1OD and Figures 4A-H show plasma lipid levels at t= 0 weeks, 4 weeks,
8 weeks, and 12 weeks. For each of the tables, total cholesterol (TC), free cholesterol (FC),
cholesterol ester (CE), triglycerides (Trigs) and phospholipid (PL) is shown for each of the 15
control (sample # 1-15) and 15 test animals (sample # 16-30). Also provided are average
values (AVE), and standard error of the mean (SEM). As show in tables I0A-OD, and in
Figures 4A-4H, at 4, 8 and 12 week time points, treatment with aromatic-cationic peptides
reduces plasma total cholesterol, VLDL-C, LDL-C, free cholesterol, cholesterol ester,
triglycerides and phospholipid levels. Aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure
are therefore useful in treating atherosclerosis and related signs, symptoms and complications
of atherosclerosis.
                                                65

 WO 2014/022552                                            PCT/US2013/053008
                  Table 1OA: Plasma Lipid Levels - Week 0
                Spife (electrophoresis)Results
Sample     TC   mg/dL        mg/dL     mg/dL   FC      CE    Trigs      PL
   #            HDL-C VLDL-C LDL-C
   1       405    22           25         358  136     269     84       255
   2       546    63           39        444   159     387    174       357
   3       304    28           19        258   110     194    132       248
   4       320    28           18        274   119     201     75       263
   5       323    29           24        270   118     205     96       277
   6       302    34           25        242   120     182    165       277
   7       381    38           24         319  140     241    167       328
   8       342     12          24         307  120     222    158       285
   9       361    25           31         305  127     234    179       288
  10       434     15          21         398  139     295    151       316
  11       431     5           19        406   142     289    253       295
  12       564     19          33         513  157     407    121       331
  13       621    30           27         564  173     448    154       374
  14       301     13          16        273   117     184    103       264
  15       536     12          27        498   162     374    109       299
 AVE       411    25           25         362  136     275    141       297
 SEM        28     4            2          27   5       23     12        10
  16       302     19          25        258   119     183     75       267
  17       318    34           23        260   121     197     88       267
  18       376    32           37         307  134     242    117       308
  19       302    37           20        245   110     192     96       255
  20       323    35           20        268   116     207     71       267
  21       335    21           19        295   131     204    138       306
  22       369    38           27         304  129     240     88       298
  23       550    41           36        474   184     366    167       369
  24       309     6           15        287   113     196     88       238
  25       409    31           26         352  139     270    136       320
  26       431    26           25         380  134     297    151       313
  27       552    39           31        481   170     382    191       332
  28       457    22           24        410   151     306    188       343
  29       490    29           28        432   159     331    154       338
  30       808     8           29         773  220     588    353       413
 AVE       422    28           26         368  142     280    140       309
 SEM        35     3            2          35   8       28     18        12
                                        66

 WO 2014/022552                                             PCT/US2013/053008
                   Table 1OB: Plasma Lipid Levels - Week 4
                Spife (electrophoresis) Results
Sample     TC   mg/dL        mg/dL      mg/dL   FC      CE   Trigs       PL
                HDL-C       VLDL-C LDL-C
   1      1195    39           54         1101  456     739   82        634
   2      1103    31           51         1022  394     709   54        558
   3      1114     11          51         1052  424     690   44        540
   4       876     18          37         822   328     548   59        436
   5      1124     11          58         1058  444     680    18       480
   6       913    23           27         863   332     581   62        456
   7      1052    25           48         978   382     670   54        528
   8       908     15          31         862   352     556   72        460
   9       948     16          38         894   372     576   72        470
  10       850    20           37         794   338     512   64        420
  11      1245    32           34         1181  502     743   75        590
  12      1274    42           32         1200  582     692   128       690
  13      1267    33           22         1212  524     743   98        658
  14      1116    32           30         1054  406     710   57        540
  15      1177    32           29         1115  510     667   57        568
 AVE      1078    25           39         1014  423     654   66        535
 SEM       38      3            3          36    20      20    6         21
  16       799     18          35         745   308     491    18       422
  17       924    20           37         866   344     580   39        482
  18       976    20           37         918   354     622   28        452
  19      1139     0           19         1120  408     731   85        560
  20      1038     13          44         982   412     626   59        526
  21       673     7           18         648   256     417    18       320
  22       940    23           23         893   366     574   46        506
  23      1046    32           39         975   386     660   108       556
  24       835    20           44         770   320     515   59        446
  25       822     15          41         766   286     536   33        416
  26      1026    32           28         966   396     630   44        516
  27      1223    45           31         1147  462     761   67        580
  28       935    32           30         874   354     581   44        510
  29      1248    44           32         1171  516     732   80        666
  30      1337    49           35         1254  636     701   144       750
 AVE       997    25           33         940   387     610   58        514
 SEM       47      4            2          45    25      25    9         27
                                         67

  WO 2014/022552                                            PCT/US2013/053008
                   Table 1OC: Plasma Lipid Levels - Week 8
                 Spife (electrophoresis) Results
Sample      TC   mg/dL       mg/dL       mg/dL   FC     CE   Trigs      PL
                 HDL-C VLDL-C            LDL-C
   1       1590    26          76         1488   418   1172    79      548
   2       1342    10          107        1225   352   990     58      518
   3       1270     4          66         1201   346   924     39      482
   4       1611    40           82        1489   394   1217    60      526
   5       1610    16          107        1488   420   1190    79      536
   6       902     19          51          831   278   624     53      410
   7       1484    28          54         1402   408   1076    89      564
   8       986     23          75          887   288   698     58      380
   9       1491    24          70         1397   394   1097    65      554
  10       1568    23           86        1459   388   1180    63      534
  11       1667    30          149        1488   470   1197   113      594
  12       1842    86          143        1613   574   1268   209      738
  13       1695    62          137        1496   448   1247   142      534
  14       1719    22          106        1591   454   1265    96      570
  15       765     18          39         708    250   515     41      396
 AVE       1436    29          90         1318   392   1044    83      526
 SEM        83      5           9           74    21    64     11       23
  16       1262    42          101        1119   322   940     34      416
  17       1004    34          73          897   294   710     31      456
  18       1505    27           86        1392   386   1119    34      474
  19       1183    33          79         1071   318   865     51      448
  20       1545    19          112        1415   392   1153    48      516
  21       943      8          34         901    290   653     31      424
  22       1008    45           88         875   294   714     51      480
  23       1473    16          79         1378   388   1085    53      488
  24       1023    32          69         922    308   715     43      436
  25       956     41          59          856   286   670     75      440
  26       1435    25          93         1317   362   1073    63      556
  27       1414    19          74         1320   366   1048    39      516
  28       1147    41           80        1025   308   839     34      470
  29       1534    43          109        1382   404   1130    67      540
  30       1797    57          119        1621   530   1267   195      728
 AVE       1282    32           84        1166   350   932     57      493
 SEM        69      3           6           64    17    53     10       20
                                          68

    WO 2014/022552                                                          PCT/US2013/053008
                          Table 1OD: Plasma Lipid Levles-Week 12
  Sample             Spife (electrophoresis) Results
     #        TC      mg/dL        mg/dL      mg/dL       FC        CE        Trigs     PL
                      HDL-C       VLDL-C LDL-C
      1      1115        39          36         1041      351       764        42      444
     2        637        15          35         587       225      412         25       336
      3       803        23          24         756       269       533        25       381
     4       1243        48          105        1090      380       863        31      477
      5      1335         9          69         1257      429       907         11     499
      6       874        28          36         811       307       567        31      427
      7      1077        35          43         998       346       731        20      445
      8       827        23          44         759       277       550        20       379
      9      1205        27          43         1135      376       829        24       586
     10       910        36          44         830       306       604         16     417
     11      1220        50          62         1108      371       848        93      497
     12      1754        56          59         1640      543      1211        60       700
     13      1710        17          83         1609      558      1152        97       689
     14      1085        38          76         972       359       725        51      422
     15       750        12          31         707       269      482         60       396
   AVE       1103        30          53         1020      358      745         40      473
   SEM         84        4            6          79        24        60         7       28
     16       898        38          39         821       291       607        27       366
     17       540        20          35         485       205       335        49       318
     18       884        10          21         854       287       597         10      320
     19       937        41          43         852       296       640        37      432
    20       1420        21          71         1328      418      1002         18     491
    21        719         5          21         693       242      477         39       321
    22        674        31          32         611       229      445         39       363
    23        745        20          33         692       269      476         37       394
    24        990         2          26         962       315       675         13      374
    25        999        40          63         896       312       687        25      423
    26       1379        28          76         1275      419       960        74       536
    27       1255         1          36         1218      386       869        89       521
    28        558        23          30         505       219       339        97       340
    29       1317        31          83         1203      413       904        112      575
    30       1736         2          46         1688      535      1201        158      741
   AVE       1003        21          44         939       322      681         55      434
   SEM         90        4            5          88        24        66         11       31
[0212]    Results are further shown in Figures 1-3. Figure 1A shows that at 12 weeks, the %
lesion area is lower in the treated (dark bar) versus untreated (white bars) group. Thus there
                                                69

    WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
is a decrease in plaque present in the thoracic aorta of treated versus untreated subjects.
Figure 1B is a photograph of lesions on the vehicle only aorta versus the treated aorta. As
shown in the bar graph in Figure 2, the level of thoracic aorta plaque cholesterol content (TC
=  total cholesterol; FC = free cholesterol and CE   = cholesterol ester) is lower in the treated
(dark bars) versus untreated (vehicle, white bars) group at 12 weeks. Figure 3 shows that, at
12 weeks, mean lesion area is lower in the treated group versus the untreated (vehicle) group.
Accordingly, the aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure are useful for
decreasing the amount of atherosclerotic plaque in both the aorta and aortic root, and for
decreasing the plaque cholesterol content. Thus, the aromatic-cationic peptides of the present
disclosure are useful for treating or preveing atherosclerosis and related signs, symptoms and
complications of atherosclerosis.
Example 2. Effects of Aromatic-Cationic Peptides in Conjunction with an
Antihyperlipidemic Agent (e.g., Statins) to Protect Against Atherosclerosis and Lower
Cholesterol Levels in a Mouse Model
[0213]     The effects of aromatic-cationic peptides in protecting against atherosclerosis, in
conjunction with one or more antihyperlipidemic agents, in this example, statins, in a mouse
model are investigated as follows.
[0214]     Mice are treated as described in Example 1. That is, Apoprotein E deficient mice as
described in Example 1 are used in the study. An initial total cholesterol measurement is
made on the mice, and the mice are grouped into groups of 15 to match the total cholesterol
measurements. The groups are fed a "western diet" (40 kcal% butterfat, 0.15% [wt/wt]
cholesterol). Starting at t = 0, the control group of 15 mice receives vehicle only, while the
test groups of 15 mice receive aromatic-cationic peptide and one or more statins. Body
weights of the mice are recorded weekly, and mortality checks are performed daily.
[0215]     The aromatic-cationic peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (sterile lyophilized
powder) is tested. Each group of test mice receives a single, daily dose of the peptide,
subcutaneously at 1, 3, 5 or 10 mg/kg, and also receives, simultaneously atorvastatin,
fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin or rosuvastatin at 0.1, 0.5, 0.75 or 1 mg/kg. Control mice
receive vehicle only. The injections continue for 12 weeks, at which time the mice are
sacrificed and analyzed as described in Example 1.
[0216]     Plasma lipid analysis using an autoanalyzer includes an evaluation of total
cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (Trigs), phospholipids (PL), free cholesterol (FC), and
                                                70

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
cholesterol ester (CE, by calculation). Gel electrophoresis is used to measure levels of high
density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and
very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C). Histopathology/histomorphometery is
performed as described above in Example 1.
[0217]    Results: It is anticipated that mice receiving both the peptide and the statin will
show decreased levels of total cholesterol, free cholesterol, triglyceride, phospholipid,
cholesterol ester, LDL-C and VLDL-C as well as a decrease in the lesions as compared to
subjects receiving vehicle only. It is also anticipated that in some instances, subjects
receiving the combination treatment (aromatic-cationic peptide plus statin) will exhibit a
synergy between the two drugs, such that a lower dose of peptide, the statin or both will
achieve desired results, e.g., lowered levels of total cholesterol, free cholesterol, triglyceride,
phospholipid, cholesterol ester, LDL-C and VLDL-C and/or lesions.
[0218]    Accordingly, it is anticipated that the results will further demonstrate that the
aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure, alone or in combination with one or
more statins, will be useful for treating atherosclerosis, and signs, symptoms or complications
of atherosclerosis, including but not limited to increased total cholesterol, free cholesterol,
triglyceride, phospholipid, cholesterol ester, LDL-C and VLDL-C and increased
atherosclerotic lesions.
Example 3. Aromatic-cationic peptides increase coenzyme 010 levels
[0219]    Fibroblasts were treated with an aromatic-cationic peptide of the present disclosure,
and levels of coenzyme Q10 were evaluated.
[0220]    Human skin fibroblasts from normal subjects were incubated under standard tissue
culture medium containing high glucose levels to support anaerobic conditions. At
approximately 90% confluence, cells were incubated in the presence of 10 nM D-Arg-2'6'
Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 for a period of either one day (24h) or five days as shown in Table 11
below. The culture medium was not changed during the incubation period. Cells were
harvested and the cellular level of CoQ was determined using methods known in the art.
Data represents the average n = 3-6.
                                                71

    WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
               Table 11: Treatment of fibroblasts with aromatic-cationic peptide
            Cells            Medium             Peptide Amount          Time of Peptide
                                                                           Treatment
         fibroblast           DMEM                      0                       0
            cells
         fibroblast           DMEM                   10 nM                 16-24 hours
            cells
         fibroblast           DMEM                   10 nM                   5 days
            cells
[0221]      Results are shown in Figure 5. As shown in Figure 5, exposure to the aromatic
cationic peptides of the present disclosure increased coenzyme Q10 levels in fibroblast cells.
Accordingly, the aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure are usful for increasing
coenzyme QI        levels in subjects in need thereof. For example, the aromatic-cationic
peptides of the present disclosure are useful for increasing coenzyme Q10 levels in subjects
taking one or more statin drugs and/or in subjects suffering from a disease or conditions
characterized by, or caused by low (e.g., below normal or control levels) coenzyme Q10
levels. The aromatic-cationic peptides of the present disclosure are useful to treat, prevent or
ameliorate the signs and/or symptoms of diseases or conditions characterized by low (e.g.,
below normal or control levels) coenzyme Q10 levels.
                                         *      *      *      *
[0222]      The present invention is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments
described in this application, which are intended as single illustrations of individual aspects
of the invention. Many modifications and variations of this invention can be made without
departing from its spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the invention, in
addition to those enumerated herein, will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the
foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the
scope of the appended claims. The present invention is to be limited only by the terms of the
appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.
It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular methods, reagents,
compounds compositions or biological systems, which can, of course, vary. It is also to be
understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
                                                  72

    WO 2014/022552                                                             PCT/US2013/053008
[0223]     In addition, where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of
Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby
described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.
[0224]     As will be understood by one skilled in the art, for any and all purposes, particularly
in terms of providing a written description, all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any
and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be
easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down
into at least equal halves, thirds, quarters, fifths, tenths, etc. As a non-limiting example, each
range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third, middle third and upper
third, etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as "up to,"
"at least," "greater than," "less than," and the like, include the number recited and refer to
ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally,
as will be understood by one skilled in the art, a range includes each individual member.
Thus, for example, a group having 1-3 cells refers to groups having 1, 2, or 3 cells. Similarly,
a group having 1-5 cells refers to groups having 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 cells, and so forth.
[0225]     All patents, patent applications, provisional applications, and publications referred
to or cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety, including all figures and
tables, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the explicit teachings of this specification.
[0226]     Other embodiments are set forth within the following claims.
                                                  73

   WO 2014/022552                                                            PCT/US2013/053008
                                            CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.     A method for treating atherosclerosis in a mammalian subject in need thereof, the
       method comprising administering an effective amount of (i) a peptide D-Arg-2'6'
       Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (ii) an
       antihyperlipidemic drug, wheiren the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic drug are
       chemically linked.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is selected from the
       group consisting of: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin,
       pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, clinofibrate, clofibrate, simfibrate, fenofibrate, bezafibrate,
       colestimide, colestyramine, ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin),
       ALTOPREV (lovastatin extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and
       atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC* (sitagliptin/simvastatin),
       LESCOL* (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR®
       (atorvastatin), LIVALO* (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL*
       (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN*
       (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR® (simvastatin).
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin.
4.     The method of claim 3, wherein the statin is selected from the group consisting of:
       ADVICOR® (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV® (lovastatin extended
       release), CADUET® (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin),
       JUVISYNC* (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL® (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL
       (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR® (atorvastatin), LIVALO* (pitavastatin),
       MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin
       extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR®
       (simvastatin).
5.     The method of claim 1, wherein treatment includes decreasing the size or number of
       atherosclerotic plaques in the subject, and/or decreasing the cholesterol content of an
       atherosclerotic plaque in the subject.
                                                74

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
6.     A method for preventing atherosclerosis in a mammalian subject in need thereof, the
       method comprising administering an effective amount of (i) a peptide D-Arg-2'6'
       Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (ii) an
       antihyperlipidemic drug, wherein the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic drug are
       chemically linked.
7.     The method of claim 6, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is selected from the
       group consisting of: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin,
       pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, clinofibrate, clofibrate, simfibrate, fenofibrate, bezafibrate,
       colestimide, colestyramine, ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin),
       ALTOPREV (lovastatin extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and
       atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin),
       LESCOL* (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR®
       (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL*
       (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN*
       (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR® (simvastatin).
8.     The method of claim 6, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin.
9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the statin is selected from the group consisting of:
       ADVICOR® (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV® (lovastatin extended
       release), CADUET® (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin),
       JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL® (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL
       (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR® (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin),
       MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin
       extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR®
       (simvastatin).
10.    The method of any one of claims 6-9, wherein the subject is predisposed to
       atherosclerosis.
11.    A method for ameliorating the signs, symptoms or complications of atherosclerosis,
       the method comprising administering an effective amount of (i) a peptide D-Arg-2'6'
       Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (ii) an
       antihyperlipidemic drug, wherein the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic drug are
       chemically linked.
                                                75

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
12.    The method of claim 11, wherein the signs, symptoms or complications of
       atherosclerosis include one or more selected from the group consisting of: elevated
       levels total cholesterol, VLDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, free cholesterol,
       cholesterol ester, phospholipids, triglycerides, and atherosclerotic lesions.
13.    The method of claim 11, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is selected from the
       group consisting of: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin,
       pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, clinofibrate, clofibrate, simfibrate, fenofibrate, bezafibrate,
       colestimide, colestyramine, ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin),
       ALTOPREV (lovastatin extended-release), CADUET* (amlodipine and
       atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin), JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin),
       LESCOL* (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR*
       (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin), MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL*
       (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN*
       (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR® (simvastatin).
14.    The method of claim 11, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is a statin.
15.    The method of claim 14, wherein the statin is selected from the group consisting of:
       ADVICOR® (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV® (lovastatin extended
       release), CADUET® (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR® (rosuvastatin),
       JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL® (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL
       (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR® (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin),
       MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin
       extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR®
       (simvastatin).
16.    The method of claim 11, wherein ameliorating the signs, symptoms or complications
       of atherosclerosis includes decreasing the size or number of atherosclerotic plaques in
       the subject, and/or decreasing the cholesterol content of an atherosclerotic plaque in
       the subject.
17.    A method for delaying onset, ameliorating or eliminating statin side effects in a
       subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering an effective amount of a
       peptide D-Arg-2'6'-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
       wherein the peptide is chemically linked to the statin.
                                                76

    WO 2014/022552                                                           PCT/US2013/053008
18.    The method of claim 17, wherein the statin side effect includes one or more of
       myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, kidney failure, diabetes, memory loss, decreased
       coenzyme Q10 levels and mitochondrial dysfunction.
19.    The method of claim 17, wherein the statin is selected from the group consisting of:
       atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin,
       ADVICOR* (niacin extended-release/lovastatin), ALTOPREV               (lovastatin extended
       release), CADUET* (amlodipine and atorvastatin), CRESTOR* (rosuvastatin),
       JUVISYNC*® (sitagliptin/simvastatin), LESCOL® (fluvastatin), LESCOL XL
       (fluvastatin extended-release), LIPITOR® (atorvastatin), LIVALO*® (pitavastatin),
       MEVACOR® (lovastatin), PRAVACHOL* (pravastatin), SIMCOR* (niacin
       extended-release/simvastatin), VYTORIN* (ezetimibe/simvastatin), and ZOCOR®
       (simvastatin).
20.    A method for increasing statin dosage in a subject in need thereof comprising:
       administering an effective amount of a statin at a first dosage level, and an aromatic
       cationic peptide, wherein the statin and the aromatic-cationic peptide are chemically
       linked;
       evaluating the subject for side-effects characteristic of the statin, wherein the side
       effects in the subject are reduced or absent as compared to a control subject
       administered the statin and not the aromatic cationic peptide;
       administering a statin at a second dosage level, wherein the second dosage level is
       higher than the first statin dosage level.
21.    The method of claim 20, wherein the peptide is D-Arg-2'6'Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2.
22.    The method of claim 20, wherein the statin comprises LIPITOR® or CRESTOR®.
23.    The method of claims 20, wherein the side effect characteristic of the statin includes
       one or more of myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, kidney failure, diabetes, memory loss,
       decreased coenzyme Q10 levels and mitochondrial dysfunction.
24.    The method of any one of claims 1-23, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable salt
       comprises acetate salt or trifluoroacetate salt.
                                               77

    WO 2014/022552                                                         PCT/US2013/053008
25.    The method of any one of claims 1-25, wherein the peptide and the
       antihyperlipidemic drug or the statin are linked using a labile linkage that is
       hydrolyzed in vivo to release the peptide and the antihyperlipidemic drug or the statin.
26.    The method of claim 26, wherein the labile linkage comprises an ester linkage, a
       carbonate linkage, or a carbamate linkage.
27.    The method of any one of claims 1, 6 or 11, wherein the antihyperlipidemic drug is an
       anti-PCSK9 antibody.
28.    The method of claim 27, wherein the peptide and the anti-PCSK9 antibody are linked
       using a bifunctional protein coupling agent.
29.    The method of claim 28, wherein the bifunctional protein coupling agent is N
       succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio) propionate (SPDP), succinimidyl-4-(N
       maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (SMCC), iminothiolane (IT), a
       bifunctional derivative of an imidoester, an active ester, an aldehyde, a bis-azido
       compound, a bis-diazonium derivative, a diisocyanate, or a bis-active fluorine
       compound.
30.    The method of claim 27, wherein the peptide and the anti-PCSK9 antibody are linked
       using a labile linkage.
31.    The method of claim 30, wherein the labile linkage comprises an ester linkage, a
       carbonate linkage, or a carbamate linkage.
32.    The method of any one of claims 1, 6 or 11, wherein the antihyperlipidemic agent is
       an Apo-B antisense oligonucleotide.
33.    The method of claim 32, wherein the peptide and the Apo-B antisense oligonucleotide
       are linked using a labile linkage.
34.    The method of claim 33, wherein the labile linkage comprises an ester linkage, a
       carbonate linkage, or a carbamate linkage.
                                              78

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
