Some embodiments include a fantasy sports game. In some embodiments, an expected
performance value may be determined that may affect the outcomes of a fantasy
game. In some embodiments, player location may affect available opponents for a
game. Groups may play against one another in a fantasy competition. Various
examples of fantasy gaming options are given.

                                         FANTASY GAMING
                                 Cross Reference to Earlier Application
 5          This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 13/788,412 filed
   March 7, 2013.
                                                 Field
            Some embodiments may relate to sport events, games based on actions of players in
   live sport events, other types of events, and/or other types of games.
10
                                              Background
            Gaming may include risking an amount of money that one event will or will not
   happen. Fantasy sports may include one or more games related to events taking place in real
   sports games.
15
                                    Brief Description of the Figures
            Figure 1 shows an apparatus for playing a game, according to some embodiments.
            Figure 2 shows an example fantasy sports system according to some embodiments.
            Figure 3 shows an example process that may be performed in some embodiments.
20          Figure 4 shows an example process that may be performed in some embodiments.
                                                   Summary
            The following should be understood to be embodiments, not claims.
            A. A method comprising: determining, by a computing device, a first group of
25 players to which a first player belongs; determining, by the computing device, a second
   group of players to which a second player belongs; determining, by the computing device,
   that the first player is allowed to play a game against the second player based on the first
   group and the second group being rival groups, in which the first player is not allowed to
   play games against other members of the first group; matching, by the computing device, the
30 first player and the second playing the game; and determining, by the computing device, a
   winner of the game.
                                                    1

            A. 1. The method of claim A, comprising: determining that the first player belongs to
   the first group based on a location of the first player. A.2. The method of claim A,
   comprising: determining that the first player belongs to the first group based on a
   characteristic of the first player. A.2.1. The method of claim A.2, in which the characteristic
 5 includes ta least one of: the first player being a fan of a first team, the first player being a
   student at a first school, the first player being an alumni of a first school, the first player
   being a patron of a first merchant, the first player living in a first location, and the first
   player being a first gender. A.3. The method of claim A, in which the game includes a
   fantasy sports game. A.4. The method of claim A, comprising: requiring the first player to
10 pick at least one members of a first fantasy sports team for the game from a first set of
   players that is specific to the first group and the second player to select one member of a
   second fantasy sports team for the game from a second set of players that is specific to the
   second group. A.5. The method of claim A, in which determining the first group includes
   assigning the first player to the first group without a request from the first player to be
15 assigned to the first group. A.6. The method of claim A, comprising: forming the first group,
   in which the first group is defined to include players that have a particular first
   characteristic. A.6. 1. The method of claim A.6, in which forming the first group includes
   forming the first group in response to a request to form the group defined by the first
   characteristic from a sponsor of the first group.
20          A.7. The method of claim A, comprising: determining outcomes of a plurality of
   other games that are each between respective members of the first group and respective
   members of the second group. A.7.1. The method of claim A.7, comprising: determining an
   outcome of a group game based on the out outcome of the game and plurality of other
   games. A.7.1.1. The method of claim A.7.1, in which the first group wins the group game if
25 a total number of games of the first game and the plurality of other games won by members
   of the first group exceeds a total number of games of the first game and the second game
   won by members of the second group. A.7.1.2. The method of claim A.7.1, in which a
   group that wins the group game is based on a total number of points earned by players in the
   first group through the first game and the plurality of other games compared to a total
30 number of points earned by players in the second group though the first game and the
   plurality of other games. A.7.1.3. The method of claim A.7.1, comprising: assigning a prize
                                                     2

   to a group that wins the group game. A.7.1.3.1. The method of claim A.7.1.3, in which
   assigning the prize includes making a payment to respective accounts of players in the group
   that wins the group game. A.7.1.3.2. The method of claim A.7.1.3, in which assigning the
   prize includes making a payment to an account of a sponsor of the group that wins the group
 5 game. A.7.1.3.2.1. The method of claim A.7.1.3.2, in which the sponsor is not a player in
   the group that wins the group game. A.7.1.3.2.2. The method of claim A.7.1.3.2, in which
   the sponsor includes a charity chosen by the players in the group that wins the group game.
           A.8. The method of claim A, in which the game includes a fantasy game that is based
   on a real life tournament, in which players in the tournament are dropped from the
10 tournament as the tournament progresses and are not replaced in the fantasy game that is
   based on the tournament so that some members of each fantasy team in the game do not earn
   points after elimination from the tournament. A.9. The method of claim A, comprising:
   during play of first game, facilitating the first player offering a buyout of the game to the
   second player. A.9.1. The method of claim A.9, comprising: receiving, from the first player,
15 an indication of an amount of money that the second player will be awarded if the second
   player accepts the buyout; and presenting that amount to the second player in an offer to end
   the game. A.9.1.1. The method of claim A.9.1, comprising: receiving an acceptance of the
   offer; and in response to receiving the acceptance, awarding the amount of money to the
   second player and awarding a second amount of money to the first player, in which the
20 second amount of money includes an amount of money in a prize pool for the game minus
   the amount of money. A.10. The method of claim A, comprising: presenting the first player
   with an option to offer a doubling raise of the game to the second player prior to a start of
   the game. A. 11. The method of claim A, comprising: receiving from at least one of the first
   player and the second player a selection of a statistic related to a real event that is to be used
25 to score the game. A. 12. The method of claim A, in which the first player access the game
   through a gaming operator that determines outcomes for the game and the second player
   access the game through a service provider that provides at least one of a white-labeled
   access to the game and an over the counter access to the game.
           B. An apparatus comprising: a computing device; and a non-transitory medium
30 having stored thereon a plurality of instructions that when executed by the computing device
   cause the apparatus to: determine a first group of players to which a first player belongs;
                                                     3

   determine a second group of players to which a second player belongs; determine that the
   first player is allowed to play a game against the second player based on the first group and
   the second group being rival groups, in which the first player is not allowed to play games
   against other members of the first group; match the first player and the second playing the
 5 game; and determine a winner of the game.
            Any of the above example embodiments may be combined in any manner.
                                         Detailed Description
            I. Example Embodiments
10          Colloquially, gaming may be referred to as wagering but it should be understood that
   embodiments are not limited to the statutory definition of wagering that is limited to games
   of chance but rather may include games of skill, fantasy games, games of chance, and/or any
   other type of games, and therefore the term gaming may be used when discussing some
   embodiments rather than the term wagering. Gaming may include a risk of an amount of
15 money that some event will happen. Such risk may be skill and/or risk based, booked and/or
   pari-mutuel, and/or take any form desired. Gaming may include paying a fee to enter into a
   contest that is based on the occurrence of an event. The winner of such a contest may be
   provided with an award (e.g., money based on a sum of contest entry fees). Wagering may
   be used herein to refer to such skill or risk based gaming in some instances and should not
20 be understood to be limited to one or the other type of gaming unless specified otherwise.
   Gaming may include wagering, betting, risking money, paying an entry fee to a contest,
   and/or any other form of gaming as desired. Various embodiments may apply to any type of
   gaming in any combination and/or arrangement.
25 Fantasy Game Examples
            In some embodiments, a gaming operator may facilitate game play between multiple
   players. In some embodiments, a game may be a fantasy game. It should be recognized that
   embodiments are not limited to fantasy games but that examples are given in terms of a
   fantasy game in a non-limiting manner. Moreover, embodiments may include any fantasy or
30 non-fantasy game or event on which a wager is placed as desired. U.S. patent applications
   61/479,539, 12/605,826, 13/160,746 and 61/668,245 are hereby incorporated herein by
   reference. Some example fantasy games and/or wagers that may be used in some
                                                    4

   embodiments are described in these references. Further examples of fantasy games are
   described herein. These examples are given as non-limiting examples only. Various features
   discussed may be combined with any fantasy game in any manner or combination.
           Various examples are given in relation to a popular variation of fantasy events,
 5 namely fantasy sports, but it should be understood that various embodiments may include
   any fantasy event. In some embodiments, fantasy sports may provide a manner for a
   participant to act in a role similar to a coach and/or general manager. In some embodiments,
   a participant may be given the ability to draft, create, trade, dismiss and/or otherwise
   manage a fantasy team.
10         The events, participants, and/or members of teams to which a fantasy event may be
   related may include any desired events, participants, and/or members of teams. For
   example, some events may include political events (e.g., elections), sporting events (e.g.,
   football, baseball, basketball, hockey, soccer, rugby, golf, tennis, automotive racing, animal
   racing), competitions (poker, test taking, rock throwing, tree growing), other events, and so
15 on. For example, some participants and/or members of teams may include politicians,
   human players, animal participants, robots, natural phenomena, plants, physical things, and
   so on. It should be recognized that fantasy event competitions may be constructed based on
   any kind of activity. For example, fantasy competitions may be constructed based on an
   activity in which participants in the fantasy competition may compete vicariously based
20 upon observations or statistics regarding some underlying activity (e.g., wind speed,
   elections, tree growth, baseball, and so on).
           A fantasy team for an activity may include one or more members that each
   correspond to one or more respective real and/or active participants in the activity. For
   example, a fantasy team for a sport may include one or more players of the sport. The
25 players may include active players in a real league for the sport. The players may include
   active league players from one or more real sports league.
           In some embodiments, a member of a team may include a portion of a real team. For
   example, in some embodiments, in addition to and/or as an alternative to a particular
   member of a team being selected for a fantasy team, a portion of a team may be selected for
30 a fantasy team. For example, a defensive team of a football team may be selected for a
   fantasy team regardless of actual members of the defensive team. Accordingly, scoring of
                                                    5

   such a fantasy team may relate to actions and/or performance of the entire defensive team
   rather than a single member of the team.
            In some embodiments, a member of a fantasy team may include something related to
   a real life team that is not a actual player on a real life team. For example, in some
 5 embodiments, the fans of a team may be part of a fantasy team, a head coach of a real life
   team may be part of a fantasy team, and/or any other non-player that is related to a real life
   team may be part of a fantasy team. A gaming operator may use actions and/or statistics
   related to such non-player members to score a fantasy team involving such non-player
   members. For example, a fans may be given points based on attendance, noise generated,
10 and/or any other measurable characteristic. A head coach may be given points based on use
   of timeouts, novelty and/or number of different plays, and so on. It should be recognized
   that any non-player may be used and any types of information may be used to determine a
   score earned by such a non-player. A gaming operator may receive such information and
   convert the information to a score that it assigns to a fantasy team.
15          In some embodiments, a participant in a fantasy sports game may select members to
   form a fantasy team for a sport. In some embodiments, a participant may select or "draft",
   currently active real-life players to form a fantasy team. Accordingly, a fantasy team for a
   sport may include a plurality of members that each correspond to a respective player of the
   sport. In some embodiments, a selected member for a fantasy team may include a group of
20 players (e.g., the defense of a particular football team may be a member of a fantasy team,
   the outfield of a particular baseball team may be a member of a fantasy team, and so on)
   and/or non-players (e.g., fans, head coach).
            In some embodiments a plurality of participants may form a fantasy league and
   select players in the fantasy league. Each player in the league may pay a fee to join the
25 league. The fee may be pooled by a gaming operator for use in award payment, booked by
   the gaming operator as a wager, and/or paid to the gaming operator as a fee. The fantasy
   league may be referred to as a fantasy game, and the winning participant in the league may
   receive some award (e.g., from the gaming operator, from pooled funds held by the gaming
   operator, based on a fee paid to join the league, etc.). As an example, in a fantasy football
30 league, a plurality of league participants (e.g., two) may each select one or more
   professional football players (e.g., 5) onto their fantasy team and pay a fee to be part of the
                                                     6

   league (e.g., $10). Based on performance of those selected players in real sports events, the
   participants may earn points in the fantasy sports league and a winner may be determined
   and paid an award (e.g., $20 minus some rake taken by the gaming operator).
            It should be recognized that the form of risk and/or relationship between and/or
 5 among the parties to such a game and/or a gaming operator may take any form. Terms such
   as form a game are used in a broad sense to refer to any such form. For example, a wager
   may be established directly between two participants, a contractual obligation may be
   established between a gaming operator and each of the participants separately, a pari-mutuel
   pool may be established into which money may be placed, a book of bets may be formed
10 into which money may be placed, and/or any desired method of forming a game may be
   used. In some embodiments, to form a game, each participant in a game may pay a contest
   entry fee to enter the contest. Such fees may be pooled together and used to pay a winner. A
   data structure may record information regarding formed games, and/or other information
   about gamers and/or games.
15          In some embodiments, a central authority (e.g., a gaming operator) may establish
   and/or enforce rules for a fantasy sports game. Such a central authority may include a
   casino, a server, a house, a book maker, a web site, and/or any other desired gaming
   operator. Such a central authority may be referred to as a commissioner, and/or a treasurer.
   In some embodiments, multiple entities may operate as separate parts of such a central
20 authority (e.g., one treasurer and one commissioner). In some embodiments, the central
   authority may be configured to determine outcomes of a game, accept wagers, adjust
   balances, accept money, determine if a game condition is satisfy, establish leagues, maintain
   accounts, pay winnings, perform a method to facilitate functionality described herein, and so
   on. A central authority may include one or more computing devices (e.g., servers,
25 processors, mobile devices, and so on) configured to perform one or more actions in order to
   facilitate gaming.
            One example of a game that may be used in some embodiments may include a
   Cantor 5 (or Cantor any number) game that may be offered by Cantor Gaming and/or Cantor
   Data Services. In such a game, a league may be opened (e.g., by player and/or operator).
30 Some non-limiting examples are given in terms of a 2 person league, but a league may be
   any number of users (e.g., 2, 5, 10, etc.). When a league is full (e.g., players equal to the
                                                   7

   maximum number have joined), the league may be closed and a game may be formed
   between/among the players that joined the league. So, for example, a user may desire to play
   a $50 dollar Cantor 5 game and so may form a two person Cantor 5 league with a $50 buy-in
   (e.g., risked amount, contest entry fee) by entering information through a website. A second
 5 user may see the formed league through the website and may join the league. At that point,
   the players may be entered into a $50 game with one another. Cantor may take a cut of the
   buy-ins for offering the fantasy service and may use the rest of the buy-ins to pay an award
   to a winner of the game. Cantor may pool the buy-ins into a pool that may be used to
   provide a winner some award.
10          At some point before a start of a game and/or some other closing trigger, each player
   may be required to select members for their fantasy team. Members may be chosen in any
   manner (e.g., round robin, individually, and so on). In some embodiments, each player may
   independently choose a team so that a team of one player does not affect ta team of another
   player and that each player may have some or all same players on their team. A gaming
15 operator (e.g., Cantor) may set an expected point total for each team (e.g. based on historical
   performance of each player on the team). To set such an expected point total Cantor may
   intentionally skew the number lower to encourage players to choose higher performing
   players. Based on the assigned expected value of each team, a spread may be created
   between the team. For example, if team A is expected to earn 95 points and team B is
20 expected to earn 97 points, then a 2 point spread between the teams may be formed. A
   winner may be determined for the game based on the play of real games so that if Team B,
   for example, wins by more than two points, team B is the winning team because it beat the
   spread.
            In some embodiments, a system may be configured to provide one or more
25 participants with fantasy sports contest-related information. Fantasy sports contest-related
   information may include any suitable information associated with one or more fantasy sports
   contests. For example, fantasy sports contest-related information may include information
   regarding a participant's one or more rosters, a participant's standing in one or more fantasy
   sports contests, point tallies associated with a participant in one or more fantasy sports
30 contests, information regarding the number of trades that a participant may make,
   information regarding the amount of fantasy money available to a participant for contracting
                                                    8

   players for a roster, information regarding deadlines to make trades or to perform any other
   suitable task associated with one or more fantasy sports contests, an outcome of a fantasy
   game and/or any other suitable information.
           In some embodiments, a system may be configured to provide one or more
 5 participants with information regarding one or more real life games. Such information may
   include information regarding real-life athletes (e.g., names, statistics, etc.), real-life sports
   leagues (e.g., game schedules, standings, etc.), real-life sporting events (e.g., baseball
   games, golf tournaments, tennis matches, etc.), sports arenas, weather information, sports
   commentary, or any other suitable information regarding real-life sports or events.
10         In some embodiments, various types of fantasy games may be played. For example,
   a head-to-head type game may be played in some embodiments. A head-to-head game may
   include a participant competing against one or more participant (e.g., another player, a
   casino or other gaming operator) in a game (e.g., over a week, over a season and so on). In
   some embodiments, the fantasy team that accumulates the most points in the game period
15 based on performance in actual games may win the game. As another example, a "rotisserie
   league" game may be played in some embodiments. In such a game, participants associated
   with respective fantasy teams compile won-lost records by competing head to head against
   each of the other teams in the league. A winner in such a system may be determined based
   on the performance of active real life athletes in real life games. It should be recognized that
20 any desired game type and/or scoring system may be used in various embodiments.
           In some embodiments, a playoff type game may be played. For example,
   participants may play one or more games during a regular season of fantasy games that may
   or may not correspond to a regular season of an underlying sport. Participants may be
   eliminated during the regular season in some embodiments. Participants may acquire points
25 and/or wins during the regular season. Participants remaining at some point in the game,
   with a most number of points and/or wins at some point in the game may qualify for a
   playoff type game. The playoff game may be similar and/or different to a "regular season"
   game. For example, a participant may be able to select members for their playoff team and
   engage in games in the playoffs with the selected fantasy team. A winning of the playoff
30 may be larger than a winning of a regular season. Players that may be selected may be
                                                   9

   limited to those players that are participating in a playoff in an underlying game. Different
   rules regarding budgets, uniqueness, and/or scoring may be used in a playoff game.
            One or more games may include a user-specified accomplishment. For example, a
   group (e.g., head to head, pool, rotisserie, league, etc.) of players may play a group game.
 5 Each player may identify an accomplishment and a team. The team may win if the team
   achieves the accomplishment. Each player with a winning team may be a winning player in
   the game. A gaming operator may set some characteristic that determines how the money is
   split based on difficulty of achieving the accomplishment (e.g., players with more difficult
   accomplishments may gain more money from a pool). A single player game may be played
10 in which similarly an odds or other characteristic may be determined by a house that
   facilitates play of the game.
            Some embodiments may include a pari-mutuel pool for a league. For example, each
   player that enters a team into a league may pay money. The winner of the league may win at
   least a portion of the pool of money.
15          It should be recognized that a fantasy sports game need not be limited or restricted in
   time. For example, a fantasy sports contest may last an entire season, a portion of the season,
   a definite period of time (e.g., one month, two weeks, three days, one hour, etc.), the
   duration of a particular event (e.g., Wimbledon, etc.), a portion of a particular event, or any
   other suitable period of time.
20          In some embodiments, a fantasy sports contests may include event game options. For
   example, fantasy sports contests may involve a participant wagering on whether particular
   outcomes will occur (e.g., whether a particular golfer will make the next put). Such games
   may be played against a house, another participant (e.g., a participant against whom a team
   to team game is played, and so on).
25          It should be recognized that these examples are only one non-limiting examples and
   that any manner of fantasy gaming and/or or other gaming/wagering may be used as desired.
   Example Interface Discussion
            Some embodiments may include presenting an interface through which a player may
30 form a team for such a game and/or receive/enter any information about such a game. Such
   an interface may identify if one or more possible members has been chosen as part of a
                                                   10

   casino team and/or other team (e.g,, that may eliminate the selection by a player for a game
   against that particular team in some embodiments). Such members may be excluded from an
   interface in some embodiments if rules of such an embodiment prevent the member form
   being added to a team for some reason (e.g., the member is in another team, there are
 5 already a number of common members to teams and addition of a member would exceed a
   maximum threshold of common members, a member is expected to be injured, and so on).
   Such an interface may identify a number of times a member has been selected for a team
   and/or an amount of money that has been risked on and/or against teams with a member.
   Information for such an interface may be populated by a gaming operator and presented to a
10 user through a computing device (e.g., a cellular telephone, a kiosk, etc.)
            In some embodiments, one or more characteristics for a game involving a player's
   team, a casino's team and/or any number of other teams may be determined based on
   members of each respective team and/or an accomplishment selected by a player. For
   example, in some embodiments, odds, moneylines, point spreads, a handicap and/or any
15 desired characteristic may be determined for a game of one team against another team based
   on expected performance of members of one team compared to members of another team.
   Various examples of determining characteristics are given herein.
            In some embodiments, such information may be displayed in an interface related to a
   selection of a team. For example, a handicap or other information (such as odds, payout
20 ratios, etc.) may be displayed in an interface for the selection of a team. Such information
   may identify how a selection of one player or another player has affected or would affect a
   handicap if added to a team. For example, a handicap may identify a current handicap at a
   current makeup of a team even if the team is not complete or finalized. As members are
   added and/or change, the handicap may adjust to reflect the next state of the team.
25          In some embodiments, in response to a selection of a player's team and/or an
   opponent's team, such characteristics may be displayed to a player though an interface. For
   example, in response to a formation of a player's team and a selection by that player that the
   player desires to enter into a game setting that team against an accomplishment being
   achieved by the team, an indication of an odds (or other characteristic) for such a game may
30 be identified through an interface to the player. The interface may allow the payer to accept,
   alter, set a money amount, reject, and so on the game having the identified characteristic.
                                                   11

   For example, an interface may identify that a player may enter into the game with the
   player's team being required to earn 8.5 points in order to win the game with a 3 to 1 odds.
   A player may be able to choose between achieving the accomplishment or not achieving the
   accomplishment with same or different odds. The player may enter a dollar amount in
 5 response to such an indication to play a game, press an accept button to enter into the game,
   reject entry into the game, and/or take any other actions through such an interface.
           A user may choose members of a team, view odds, choose a side to game on,
   confirm a game, and so on through such an interface. A user may select a player team. A
   handicap of points may be determined (e.g., the player team has a 1 point advantage), and/or
10 a money line may be determined (e.g., $115 must be game to win $100). Some embodiments
   may include tournament elements, group elements, raising elements, surrender elements,
   and/or any other elements that may be described herein or elsewhere. An interface may
   display controls and/or information regarding such elements to facilitate play.
           It should be recognized that while some embodiments may be described in terms of a
15 game against a casino and/or a wager against a casino, that other embodiments may include
   a game against another player and/or a game involving a team formed by another player
   and/or casino (e.g., casino formed team, player-specified accomplishment). Elements of one
   embodiment may apply to another embodiment in any combination (e.g., an interface that
   includes information such as handicaps about possible opponent teams may be included in a
20 plurality of embodiments).
   Example Systems
            One example fantasy sports system is described in U.S. patent number 6,371,855 to
   Gavriloff, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Another example fantasy
25 sports system is described in U.S. patent number 7,001,279 to Barber, which is hereby
   incorporated herein by reference. Yet another example of a fantasy sports system is
   described in U.S. patent publication number 2008/0287198 to Callery, which is hereby
   incorporated herein by reference. An example of a fantasy sports system that may include
   additional interactive elements is described in U.S. patent number 7,351,150 to Sanchez,
30 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. One variation of a fantasy sports game is
   given in U.S. patent publication 2005/0064937 to Ballman, which is hereby incorporated
                                                  12

   herein by reference. An example of a fantasy sports betting system that may provide
   additional advice to players is described in U.S. patent publication 2007/0060380 to
   McMonigle, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. An example commissioner
   system for a fantasy sports system is described in U.S. patent publication number
 5 2008/0200254 to Cayce, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. An example
   system for managing assets and transactions related to a fantasy sports system is described
   in U.S. patent publication 2008/0215168 to Charchian, which is hereby incorporated herein
   by reference. An example of pari-mutuel wagering related to fantasy sports is described in
   U.S. patent publication number 2009/0023495 to Koustas, which is hereby incorporated
10 herein by reference.
            It should be understood that the above are merely illustrative elements of fantasy
   sports contests. Any other suitable arrangement or approach may be used. It will further be
   understood that the nature of the fantasy sports contests may vary depending on which
   activity or sport is involved or based on any other suitable criteria.
15          Some embodiments may include a gaming operator that includes one or more
   systems, such as a fantasy sports system. One example fantasy sports system 200 is
   illustrated in Figure 2. As illustrated, fantasy sports system 200 may include a gaming
   system 201, an event server 203, a network 205, a client computing device 207, a staff
   computing device 209, a mobile device 211, and an event source 213.
20          Gaming system 201 may be configured to perform any desired services related to a
   game. For example, gaming server 201 may receive one or more indications related to a
   game (e.g., achievement, teams, money, groups, raising, surrender, etc.). gaming system
   201 may match players into a game, may form games, may audit games, may
   determine/provide outcomes of games, may transmit data for interfaces, may act as treasurer
25 or house for a game, may provide gaming opportunities, may perform a method such as one
   described herein, and so on. In some embodiments, gaming system 201 may allow a player
   to enter into a game against another player.     It should be recognized that gaming system
   201 may include any number of systems, computing devices, and/or any desired
   components.
30          In some embodiments, gaming system 201 may include an exchange-based gaming
   system. One example exchange based gaming system is described in U.S. patent application
                                                    13

   number 10/831,375 to Burgis and entitled System and method for managing risk associated
   with product transactions, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In some
   embodiments, bid and/or offers for a game may be received and games may be formed
   based on the bids and/or offers.
 5         It should be recognized that the above example of a gaming system is given as a non
   limiting example only. In some embodiments, a gaming system 201 may receive an
   indication of a fantasy sports team on which a game is desired. Gaming system 201 may
   form a game defined by the team and the accomplishment. Such a game may include one or
   more gaming system defined characteristics (e.g., odds, payout ratios, handicap, etc.) that
10 may be based on the team and/or the accomplishment.
           In some embodiments, a casino or other venue may act as an intermediary (e.g.,
   gaming server) between players. For example, a casino may enter into two offsetting games
   with two players. In some embodiments, a window of time may be set for particular gaming
   opportunities (e.g., gaming opportunities for particular teams). The gaming server may
15 accept some games that offset one another so that risk is minimized by the gaming server.
   Some examples of a gaming portal that may be used in some embodiments are described in
   U.S. patent application number 12/979,546, which is hereby incorporated herein by
   reference.
           Event server 203 may be configured to receive and/or process information regarding
20 events. The events may include real life sporting events. For example, events may include
   hits, runs, completed passes, incomplete passes, interceptions, catches, bases stole, blocks,
   three point shots, steals, fumbles, shots on goal, and/or any other information. Events may
   include events at a recent game and/or events from non-recent games. Events may be
   received substantially simultaneously as the event happening.
25         Event server 203 may determine fantasy sport outcomes and/or points based on the
   events. For example, in an embodiment in which a participant receives a point if a real life
   player that corresponds to a member of the participant's fantasy sports team scores a
   touchdown, then the event server may be configured to add a point to the participant when
   information identifying that the player scored the touchdown is received. In some
30 embodiments, event server 203 may be configured to maintain historical records of event
   information. Such information may be used periodically to determine outcomes and/or
                                                  14

   points. In some embodiments, event information may be used to determine performance
   values for a fantasy sports team.
           Some examples of receiving and processing event information are described in U.S.
   patent application number 12/367,566 to Plott and entitled Mobile Gaming Alert, which is
 5 hereby incorporated herein by reference.
           Network 205 may include any desired communication network or networks.
   Network 205 may include wired portions and/or wireless portions. Network 205 may
   include a local network, the internet, and/or any desired network. Network 205 may allow
   portions of system 200 to communicate among one another and/or outside systems.
10         Client computing device 207 may include any desired computing device. Client
   computing device may be configured to allow a participant to enter and/or access
   information regarding a fantasy sports game. For example, client computing device 207 may
   include a network connected computer at a casino, at a remote location, and/or at any
   desired location. Client computing device 207 may include a special purpose computer
15 configured to display sporting statistics, game feeds, game option and so on on one or more
   displays (e.g., that display an interface such as one described herein). Client computing
   device 207 may include input and/or output elements for money related to one or more
   games (e.g., a ticket in ticket out device, a credit card device, a cash dispenser, a cash intake
   element, etc.). Client computing device 207 may communicate with one or more other
20 elements of system 200, such as gaming system 201 to submit or receive information.
   System 200 may include any number of client computing devices that may allow any
   number of participants to play any number of fantasy sports games.
           Staff computing device 209 may include a computing device configured to be
   operated by a staff member of a gaming establishment, such as a casino. Staff computing
25 device 209 may include a device at a sports book at which a participant may tell a staff
   member about a desired game, the staff member may enter the information to create a game,
   a bid for a game, a fantasy sports team, an accomplishment, and so on.
           Mobile device 211 may include any desired mobile computing device. For example,
   mobile device 211 may include a mobile telecommunications device such as a cell phone, a
30 mobile gaming device and so on. An example mobile gaming device is described in U.S.
   patent application number 11/868,013 to Lutnick and entitled Game of Chance Processing
                                                    15

   Apparatus, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Other example mobile gaming
   devices may include tablet computers, smartphones, and so on. Mobile device 211 may
   communicate over a wireless network, such as a portion of network 205. Mobile device 211
   may allow a participant to enter and/or receive information related to a fantasy sports team
 5 and/or game.
            Event source 213 may include any desired source of information related to events.
   For example, event source 213 may include a television, an rss feed, a news feed, a news
   paper publication, an announcer, a web site, a log of events, a phone system, a television,
   and so on. Event source 213 may be part of system 200 or may be separate form system 200
10 (e.g., a system run by a sports league or television channel such as ESPN, NFL.com, and so
   on). Event source may be connected to the internet and provide information about events to
   system 200.
            Various elements of a system may be considered a module. For example, an interface
   module may receive, transmit, and/or perform any actions for allowing interfaces of any
15 type to function; a gaming module may determine information, process games, determine
   outcomes, and/or perform any actions for allowing gaming functionality; an accounting
   module may function to manage accounts; and/or any collections of modules (e.g., that
   match or do not match elements and/or functions portions that may be described herein) may
   be used in some embodiments.
20          It should be recognized that system 200 is given as a non-limiting example only.
   Various embodiments may include additional, alternative, fewer, different, and so on
   components as desired. For example, some embodiments may include a web server, an
   authentication server, and or other servers as desired. It should be recognized that system
   200 may not be a singular system, but rather may include various components that may be
25 owned, operated, and/or manufactured by different entities. System 200 and/or one or more
   components thereof may operate to facilitate gaming such as by performing one or more
   methods described herein or otherwise. In some embodiments a system, for example, may
   be part of a cloud computing environment, an over the counter wagering environment,
   and/or a white labeled gaming service environment.
30
                                                   16

   Player Groupings Examples
            Some embodiments may include gaming between groups of players. Figure 3
   illustrates an example process that may be performed in some embodiments to facilitate such
   group-based gaming. Process 300 may begin at block 301 and/or in some other manner
 5 (e.g., such as with a registration process as may be discussed elsewhere herein). Process 300
   may be performed by system 200 and/or one or more components of system 200 such as
   gaming system 201, event server 203, a processor, and/or any other device.
            As indicated at block 301, some embodiments may include determining a first group
   for each of a first set of players. The set of players may include any number of players. Such
10 a determination may be made for each player in response to a request from the player to join
   a group, in response to some characteristic of the player, in response to a request from
   another to have the player join a group, and/or based on any desired action or characteristic.
            As an example, the first group may be a location based group. Players in a particular
   location may be determined to be part of the first group based on their presence at the
15 location. A location, for example, may be a bar, a state, a college campus, and/or any desired
   location. Various location determination technologies may be used to make such allocation
   determination and are known in the art (e.g., gps, location based on wifi connection, ip
   based location, triangulation, etc.).
            A location's affinity (or any characteristic's affinity) to a group may be determined
20 in some embodiments. Such an affinity may be established in response to a request, based on
   a desire of a gaming operator, randomly, in response to a request from a player, and so on.
   For example, an owner of a location may request that the location be associated with the
   group, a gaming operator may determine that users are in a group based on gaming history, a
   player may form a group with a given characteristic through a user interface, and so on.
25          A location or other characteristic may be a present location/characteristic and/or a
   prior location/characteristic. For example, in some embodiments, a location may include a
   current location so that all and/or some players in a particular location may be determined to
   be in a first group that is defined by that location. In some embodiments, a location may
   include a past location so that players that have been in the location are determined to be in
30 the group.
                                                     17

             As another example, the location may include one or more prior locations associated
   with a player. For example, players that have spent more than a threshold amount of time at
   a location may be determined to be in the group, players that have visited the location more
   than a threshold number of times may be determined to be part of the group, players that
 5 visit the location more than some other location may be in the group, and/or any use of
   historic and/or current location information may be used to determine membership in one or
   more groups.
            It should be recognized that while some embodiments have been described as
   including location based groups, that such examples are non-limiting. Groups may be
10 defined by any desired characteristic. For example, groups may be defined as fans of a band,
   fans of a team, alumni of a school, people with a particular name, people with a particular
   gender, peole that access a particular network, people with children, people with any
   characteristic whether voluntary or involuntary as desired.
            Such group definitions may be determined by request (e.g., from a group
15 founder/sponsor such as a school, bar, member of the group, team, band, etc.) and/or by a
   gaming operator without a request to form such a group. For example, a group may be
   formed for a bar so that the bar can play group games against another bar that also has a
   group in response to a bar owner and/or bar patron requesting that a gaming operator form
   the group. A location may be defined as the premises of the bar defined by gps coordinates,
20 a location proximate to a gps coordinate of the bar (e.g., within some defined distance), in a
   geofence that covers the premises of the bar, connected to the wifi network that covers the
   bar (e.g., in some embodiments players that connect to a particular wifi network may be
   assigned to that wifi network's associated group), and/or in any other manner. Similarly, any
   characteristic (e.g., one based on a discrete or continuously measurement) may be defined
25 by a member of a group, a creator of a group, a gaming operator, and so on as desired to
   define a group.
            Some embodiments may include receiving a request to join a group. For example, a
   player with a location or other characteristic may be eligible to join a group that is based on
   the location or characteristic but must request to join the group. Players that request without
30 the characteristic may be denied entry into the group. A gaming operator may make a
   determination as to such eligibility by determining existence of the characteristic.
                                                   18

            In some embodiments a player may be placed in a group without such a request. For
   example, A gaming operator could form groups based on gaming patterns (e.g., you are a
   Bears fan based on Bears wagers, you are a Packers fan based on Packers wagers). A player
   may or may not be required to verify entrance into a particular group.
 5          As would be understood as a non-limiting example from the above discussion, one
   example embodiment of determining that each of the first players is part of the first group
   may include one or more of determining the first group defined by a first location,
   determining that each of the first players are and/or have been at the first location, and
   determining that each of the first players belongs in the first group based on those
10 determinations.
            As indicated at block 303, some embodiments may include determining a second
   group for each of a second set of players. The second set of players may include any number
   of players. Determination of a group, determination of a characteristic that defines a group,
   determination of membership of a player to a group, and/or any other actions related to
15 block 303 or the like may take a form that may be similar to a form as discussed above with
   respect to block 301.
            As would be understood as a non-limiting example from the above discussion, one
   example embodiment of determining that each of the second players is part of the second
   group may include determining the second group defined by a second location (or other
20 second characteristic that may be of a same or different type than a first characteristic that
   defines a first group), determining that each of the second players are and/or have been at
   the second location (and/or have and/or have had the second characteristic), and determining
   that each of the second players belongs in the second group based on those determinations.
            As indicated at block 305, some embodiments may include matching one or more of
25 the first set of players against one or more of the second set of players in one or more games
   based on the one or more of the first set of players being in the first group and the one or
   more of the second set of players being in the second group. The players may be matched
   together in a fantasy game and/or any other game.
            A determination may be made that the first group and second group are rival groups.
30 For example, the groups may be affiliated with rival teams, rival locations, rival
   characteristics, rival bars, and so on. A request may be made from one or more of the groups
                                                   19

   to initiate a rivalry in some embodiments (e.g., one or more members of a first group may
   challenge a second group to compete in games). A gaming operator may initiate a rivalry in
   some embodiments based on such a request or otherwise without such a request. Based on
   such a determination, matching between members of the groups may be performed. A
 5 gaming operator may track rivalries and may allow or disallow games to be played based on
   those rivalries. In some embodiments all groups may be rivals of all other groups.
            Matching may take various forms. For example, in some embodiments, matching
   may include actively placing a player into a game against another player (e.g., forming a
   game in a data structure by a gaming operator). In other embodiments, matching may
10 include allowing a player to join a game against another player, removing a restriction on
   one player joining a game against another player, counting a game between two players as
   part of a group challenge, and/or any other type of actions that may facilitate some form of
   gaming between groups. In some embodiments players in a same group may be restricted
   from play against one another. In some embodiments, only players in rival groups may be
15 allowed to play against one another. In some embodiments any players may play against
   each other but such play may only qualify for some type of group challenge if the players
   that play against each other are in rival groups. A gaming operator may track, monitor,
   enforce, impose, and/or otherwise manager such group play restrictions.
            Accordingly, in some embodiments, a location of a player may determine the other
20 players that the player may play against based on the other players' locations. For example,
   a group of people in a first bar may be matched against players in a second bar to play a bar
   vs bar fantasy sports game. This type of group-based matching may enable a bar to bar,
   school to school, state to state, etc. challenge in a gaming environment.
            As another example of matching that may be used in some embodiments, a match
25 may be made on a group to group basis. For example, a single game may be played between
   two groups. In a fantasy sports environment, each group may choose a team and those group
   teams may play against one another. In some embodiments, a single player from each group
   may pick the team so that the players are representatives of the groups. The players to be
   representatives may be chosen by votes from the group, by record in other games, by a
30 gaming operator (e.g., randomly), by a runner of a group, and so on. A gaming operator may
   facilitate such representative choosing or other group team choosing.
                                                    20

            As indicated at block 307, some embodiments may include facilitating play of one or
   more games involving the one or more of the first set of players and the one or more of the
   second set of players. A game may include any type of game whether wagering or
   otherwise. Some embodiments are discussed in terms of a fantasy type game. A game may
 5 include individual games and/or group based games. In some embodiments multiple
   individual games involving individuals from each of the groups may be played. Those
   games may be used to determine an outcome of a group to group game. Outcomes may be
   determined in various manners such as those discussed herein or otherwise known in the art
   (e.g., based on event happenings in real events monitored by a gaming operator to determine
10 a fantasy sports outcome). Winners may be awarded some prize (e.g., based on a buy-in
   amount).
            In some embodiments, a game may include individual games and/or a group
   challenge. For example, individual players in each group may play against players in another
   group in individual games. The individual games may aggregate together in some manner to
15 form a group game. For example, a group challenge may be played in which the number of
   wins by individuals in each group are summed and the group with the most wins wins the
   group challenge. For example if more people in group 1 win their games against people in
   group 2 then group 1 wins a group game. As another example of an aggregate outcome, a
   group that wins by a highest amount win wins are summed may win a group challenge. For
20 example, if more money is won by group 1 than group 2 players then group 1 may win the
   challenge. Or, as another example, if group 1 teams beat a spread against group 2 teams by a
   larger amount in sum, then group 1 may win a group challenge. It should be recognized that
   any manner of aggregating outcome elements may be used to determine an outcome of such
   a group challenge and these example aggregates are given as non-limiting examples only. A
25 gaming operator may monitor games and groups to determine such an aggregate outcome of
   a group challenge.
            In some embodiments, a group game may be a game that is played by all or some of
   the group members (e.g., group members that engage in group to group games) and/or other
   players. For example, in some embodiments, a third party may take a position on which
30 group will win a group challenge (e.g., place a wager on the aggregate outcome). A gaming
   operator may receive information about such a game, may find an opponent for such a game
                                                 21

   and/or book a wager on such a game, may monitor the group events and determine an
   outcome based on the group events.
            As another example, a buy-in to a member of a group to member of another group
   game may fund a group to group game. For example, if $10 is a buy in for each of a member
 5 of group 1 and a member of group 2 to play an individual game against one another, some
   portion of that total $20 buy in money may be used to fund a group to group game. The
   winning group may win a summed pool of such subgroup buy-in portions. For example $1
   of each buy in may go to a group pool. So if 100 members play, the group pool may be
   $100. A winning group may win that $100. The win money may be split among group
10 members, assigned to a group account, and/or in any other way be credited on to the benefit
   of the winning group even if individual members of the group lose. So, in some
   embodiments a player in a group may win money even if the player loses a game.
            In some embodiments, a group sponsor may earn the group win. For example, if a
   bar sponsors a group, an account maintained on behalf of the bar may be credited with the
15 win for the group. A gaming operator may track group sponsors through a data structure,
   may track group sponsor accounts, and may credit such accounts based on group gaming
   events. A group sponsor may use the money in whatever manner the sponsor agrees to with
   the group (e.g., taking as payment for sponsorship, buying free drinks for patrons, upgrading
   facilities, donating to charity, etc.). A gaming operator may facilitate voting by group
20 members to determine how to use such group winnings.
             In some embodiments, a group may elect a recipient for group game wins. For
   example, the group members may elect (e.g., by entering information into an interface) that
   a charity receives group game wins. The group members may indicate to a gaming operator
   that the charity should receive group game wins. The gaming operator may facilitate
25 payment of group game wins to the charity (e.g., crediting an account, mailing a check, etc.).
            Some embodiments may include establishing teams for one or more of the games.
   For example, in embodiments in which individual players in group 1 are matched against
   and then play respective games against individual players in group 2, the players in each
   game may pick a fantasy team for that game. Player A from group 1 may play against player
30 B from group 2 and each of player A and player B may pick a team through a user interface
                                                   22

   to establish their teams for a such a game. Various examples of picking teams are described
   herein and/or known in the art and may be used in various embodiments.
            Some embodiments may include placing a restriction and/or requirement on team
   selection based on a group membership. It should be recognized that various examples of
 5 those restrictions and/or requirements are given as non-limiting examples. Such restrictions
   and/or requirements may be combined in any manner. A gaming operator may impose such
   restrictors and/or requirements. A gaming operator may provide information identify such
   restrictions and/or requirements through an interface. Such interface information may be
   updated as actions related to restrictions and/or requirements are taken.
10          For example, in some embodiments, a group in sum must make some selection
   requirement. A group collectively may be required to use all players on a real sports team at
   least once. For example, if a group is affiliated with a particular football team, then that
   members of that group may be required to use every member of that football team at least
   one time when they collectedly form their teams for a set of games. An interface may
15 provide information to members of the group indicating the required players that must still
   be played. When a member of a group picks a player, an interface for another member of the
   group may be updated by a gaming operator to indicate that that player has been played. If
   all of the players are not played, a group may lose, a group may be hit with a penalty, group
   members may be notified that they must correct the error, and/or any action may be taken.
20 Although examples are given in terms of using a whole team, it should be recognized that
   any manner of group wide team selection may be used. For example, each player of a team
   may be required to be used at least some threshold number of times that is greater than one,
   members of a team may be required to be used collectively at least some number of times by
   each member may not be required to be used, and so on.
25          As another example of a restriction/requirement, some embodiments may prevent
   players in a group from choosing members from certain team(s) and/or require picking at
   least some members from certain team(s). For example, in some embodiments, each team
   from a member of group 1 may be required to include at least 3 members of team 1 that is
   affiliated with group 1. As another example, each team from a member of group 1 may be
30 prevented from including a member from team 2 that is affiliated with group 2 against
   whom group 1 is playing a game.
                                                   23

            It should be recognized that various examples of group gaming given with respect to
   figure 3 are non-limiting examples only. Such examples may be combined together in any
   manner. Other embodiments may include different, same, more, less, and so on functionality
   as desired.
 5
   Gameplay Examples
            Some embodiments may include play of one or more games. A gaming operator may
   take one or more actions to facilitate gameplay involving one or more contestant in a game.
   In some embodiments, such gameplay may include play of a fantasy game (e.g., fantasy
10 sports game) between two or more contestants (e.g., players, groups, members of rival
   groups, etc.). Figure 4 illustrates an example method that may be used to facilitate gameplay
   in some embodiments.
            As indicated at block 401 some embodiments may include receiving an indication of
   a first fantasy team for a game. The indication may be received from a computing device
15 (e.g., a device operated by a contestant, a client computing device a mobile computing
   device, staff computing device). In some embodiments, the first fantasy team may include a
   first plurality of members that each correspond to a respective player of a sport, as discussed
   above. Such a team may be received from a member of the first group discussed above in an
   embodiment that involves group gaming.
20          In some embodiments, the indication may include an indication of each of the
   members of the fantasy team. In some embodiments, the indication may include an
   indication of a position for one or more of the members of the fantasy team (e.g.,
   quarterback).    In some embodiments, an indication of a fantasy team may include an
   indication of an outcome of a draft. In some embodiments, an indication of a fantasy team
25 may include an indication of a selection of members of the fantasy team (e.g., by a
   participant of a fantasy sports game, by a casino as part of a selection of one or more casino
   teams). Various examples of forming a team are described above and it should be
   recognized that an indication of such forming may be received in any number of ways in
   some embodiments.
30          Some embodiments may include requirements and/or restrictions on team selection
   (e.g., uniqueness, based on group membership, based on other group members, etc.).
                                                   24

   Various examples of such requirements are given herein and/or known in the art. Some
   embodiments may include verifying that the team meets requirements and/or providing
   information about the requirements and/or retractions to a contestant.
            In some embodiments, at least two of the first plurality of members may correspond
 5 to a same first player of the sport. It should be recognized that in various embodiments, any
   number or none of the members may correspond to the same first player. The members may
   be assigned same or different positions from one another and/or the real player, in various
   embodiments. In one example, all members on a team may correspond to a same first
   player. In some embodiments, two or more members of a team may correspond to
10 respective players that play in a same position in the sport even if the sport only allows one
   player to play that position at one time. For example, in some embodiments, a fantasy team
   may include multiple members that correspond to players that play as quarterbacks.
            It should be recognized that some embodiments may include assigning members to a
   position and some embodiments may not include assigning members to a position. Such
15 assignment to a position may and/or may not be affected by non-unique members.          In some
   embodiments, non-unique members may not be assigned positions at all and may earn points
   based on actions of the player regardless of position played by the player. In some
   embodiments, non-unique members may be assigned positions and may earn points based on
   actions of the player that are relevant to each assigned position. As discussed above, some
20 embodiments may include non-player members of a fantasy team, such as a head coach
   and/or fans of a team.
            As indicated at block 403, some embodiments may include receiving an indication of
   a second fantasy team for the game. Such receiving may be substantially similar to the
   receiving of block 401. The second fantasy team may include a second plurality of members
25 that each correspond to a respective player of the sport. such a team may be received from a
   member of the second group discussed above in an embodiment that involves group gaming.
            In some embodiments, at least one of the second plurality of members corresponds to
   the same first player of the sport discussed above. In some embodiments, for example, the
   first fantasy team includes one or more of the first player and the second fantasy team
30 includes one or more of the first player. A combined number of times the first player is
   included in any number of times may not be limited in some embodiments. A combined
                                                   25

   number of times the first player is included in any number of times may be limited in some
   embodiments. In some embodiments, a number of members of a first team and a second
   team that are common may be limited (e.g., a second team may be rejected or otherwise not
   allowed to be selected if the number of common members exceeds a threshold number).
 5         Although some fantasy games may include two or more teams, others may include
   only a single team and block 403 is given as a non-limiting example of games in which two
   or more teams are part of a game. For example, members of each group may play an over
   under game based on whether a team chosen by each member scores over or under some
   score threshold.
10         In some embodiments, any number of players may select teams for any number of
   games. Two are shown in blocks for simplicity, but it should be understood that any number
   may be used. Some examples are given in terms of four or two or other numbers as non
   limiting examples only. In a four person example, two more players may choose respective
   teams in similar fashion to the other teams being chosen. These third and fourth teams may
15 have similar properties to the first and second team. These third and fourth teams may be
   from members of the first and second group in a group gaming embodiments (e.g., in a game
   involving multiple players from each group, in different games played between members of
   the groups). These third and fourth teams may be from members of other groups in a group
   gaming environment with more than two groups (e.g., between a different set of rival
20 groups, in a game involving four rival groups). In various embodiments, such four teams
   may play in a single game, a tournament, and/or different games (e.g., one vs two, three vs
   four).
           As indicated at block 405, some embodiments may include receiving an indication of
   information related to real events in which members of the first and second team
25 participated. Such information may describe happenings in one or more sports. For
   example, statistics may relate to past performance of one or more players of a sport. For
   example, a statistic may include a number of completed passes, a number of yards run last
   game, a number of games played in a career, a current earn run average, a percentage of free
   throws made, and/or any desired information. Such an indication may be received from an
30 event source (e.g., from a historical database of an event source). It should be recognized
   that any information regarding one or more members of one or more teams may be received
                                                  26

   in various embodiments. Such information may include information about prior games. It
   should be recognized again that any number of teams may be relevant to such an action and
   that two teams is given as a non-limiting example only.
           As indicated at block 407, some embodiments may include determining, based on
 5 the respective information, the first fantasy team, and the second fantasy team, a
   characteristic (e.g., a payout ratio, a spread, other odds, a minimum risked amount, a
   maximum risked amount, and so on) for a game involving the first fantasy team and/or the
   second fantasy team (e.g., in games involving two or more teams, may be in response to
   receiving other teams in embodiments with other teams).
10         A spread may include an amount of points that one team must win against another
   team to be considered a win by the one team. A spread may be determined such that a team
   with players that have better statistics may have to win by at least some number of points to
   be considered a winning team.
            Some embodiments may include determining characteristics related to a game and/or
15 (possible or actual) member of a fantasy team. For example, some embodiments may
   include determining an expected number of points that a team and/or member may earn in a
   game. For example, a fantasy team selected by a player and/or casino may include a number
   of members. A determination of a number of points that each team and/or member may earn
   in a fantasy game may be determined in some embodiments. In some embodiments, a
20 determination based on such expectation may be used to determine odds, moneyline, payout
   ratio, spread, and/or other characteristic of a game.
           In some embodiments, a skew may intentionally be introduced to such a
   determination of a characteristic. Such a skew for example may include intentionally
   lowering an expected points earned by a member of a fantasy team and/or fantasy team in
25 whole than would be expected from statistics. Such a skew may encourage players of a
   game to select members of the team that are higher performing than they would normally
   pick (e.g., in cases in which player's prefer to have an underdog team).
           A determination of an expected number of points for a member and/or team may
   include determining a number of points that the member is expected to earn based on
30 historic performance of the player. The data may include information indicative of each
   participant's ability to contribute to the accomplishment in prior events to the plurality of
                                                    27

   events. The historic performance may include performance from all prior games, recent
   prior game, prior games against an opponent (e.g., team, coach, player) that the member will
   be playing an upcoming real game that may be used as a basis for determining an outcome
   of a fantasy game, history of home and/or away games, and so on. Various weightings may
 5 be given to historic information to make such a determination. For example, recent games
   may be given more weight than non-recent games in determining an expected points. If an
   upcoming game is an away game, away games may be given more weight than home games.
   Games against same opponents may be given more weight than games against different
   opponents. It should be recognized that any combination of weights and information may be
10 used in determining an expected number of points for a particular member as desired and
   that examples given are non-limiting. Such information may be displayed through one or
   more interfaces in some embodiments.
           In one particular non-limiting example, player X may have an expected number of
   points to be earned in an upcoming game. In the past two seasons, player X may have earned
15 an average of 70 points each game. In the current season, the player may have earned 60
   points for two of the three games. One of the three games may have been against team A and
   member may have earned 80 points. Such information may be received in some
   embodiments. A determination of an expected points may be made by an algorithm that
   takes such information into account. For example, an expected number of points may be
20 determined such that expected points are equal to 70 times A (e.g., .33) + 70 times B (e.g.,
   .33 ) + 60 times C (e.g., .1 )+ 60 times C (e.g., .1 )+ 80 times D (e.g., .13). In this example
   embodiment such an expected number of points may equal 68.6. In some embodiments,
   such an expectation may be skewed down intentionally (e.g., by a set percentage, by a
   number of points, if it is great than a threshold, etc.) to, for example 65 points.
25         In some embodiments, a sum of points of each member of a team may be used to
   determine an expected number of points for a team. For example, a sum of expected points
   to be earned by members of a team picked by a first player may be used to determine an
   expected number of points that the first player's team will earn in the game. As another
   example, a sum of expected points for each member of a player team may be used to
30 determine an expected number of points for a player team to earn in a game.
                                                   28

            Some embodiments may include determining a characteristic for a game based on
   such characteristics of a team. For example, a characteristic of a game may be determined
   based on expected points of one or more teams and/or one or more members. For example, a
   spread may be determined for a game involving two teams based on a comparison of
 5 expected pointed for each of the teams. For example, as a non-limiting example, if a first
   team has an expected number of points of 100 and a second team has an expected number of
   points of 110.5, a spread may be 10.5 points. Such a spread may include an amount of points
   that a second team may be required to win by in order for a game on the second team to be a
   winning game. Such information may be presented to a user through an interface (e.g., an
10 interface for selecting a team, an interface for making a game, and so on). In some
   embodiments, a house edge may be added to one or more sides or teams as desired.
           In some embodiments, such an expected points may be used to determine an odds
   and/or payout ratio (e.g., in combination with an accomplishment). For example, an odds
   that are worse for the player may be determined if the accomplishment is to achieve points
15 that are less than the expected points and may be better for the player if the accomplishment
   is to achieve points that are greater than the expected points.
            Some embodiments may include determining information about a team as the team
   and/or members thereof as a team is selected. For example, an interface may display a
   current expected point total for a team as the team is being select, an amount that each
20 player will add to the team expected point total in a selection interface, and/or other
   information to aid in the selection of a team. Such information may be used, for example to
   adjust a team, to verify a game, and so on. Accordingly, it should be understood that
   orderings of actions are given in a non-limiting manner and that various information may be
   determined and displayed in order to aid in the formation of a team for one or more players
25 of game that may be used to determine a characteristic of the game.
           It should be recognized that various examples of characteristic determination are
   given as non-limiting examples only. Other embodiments may include any desired
   methodology. For example, in some embodiments, actual expected events of a real game
   may be determined (e.g., expected passing yards, expected touchdowns), and based on such
30 expected events, an expected score may be determined. As another example, some
   embodiments may include adjusting a characteristic based on other games (e.g., if many
                                                   29

   players the thing a particular team will win, the team may be given an increase in expected
   points; if a player that has a winning record thinks that a team will win, the team may have
   an adjustment made to the expected points, and so on). In still other embodiments no such
   characteristic may be determined at all.
 5         It should be recognized that while points earned in a fantasy game are given as
   examples of information that may be used to determine characteristics, that any desired
   characteristic may be determined based on any element of an event (e.g. length of game,
   number of hits, etc.) that may or may not be translated into points through game rules.
           While examples of block 405 are given in terms of a game of two players, it should
10 be recognized that such an action may apply to a game of any number of players. For
   example, a game of four players may be played and such an action may apply to said game.
   Multiple games of two played may be played and this action may apply to each said game.
           For example, in a four player game, a number of expected points that is a lowest
   expect points from among the expected points of each of the four teams may be determined.
15 Such a minimum may be set as a zero point for a four player game. Each team of the four
   teams that has an expected point value higher than that minimum expected point value may
   be assigned a negative starting value for an amount that an expected point value of that team
   exceeds the minimum. Accordingly, each team may be penalized for having a higher
   expected point amount so that the teams compete in a fairer manner. As another example, A
20 highest (or any value) of the expected performance values may be set as a zero point. Other
   teams may have some starting bonus added to their score in relation to the difference
   between their score and the highest score to balance out the differences in expected scores.
   Some embodiments may have some added bonus and some subtracted penalty if a score that
   is neither the highest nor the lowest is selected as a zero point.
25          Some embodiments may take one or more actions to form or finalize a game. For
   example, players may join a league and when a league and/or otherwise be matched together
   into a game. In response, the players may be charged a fee (e.g., a wager amount, a contest
   entry fee, an amount of money risked, etc.). When a game has a number of players, the game
   may be formed. If insufficient players join, the game may be canceled and players may be
30 returned their fee. In some embodiments the fee may be charged at a later time such as when
   sufficient players join, when a game is otherwise finalized such as after teams are picked,
                                                   30

   when a spread is set, etc. In some embodiments, a game may be finalized when teams are set
   and/or a characteristic is established. Forming and/or finalizing a game may include
   notifying one or more players, adjusting account balances, making entry into a data structure
   that is used to track a game, and/or any desired actions. In some embodiments, various game
 5 related actions may be performed, such as debiting and/or crediting accounts, obtaining
   signed contracts, collecting chips or money, and so on.
            As indicated at block 407, some embodiments may include determining an outcome
   of the one or more games. The outcome of the game may be determined based on
   happenings of one or more events. For example, events related to members in the team(s)
10 may be used to determine points for each team, as described above. A comparison of the
   points may be used to determine the outcome. In some embodiments, determining the
   outcome may include determining the outcome based on events in one or more games
   involving the members on one or more fantasy team. Some embodiments may include
   receiving an indication of the performance of the members (e.g., from an event source).
15          As discussed above, some embodiments may use the outcomes of one or more games
   as input to one or more other games. For example, a group game may be based on outcomes
   of individual games between rival group members. Accordingly, some embodiments may
   include determining an outcome of a group game based on the outcome of the one or more
   games.
20          Some embodiments may include transmitting an indication of a payout amount based
   on the outcome of the one or more games and/or group game. Such a payout amount may be
   determined based on the outcome and/or a characteristic of a game (e.g., payout ratio Such
   an indication may be made to a client. In some embodiments, such an indication may
   include an indication that a payment was made. In some embodiments, such an indication
25 may be displayed on a display. In some embodiments, such an indication may include an
   indication to a staff member to pay an amount. In some embodiments, such an indication
   may include an indication that an amount should be transferred from one account to another
   account.
            It should be recognized that the method of figure 4 is given as a non-limiting
30 example only. Other embodiments may include additional, alternative, differently ordered,
   more, fewer, different, and/or same actions as desired.
                                                  31

   Tournament Examples
           In some embodiments, one or more game may be part of a tournament and/or may be
   based on events in a tournament. For example, in some embodiments, a fantasy game may
 5 be based on events in a real life tournament (e.g., games in a playoff series, games in a NFL
   playoffs, etc.).
           In some embodiments, teams in a tournament may be kicked out of the tournament if
   they lose and teams in the tournament may move on to a next level of a tournament if they
   win. Accordingly, if a player in the game establishes a fantasy team for a game based on the
10 tournament, and one or more of the real players in the tournament are on a team that loses a
   game in the tournament, that one or more players may no longer be eligible to earn points in
   the fantasy game (e.g., because he or she will no longer play in real games). Different
   embodiments may approach this real player elimination in various manners.
           For example, in some embodiments, members of a team that are eliminated from a
15 tournament in such a manner may be replaced by a player of the game. A player may be
   notified of eliminated members and asked to pick replacement members from a set of
   members that remain active in the tournament. In some embodiments, a restriction may be
   placed on such replacement selection. For example, a replacement player may be required to
   be of a lower than and/or equal to expected point total as a replaced player. This restriction
20 would prevent a player from receiving an improved fantasy team as the tournament
   progresses. The game may continue with the replacement members earning points in the
   game rather than the replaced players from that point forward.
           As another example, in some embodiments members of a team that are eliminated
   from a tournament in such a manner may not be replaced. A player in the game may rather
25 continue the game having only a diminished team earning points from an elimination
   forward. Such a rule may add an element of strategy to initial player selection by making
   players include likelihood of continued play in the tournament into their player selection
   calculations.
           Accordingly, players may play against one another with a changing team over time
30 as real players drop out and/or are added back in as an underlying tournament progresses.
                                                 32

           As another example of a game, a game may itself be part of a tournament of games
   in which winners may move on to a higher level of a tournament and losers may be kicked
   out of a tournament. In some embodiments, the game may end but the game may be part of
   tournament so the tournament may move on to a next round in the tournament. For example,
 5 a game may involve player 1 vs player 2 and a second game may involve player 3 vs player
   4. Players 1 and 3 may win these games. A next round of the tournament may involve a
   game between player 1 an player 3 in response to the outcome of the first round.
           In some embodiments, such a tournament may be played between two groups. For
   example, an initial matchup in the tournament may be players from group 1 vs players from
10 group 2. If the tournament reaches a point where all remaining players are from a single
   group, the group may be a group winner of the tournament. For example, if players 1 and 3
   are of a same group, that group may win the tournament and some may win some group
   prize. The play of players in the group may continue to see who in the group wins the
   overall tournament in some embodiments.
15         The underlying event(s) on which the tournament is based may include an
   elimination of real players, and there may or may not be a replenishment phase as discussed
   above.
           Accordingly, play in a first round of a tournament between player 1 vs player 2 and
   player 3 vs player 4 may be with a set of teams. Members of the teams may drop out of play
20 (e.g., during the round and/or after the round). Then in the next round of the tournament
   (and/or during a single round if the players drop out during the round in some
   embodiments), player teams may have been locked. If there are no replacements, those
   locked teams may have a diminished set of players. Accordingly, player 1 and player 3 may
   be matched in a game with teams of unequal size. In some embodiments, any characteristic
25 determination may be based on the team with the full size (e.g., such as determining
   expected points for a team at the start of a tournament and using that number even as players
   are eliminated). If there is a replacement, then the players may add new members to their
   teams.
           Determination of score expectation (and/or any other characteristic) in a later round
30 of a tournament may take any form. For example, such determination may be based on a full
   team at a beginning of a tournament (e.g., a par value, spread for a later round of a
                                                   33

   tournament may be determined based on players in teams at a start of a tournament) and/or a
   possibly smaller or different set of players that will be used for the round (e.g., determine
   par and/or spread based on a current set of players). For example, a spread in round 1 of a
   fantasy tournament that is based on events in a real tournament may be determined based on
 5 a difference in expected points of two teams that are put against one another in the first
   round of the tournament. A first team may win and move on to a second round of the
   tournament. Some players from the first team may have been eliminated from the real
   tournament that the fantasy tournament tracks. In round 2 of the tournament a spread may be
   determined based on an original point expectation of the first team even though players have
10 been eliminated.
           A tournament may progress through any number of rounds until an end is reached. A
   game based on a tournament may be based on an entire tournament and/or a portion of a
   tournament.
           It should be recognized that while various embodiments are given in terms of
15 football, other embodiments are not limited to football. Some embodiments may include
   other sports and/or other events as desired and may include different rules for different
   events as desired. For example different sports may include different numbers of players,
   different game characteristics, and so on. It should be recognized that fantasy sports
   tournaments are also given as non-limiting examples and that other examples may include
20 any form a tournament involving any form of game (e.g., poker tournament).
   Surrender Examples
           Some embodiments may include an ability to end a game earlier than is normally
   scheduled. For example, a game may include a fantasy sports game that is based on real
25 sport events happening over a weekend. Players in the fantasy sports game may desire to
   end the game before all of the events are over.
           Some embodiments may include a first player in a fantasy sports game indicating to
   a gaming operator that they desire to offer another player in the fantasy sports game an
   option to end the game early. For example, a first player may offer a second player an
30 amount of money to end the game now. The offered amount of money may be less than an
   amount of money that the player would be awarded if the player wins the game.
                                                   34

           A gaming operator may present the offered player with information about the offer to
   end the game early (e.g., information indicated the offered amount of money, information
   indicating a current state of the game, etc.).
           The offered player may respond to such an offer through a user interface of a
 5 computing device. For example, the offered player may accept, reject, and/or ignore the
   offer. If the player rejects and/or ignores the offer, the game may continue as if the offer was
   not made. If the player accepts the offer, the offered player may be awarded the amount of
   money offered and the game may end. Such an offer and ending of a game may be referred
   to as a buyout.
10          An offer and/or buy-out may operate in many different manners. For example, some
   embodiments include two players that each pay a buy-in amount to play the game (e.g.,
   $10). A gaming operator may take a portion of the buy-in amounts as a payment for playing
   the game (e.g., $2 total leaving $18). A remainder may be a prize pool for winning the
   game (e.g., $18). An offer to end the game may identify an amount of the prize pool that the
15 offered player will receive if he or she accepts the offer (e.g., a player may offer another
   player 5$ of the $18 to end the game). An offered amount may be half a prize pool, more
   than half a prize pool, and/or less than half a prize pool. Some embodiments may restrict a
   player to making some types of offers (e.g., restrict to offering more than half the prize pool
   thereby admitting a likely loss). In another embodiment, an amount offered may be an
20 amount more than a midpoint of the prize pool (e.g., a 5$ offer may indicate that the offered
   party would receive $5 more than 50% of the prize pool or $14). A offering party may
   receive whatever amount is left in the prize pool after the offered party is awarded the
   offered amount. A gaming operator may monitor offers and acceptances and adjust accounts
   form the prize pool accordingly.
25          Some embodiments may include a negotiation between players to resolve a surrender
   or buyout option. For example, a first player may offer a second player a buyout. The second
   player may respond with a counteroffer through a gaming operator interface. A back and
   forth counter offering process may proceed with any number of rounds as a game
   progresses. Offers may change to reflect changing circumstances of a game. In some
30 embodiments, each player may enter an amount that they would accept as a buyout and/or
   offer as a buyout as the game progresses. Such amounts may or may not be show to
                                                    35

   opposing players. In some embodiments, if the amounts ever match and/or an agreement is
   ever reached, a game may end with the matched buyout occurring. In some embodiments, a
   player may cancel and/or alter an offer that is made before it is accepted and/or after some
   amount of time after it is made.
 5          Such offering may be available in any form of game involving any number of
   players. For example, group games may involve offers between groups, tournament game
   may involve offers at a level of a tournament (e.g., a winner in a round may be a player that
   takes more than half of a prize pool) and/or for a tournament as a whole (e.g., in a final
   round of a tournament), and so on.
10
   Customizable Games Examples
            In some embodiments, one or more players may have influence on how a winner of a
   game is determined. A player, for example, may establish rules for a game and/or determine
   the inputs into a game that are used to determine a score for the game. In a fantasy sports
15 game, for example, statistics related to and/or happenings in real sports may affect the score
   of the fantasy game. The specific statistics and/or happenings that count for points in the
   fantasy game may be chosen by one or more players in the game.
            For example, in some embodiments, a player may be shown a list of possible
   statistics and/or happenings that may be included in a game. The user may select from the
20 list a set that should be included to determine scores in the game. A gaming operator may
   use the selection to determine scores in the game.
            In some embodiments, a minimum number of statistics and/or happenings may be
   required to be selected (e.g., 5). In some embodiments, no more than some maximum may
   be allowed to be selected (e.g., 7). In some embodiments, more than one user may select
25 such statistics and/or happenings (e.g., a round robin selection, each player may select some
   number, etc.). In some embodiments a single player may select such statistics and/or
   happenings (e.g., a first player to join a game). In some embodiments, groups may select
   such events/happenings (e.g., in a round robin fashion) and such group selections may apply
   to all games played between groups.
30          Some examples, statistics and/or happenings may include 3 point shooting
   percentage, running yards, passing yards, QB completion percentage, batter's on-base
                                                   36

   percentage, conventional events used in conventional fantasy games, any statistic and/or
   happening that may occur in a real event, and so on.
           In some embodiments, a player may define how scores within a statistic and/or
   happening are assigned scores. In some embodiment, a gaming operator may determine how
 5 such statistics and/or happenings are translated into scores. For example, the scoring
   breakdown for a category such as QB completion percentage could be as follows:
            90% & Above         25 Points
             80% - 89%          20 Points
             70% - 79%           15 Points
             60% - 69%           10 Points
             50% - 59%            5 Points
             40% - 49%             1 Point
             30% - 39%            -1 Point
             Below 30%           -5 Points
   It should be recognized that examples of statistics and/or happenings are given as non
   limiting examples only. It should be recognized that example scorings are given as non
10 limiting examples only. It should be recognized that examples of picking statistics and/or
   happenings are given as on-limiting examples only.
   Raising Examples
           Some embodiments may include one or more players in a game increasing the stakes
15 of the game. For example, in a fantasy sports game, one user may offer to increase the stakes
   of the game to another user. The other user may accept, reject, and/or offer to differently
   increase the stakes in response.
           As an example, in some embodiments, two users may be placed in a fantasy sports
   head to head game.       Either of the two players in the game may be able to offer the other
20 play a doubling of the stakes of the game. A gaming operator may receive such an offer and
   present it to the other player in the game in response.
           In some embodiments, if a receiving player does not accept a doubling or other
   raising offer, the receiving party may lose the game. In other embodiments, if not accepted,
   the game may go forward at an original stakes. In some embodiments, the raising offer may
                                                   37

   only be made before a game starts. In some embodiments, the raising offer may be made at
   any time and/or at a time before some percentage of underlying events have occurred.
            In some embodiments, if a receiving party accepts a raise, both players may then
   place an additional amount of money into a prize pool to account for the raise. For example,
 5 if an initial buy-in to a game is $10 each, then a doubling may cause the buy in to increase to
   $20 each. In some embodiments 10% of the increase and/or some other portion of the
   increase may be taken by a gaming operator as a charge for playing the game.
            In some embodiments both users may have the ability to offer a raise (e.g., a
   doubling). For example, a first or second player to join the game may have the option of
10 offering a raise. In some embodiments, either player may have the option of making such an
   offer.
   In some embodiments, a raise offer may be made more than one time in a game. For
   example, after a first player offers a raise to a second player and the second player accepts,
   the stake may be doubled. The second player may have the option to offer an additional raise
15 to the first player (e.g., another doubling). The first player may no longer have the raise
   option. The second raise may operate similar to the first raise (e.g., may be required to be
   accepted or else forfeit the game). In some embodiments with more than two raisings being
   allowed, this option may bounce back and forth.
            In some embodiments, there may be a limit on the number of times this raising may
20 occur (e.g., once by each player, ten times total). Such limiting may prevent a rich player
   from crowding out other players by continuously offering raises. In some embodiments, a
   game that allows such an option may be identified separately from games that do not allow
   such an option so that users are aware of the game type they are entering.
25 Par Game Example
            Some embodiments may include a game in which players seek to reach some par
   level. Achievement of par may result in the player that reaches par being a winner.
   Accordingly, in some embodiments multiple players may be winners. Winners may split a
   prize pool. In some embodiments, a secondary game may determine winners from among a
30 set of winners. For example, a highest scoring player may win, a first to achieve par may
   win, and/or any other secondary characteristic may be used to determine a winner from a set
                                                    38

   of winners. In some embodiments there may be no winners if no one achieves par. In some
   embodiments, a secondary characteristic may be used to determine a winner if no one
   achieves par (e.g., highest scoring player, etc.).
            Some embodiments may include determining a par value for a game. Such a par
 5 value may be based upon teams in the game. The game may include a fantasy sports game
   between any number of players. A par value may be determined based on expected scores to
   be earned by the teams. For example, the par value may be equal to the average of expected
   points, the lowest of the expected points, a highest of the expected points, and so on. In
   some embodiments, teams may start with some points based on expected points and/or par.
10 For example, par may be set to a lowest expected point value and each team may be
   assigned some number of negative points to start based on the difference between the par
   value and the expected points of the team. This offsetting value (which may be positive in
   some embodiments) may be referred to as a handicap.
            Some embodiments may include determining which teams meet a par value. For
15 example, some embodiments may include determining every team from a group of teams
   involved in a game that meet the par value. Those teams may be winning teams and may
   split a prize pool. As another example, some embodiments may include determining which
   teams meet a par value first and that team may be a winning team. Determining which teams
   meet a par value may include determining scores of the teams for real events and comparing
20 that score to the par value. Some embodiments may include adding or subtracting a handicap
   value to such a comparison.
   Multiple Access Points Examples
            Some embodiments may include offering a gaming service through a plurality of
25 service providers. A gaming service may operate as a white labeled service that appears to
   be directly offered through the service providers but is in realty offered by the gaming
   provider. Such a service by a gaming provider may allow its services to be offered
   seamlessly as part of a suite of services offered by a service provider. Customers may trust
   the service provider and/or have accounts with the service provider and may be able to user
30 the gaming service in an easier and/or a more trusted environment through such a service
   provider rather than directly with the gaming operator.
                                                   39

            In some embodiments, a customer may establish an account with a service provider.
   A service provider may include a casino, a website, a poker site, a slot machine provider, a
   sports book, and/or any provider of any services whether they are internet based, physical
   based, gaming and/or otherwise. Establishing an account may include any manner of
 5 identifying a user to a service, such as method that may be well known in the art.
   Establishing an account may include establishing some amount of money in a monetary
   account and establishing some identity information such as a login.
            Some embodiments may not include such an account. For example, in some
   embodiments, an over the counter option may be facilitated to allow play of games without
10 an account and/or player identification. Such an over the counter option may allow for a user
   to play games over the counter and/or in a physical environment without the use for an
   account (e.g., by submitting gaming information to a agent of a service provider).
            In some embodiments, a gaming operator may maintain an account for a user. For
   example, a single sign in may be used across accounts for a gaming operator and service
15 provider so that a sign into one is a sign into another. A sign in to a service operator may act
   as a signing into a gaming operator even if the user does not realize that there is multiple
   signing ins occurring. A service operator may transmit information to a gaming operator to
   facilitate signing in to the gaming operator and/or to track player actions so that players
   taking gaming actions may be tracked.
20          Some embodiments may include providing a user with access to one or more
   services by a service provider. The one or more services may include any desired gaming
   and/or non-gaming service (e.g., such as those provided through a cloud or cloud service
   providers that are accessible through a portal into the cloud). For example, a casino may
   offer a variety of commercial options to a user that may include some gaming options. One
25 of those options may include services provided by a gaming operator. Such services may be
   offered through an interface of a device (e.g., a computing device, a cell phone, a kiosk,
   etc.).
            In some embodiments, such service may be offered through device and/or personnel
   of a casino or other service provider. For example, in a system that does not include an
30 account and/or otherwise offers over the counter gaming options, an agent and/or device of a
   service provider may offer an interface to such gaming services and/or other services. For
                                                   40

   example, an agent at a counter may accept wagers on games and transmit such information
   to a gaming operator on behalf of a customer that desires to play the games.
            In some embodiments, a user may access the services through a service provider
   portal (e.g., API, user interface, website, kiosk). A service provider may receive information
 5 that is usable to play games with the gaming operator and may forward the information to
   the gaming operator. The information may be marked in some manner to identify a user
   and/or gaming session. The gaming operator may respond with information identifying
   gaming actions and/or outcomes. Such information may be forwarded to the user.
   Accordingly, the service provider may act as an access point to the gaming operator. In an
10 over the counter example, a kiosk and/or agent of a service provider may receive gaming
   actions such as wagers in a game and may enter that information to the gaming provider.
   Accordingly the service provider may act as an agent or entry point for the gaming operator.
   Users may not know that the gaming operator is involved in the game play but rather may
   assume that the service provider offers the gaming services.
15          A gaming operator may receive various information and facilitate gaming using the
   information. The received information may be used to play games as discussed elsewhere
   herein. Outcome information may be sent to the service operator for display to the users.
   Accordingly, processing and play of games may be done through the gaming operator but
   access and/or presentation may be done through the service provider. It should be
20 recognized that various examples of functionality breakdown are given as non-limiting
   examples only.
            A service provider may include one or more computing devices that provide
   functionality for the service provider. For example, such computing devices may provide
   account based functions, commercial transaction functions, display functions, sign in
25 functions and so on. A gaming operator may include one or more computing devices that
   may provide gaming operator functions. A gaming operator and service provider devices
   may interact in order to provide gaming services to a user (e.g., through a user computing
   device).
            In various options, funding may be performed in a manner that facilities gaming as
30 desired by a gaming operator and/or service provider. For example, in some embodiments,
   an account may be maintained by a gaming operator and the user may have to somehow log
                                                   41

   in to that account (e.g. in addition to the account of the service provider). The money in the
   account may be limited to use with the gaming operator. In another example, an account
   may be maintained by the service provider and singing in to the account by the service
   provider may act as a singing in to the gaming operator as well. A service provider may
 5 transfer money to the gaming operator for use in gaming with the gaming operator by the
   player. Accordingly, a monetary account with the service provider may be used at the
   gaming operator and/or for any services offered by the service provider.
           Various communications may be made between the gaming operator and the service
   provider and/or the customers to facilitate gaming. A service provider may identify
10 customers in any manner so that they may be communicated back to the service provider
   and properly identify a user and/or game. For example, each user may have an ID number
   and that ID number may be communicated back and forth to indicate gaming actions,
   account transaction, payments, team selections, and so on that relate to the user. Similarly, a
   ID may be assigned to a game by a gaming operator that may be communicated back and
15 forth to indicate information is related to the game. A service provider may be responsible
   for presentation and obtainment of information. A gaming operator may be responsible for
   calculation of games and outcomes.
           In some embodiments, in an over the counter option, a player may not be identified,
   but rather a game may be identified. For example, a player may not have an account at all,
20 but rather may pay to be part of game through a counter and/or kiosk. A ticket may track
   that specific game and may be used to redeem any winnings. A ticket may be printed with a
   game ID that may be used by a gaming operator and/or service provider to take game
   actions and/or obtain information about an outcome of the game. A payment may be made
   from the gaming operator and/or service provider based on an outcome of the game by
25 looking up the outcome by referring the game ID.
           A service provider may take a cut of the amount of money input into the gaming
   operator through an over the counter and/or white label method. Some embodiments may
   include determine an allocation of such a cut to the service provider and/or determining a
   similar cut to a gaming operator. For example, 50% of a fee that is charged by the gaming
30 operator may be shared with the service provider for providing the customers to the gaming
   operator.
                                                   42

           Customers from various services providers may interact through the gaming
   operator. Customers with different access methods may interact through the gaming
   operator. Customers that are direct customers of the gaming operator may direct with such
   indirect customers of the gaming operator. Players from different sources may interact to
 5 play games against one another. Accordingly, by offering such white labeled and/or over the
   counter gaming options a larger group of players may interact with one another. Different
   fees may be charged and/or shared depending on a source of a player to a game.
           For example, players at different casinos may play games over the counter against
   one another. The players may not know that they are playing against such other players and
10 may think that they are playing games at the casino with other casino patrons. They may not
   care who they are playing against because the service provider and/or gaming provider may
   be trusted to properly resolve all games according to the standard rules regardless of player
   source. As another example, a player may play over the counter against a player with an
   account. Again the players may not care about how their opponents access a gaming service
15 because the results may be the same from their point of view. Allowing such variety of
   access methods and connections to a gaming operator may increase a player base of a
   gaming operator thereby enhancing play options and experience available through a
   particular gaming operator.
           It should be recognized that while some example access methods and communication
20 between access methods are described, that such methods are given as non-limiting
   examples only. Other embodiments may include any methods or structure to facilitate
   interoperability between service providers and gaming operators.
           It should be recognized that while example games, systems, and methods are
25 described, that such examples are given as non-limiting examples only. Other embodiments
   may include any desired combination of elements described herein and/or other elements as
   desired.
           The following sections provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
                                                  43

           II. Terms
           The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of matter,
   unless expressly specified otherwise.
           The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
 5 expressly specified otherwise.
           Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently includes
   one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have an
   inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term.
   Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient
10 antecedent basis.
           The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in this
   application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
           The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
   "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain
15 embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or more
   (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
           The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention, unless
   expressly specified otherwise.
20         A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not imply
   that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an
   embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
           The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but not
25 necessarily limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the
   sentence "the portfolio includes a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio
   includes the red widget and the blue widget, but may include something else.
           The term "consisting of' and variations thereof means "including and limited to",
   unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the portfolio consists
30 of a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red widget and the blue
   widget, but does not include anything else.
                                                  44

            The term "compose" and variations thereof means "to make up the constituent parts
   of, component of or member of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example,
   the sentence "the red widget and the blue widget compose a portfolio" means the portfolio
   includes the red widget and the blue widget.
 5          The term "exclusively compose" and variations thereof means "to make up
   exclusively the constituent parts of, to be the only components of or to be the only members
   of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget
   and the blue widget exclusively compose a portfolio" means the portfolio consists of the red
   widget and the blue widget, and nothing else.
10          The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
            The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
            The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything which may
   be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
15          The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things (such as
   an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those things, unless
   expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and a
   wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget
   and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least
20 one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the
   plurality of things.
            Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
   indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated
   by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical
25 term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and
   therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
            The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
   otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on" and "based
   at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at least in part
30 on".
                                                    45

           The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. For example, the term "represents" does not mean "represents only", unless
   expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a credit card
   number" describes both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data
 5 represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else".
           The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that
   express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is previously
   and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the clause or other
   words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the
10 claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
           The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the term
   or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
   instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that "instructions"
   are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains
15 that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet.
   However, both "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely examples of "data", and
   other things besides "instructions" and "a data structure" can be "data".
           The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two or
   more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own
20 characteristic, and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For
   example, the phrase "each of two machines has a respective function" means that the first
   such machine has a function and the second such machine has a function as well. The
   function of the first machine may or may not be the same as the function of the second
   machine.
25         The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase it
   explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over the
   Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer sends
   over the Internet.
           Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within the
30 range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include whole
                                                    46

   numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and non-whole numbers (e.g.,, 1.1, 1.2,
   1.9).
           Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an explicit
   statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term / phrase
 5 does not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a different meaning. For
   example, where a statement renders the meaning of "including" to be synonymous with
   "including but not limited to", the mere usage of the phrase "including but not limited to"
   does not mean that the term "including" means something other than "including but not
   limited to".
10         III.    Determining
           The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a price,
   determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in an
   extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions and
   therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing, deriving,
15 investigating, looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure),
   ascertaining and the like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving
   information), accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining"
   can include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
           The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and therefore
20 "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the like.
           The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
   performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply
   that an algorithm or process is used.
           The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used. For
25 example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
           IV.     Forms of Sentences
           Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than
   one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as well as
   more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim, the
30 second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this
   does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this does not imply
                                                    47

   that the second claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one
   widget and more than one widget).
           When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as an
   adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified otherwise)
 5 merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular feature from
   another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example, a "first
   widget" may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the
   mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not
   indicate any other relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any
10 other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal
   numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate that either
   widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not indicate that either
   widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either
   widget ranks above or below any other, as in importance or quality. In addition, the mere
15 usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the
   ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second"
   before the term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
           When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more than one
   device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the
20 single device / article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as
   being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device / article
   (whether or not they cooperate).
            Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described herein
   (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively be used in place
25 of the more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of
   computer-based devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device.
   Accordingly, the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one
   device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device / article.
           The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may be
30 alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not
   explicitly described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other embodiments need
                                                   48

   not include the described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices
   which would, in those other embodiments, have such functionality / features.
            V.      Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
            Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
 5 application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as
   limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s), is to be used in interpreting
   the meaning of any claim or is to be used in limiting the scope of any claim.. An Abstract
   has been included in this application merely because an Abstract is required under 37 C.F.R.
    1.72(b).
10          The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the present
   application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any
   way.
            Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are presented
   for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not intended to
15 be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely applicable to
   numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in
   the art will recognize that the disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with various
   modifications and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical
   modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described
20 with reference to one or more particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be
   understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular
   embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly
   specified otherwise.
            Though an embodiment may be disclosed as including several features, other
25 embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all such features. Thus, for example,
   a claim may be directed to less than the entire set of features in a disclosed embodiment, and
   such claim would not include features beyond those features that the claim expressly recites.
            No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present
   application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention claimed
30 herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is either
   expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.
                                                     49

            The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and possible uses of
   the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
            The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
   invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s)
 5 which must be present in all embodiments.
            All disclosed embodiment are not necessarily covered by the claims (even including
   all pending, amended, issued and canceled claims). In addition, an embodiment may be (but
   need not necessarily be) covered by several claims. Accordingly, where a claim (regardless
   of whether pending, amended, issued or canceled) is directed to a particular embodiment,
10 such is not evidence that the scope of other claims do not also cover that embodiment.
            Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
   continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
   contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may
   actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
15 communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other
   machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in
   communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more
   intermediaries.
            A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply
20 that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the contrary, a variety of
   optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of
   the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no component / feature is
   essential or required.
            Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a
25 particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In
   other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does
   not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of
   processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further, some steps
   may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non
30 simultaneously (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the
   illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated
                                                    50

   process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
   illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not imply
   that the illustrated process is preferred.
            Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does not
 5 imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
   embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that
   omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is
   essential or required.
            Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other products or
10 methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods. For
   example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another business
   model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the
   process.
            Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
15 aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the
   plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of
   the described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described
   plurality.
            An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
20 that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply
   that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that
25 any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
            An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
            All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
   embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
                                                     51

           VI.      Computing
           It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various processes
   described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general purpose
   computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor (e.g.,
 5 one or more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal
   processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those
   instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
   Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or more scripts.
           A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units (CPUs),
10 computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices or any
   combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing / multi
   core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining
   configuration, simultaneous multithreading).
           Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
15 performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a
   processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the
   process.
           Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data) may
   be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media) in a
20 number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware may
   be used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions that can
   implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware
   and software may be used instead of software only.
           The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the
25 same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g.,
   instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device.
   Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media,
   volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or
   magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random
30 access memory (DRAM), which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission
   media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise
                                                   52

   a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic
   waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio
   frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
   readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape,
 5 any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards,
   paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an
   EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as
   described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read.
            Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data (e.g.
10 sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from RAM
   to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted and / or
   transmitted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or
   IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, BluetoothD, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv)
   encrypted to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the
15 art.
            Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable
   medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium can
   store (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to perform
   the method.
20          Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the
   described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer / computing
   device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
            Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that
   all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium storing a
25 program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a program that, when
   executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described
   process.
            Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the
   art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed, and
30 (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations
   or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for
                                                     53

   stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed
   besides those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any
   illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of ordinary
   skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different
 5 from those described herein. Further, despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other
   formats (including relational databases, object-based models and / or distributed databases)
   could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise, object
   methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes, such as the
   described herein. In addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or
10 remotely from a device which accesses data in such a database.
            Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment including
   a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with one or more
   devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly, via any
   wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a
15 telephone line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications line, commercial on
   line service providers, bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a
   combination of any of the above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers
   or other computing devices, such as those based on the Intel@ Pentium@ or CentrinoTM
   processor, that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of
20 devices may be in communication with the computer.
            In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be necessary
   or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be practiced on
   one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any functions
   described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the
25 server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
            Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate without
   any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human
   intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
            VII.    Continuing Applications
30          The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an enabling
   description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these embodiments and /
                                                   54

   or inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but may nevertheless be
   claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the
   present application.
            Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter
 5 that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.
            VIII. 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6
            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for" or the
   phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, applies to that limitation.
            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase "means for" or
10 the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6 does not apply to that
   limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of
   structure, material or acts for performing that function. For example, in a claim, the mere
   use of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in referring to one or more steps of the
   claim or of another claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, applies to that
15 step(s).
            With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance
   with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure, material or acts described in
   the specification, and equivalents thereof, may perform additional functions as well as the
   specified function.
20          Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures that can
   perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a specified
   function by executing one or more programs, such as a program stored in a memory device
   of that product or in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless expressly
   specified otherwise, such a program need not be based on any particular algorithm, such as
25 any particular algorithm that might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known
   to one of ordinary skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different
   algorithms, and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design choice for
   carrying out the specified function.
            Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
30 accordance with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding to a specified
   function includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such structure
                                                    55

   includes programmed products which perform the function, regardless of whether such
   product is programmed with (i) a disclosed algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an
   algorithm that is similar to a disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing
   the function.
 5          Where there is recited a means for performing a function that is a method, one
   structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose
   computer) that is programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that
   function.
            Also included is a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
10 programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via
   other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
            IX.     Disclaimer
            Numerous references to a particular embodiment do not indicate a disclaimer or
   disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly references to the description
15 of embodiments which all include a particular feature do not indicate a disclaimer or
   disavowal of embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A clear disclaimer
   or disavowal in the present application shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or
   by the phrase "cannot perform".
            X.      Incorporation By Reference
20          Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is incorporated
   by reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure, but only for
   purposes of written description and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C.  112,
   paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe any term
   of the present application, unless without such incorporation by reference, no ordinary
25 meaning would have been ascertainable by a person of ordinary skill in the art. Such person
   of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any way limited by any embodiments
   provided in the reference
            Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any endorsement of,
   ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions, arguments or characterizations
30 contained in any incorporated patent, patent application or other document, unless explicitly
   specified otherwise in this patent application.
                                                   56

            XI.     Prosecution History
            In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of ordinary
   skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application, but not to the
   prosecution history of any other patent or patent application, regardless of whether there are
 5 other patent applications that are considered related to the present application, and regardless
   of whether there are other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present
   application.
            XII.     Cards
            Playing cards have been in existence for many years. Although there are many types
10 of playing cards that are played in many different types of games, the most common type of
   playing cards consists of 52 cards, divided out into four different suits (namely Spades,
   Hearts, Diamonds and Clubs) which are printed or indicated on one side or on the face of
   each card. In the standard deck, each of the four suits of cards consists of 13 cards,
   numbered either two through ten, or lettered A (Ace), K (King),       Q (Queen), or J (Jack),
15 which is also printed or indicated on the face of each card. Each card will thus contain on its
   face a suit indication along with a number or letter indication. The King, Queen, and Jack
   usually also include some sort of design on the face of the card, and may be referred to as
   picture cards. Other types of playing cards are described herein, but it should be recognized
   that various topics may apply to any, some, and/or all type of playing cards.
20          In some cases, the 52 card standard playing deck also contains a number of extra
   cards, sometimes referred to as jokers, that may have some use or meaning depending on the
   particular game being played with the deck. For example, if a card game includes the jokers,
   then if a player receives a joker in his "hand" he may use it as any card in the deck. If the
   player has the ten, jack, queen and king of Spades, along with a joker, the player would use
25 the joker as an Ace of Spades. The player will then have a Royal Flush (ten through Ace of
   Spades).
            Many different games can be played using a standard deck of playing cards. The
   game being played with the standard deck of cards may include other items, such as game
   boards, chips, etc., or the game being played may only need the playing card deck itself. In
30 most of the games played using a standard deck of cards, a value is assigned to each card.
   The value may differ for different games.
                                                     57

           Usually, the card value begins with the number two card as the lowest value and
   increases as the numbers increase through ten, followed in order of increasing value with the
   Jack, Queen, King and Ace. In some games the Ace may have a lower value than the two,
   and in games where a particular card is determined to be wild, or have any value, that card
 5 may have the greatest value of all. For example, in card games where deuces, or twos, are
   wild, the player holding a playing card containing a two can use that two as any other card,
   such that a nine and a two would be the equivalent of two nines.
           Further, the four different suits indicated on the cards may have a particular value
   depending on the game. Under game rules where one suit, i.e., Spades, has more value than
10 another suit, i.e., Hearts, the seven of Spades may have more value than the seven of Hearts.
           It is easy to visualize that using the different card quantity and suit values, many
   different games can be played. In certain games, it is the combination of cards that one
   player obtains that determines whether or not that player has defeated the other player or
   players. Usually, the more difficult the combination is to obtain, the more value the
15 combination has, and the player who obtains the more difficult combination (also taking into
   account the value of the cards) wins the game.
           For instance in the game of Poker, each player may ultimately receive five cards.
   The player who obtains three cards having similar numbers on their face, i.e., the four of
   Hearts, four of Diamonds and four of Clubs, will defeat the player having only two cards
20 with the same numerical value, i.e., the King of Spades and the King of Hearts. However,
   the player with five cards that all contain Clubs, commonly known as a flush, will defeat the
   player with the same three of a kind described above.
           In many instances, a standard deck of playing cards is used to create gaming
   machines. In these gaming machines players insert coins and play certain card games, such
25 as poker, using an imitation of standard playing cards on a video screen, in an attempt to win
   back more money than they originally inserted into the machine.
           Another form of gambling using playing cards utilizes tables, otherwise known as
   table games. A table uses a table and a dealer, with the players sitting or standing around the
   table. The players place their bets on the table and the dealer deals the cards to each player.
30 The number of cards dealt, or whether the cards are dealt face up or face down, will depend
   on the particular table game being played.
                                                    58

            Further, an imitation or depiction of a standard playing card is used in many
   handheld electronic games, such as poker and blackjack, and in many computer games and
   Internet games. Using a handheld electronic game or a computer terminal that may or may
   not be connected to the Internet, a player receives the imitation playing cards and plays a
 5 card game either against the computer or against other players. Further, many of these
   games can be played on the computer in combination with gambling.
            Also, there are many game shows that are broadcasted on television that use a deck
   of playing cards in the game play, in which the cards are usually enlarged or shown on a
   video screen or monitor for easy viewing. In these television game shows, the participants
10 play the card game for prizes or money, usually against each other, with an individual acting
   as a host overseeing the action.
            Also, there are lottery tickets that players purchase and play by "scratching off" an
   opaque layer to see if they have won money and prizes. The opaque layer prevents the
   player from knowing the results of the lottery ticket prior to purchasing and scratching off
15 the layer. In some of these lottery tickets, playing cards are used under the opaque layer and
   the player may need to match a number of similar cards in order to win the prizes or money.
            XIII.   Rules of Card Games
   Rules of Poker
            In a basic poker game, which is played with a standard 52-card deck, each player is
20 dealt five cards. All five cards in each player's hand are evaluated as a single hand with the
   presence of various combinations of the cards such as pairs, three-of-a-kind, straight, etc.
   Determining which combinations prevail over other combinations is done by reference to a
   table containing a ranking of the combinations. Rankings in most tables are based on the
   odds of each combination occurring in the player's hand. Regardless of the number of cards
25 in a player's hand, the values assigned to the cards, and the odds, the method of evaluating
   all five cards in a player's hand remain the same.
            Poker is a popular skill-based card game in which players with fully or partially
   concealed cards make wagers into a central pot. The pot is awarded to the player or players
   with the best combination of cards or to the player who makes an uncalled bet. Poker can
30 also refer to video poker, a single-player game seen in casinos much like a slot machine, or
   to other games that use poker hand rankings.
                                                     59

            Poker is played in a multitude of variations, but most follow the same basic pattern
   of play.
            The right to deal each hand typically rotates among the players and is marked by a
   token called a 'dealer' button or buck. In a casino, a house dealer handles the cards for each
 5 hand, but a button (typically a white plastic disk) is rotated clockwise among the players to
   indicate a nominal dealer to determine the order of betting.
            For each hand, one or more players are required to make forced bets to create an
   initial stake for which the players will contest. The dealer shuffles the cards, he cuts, and the
   appropriate number of cards are dealt to the players one at a time. Cards may be dealt either
10 face-up or face-down, depending on the variant of poker being played. After the initial deal,
   the first of what may be several betting rounds begins. Between rounds, the players' hands
   develop in some way, often by being dealt additional cards or replacing cards previously
   dealt. At the end of each round, all bets are gathered into the central pot.
            At any time during a betting round, if a player makes a bet, opponents are required to
15 fold, call or raise. If one player bets and no opponents choose to match the bet, the hand
   ends immediately, the bettor is awarded the pot, no cards are required to be shown, and the
   next hand begins. The ability to win a pot without showing a hand makes bluffing possible.
   Bluffing is a primary feature of poker, one that distinguishes it from other vying games and
   from other games that make use of poker hand rankings.
20          At the end of the last betting round, if more than one player remains, there is a
   showdown, in which the players reveal their previously hidden cards and evaluate their
   hands. The player with the best hand according to the poker variant being played wins the
   pot.
            The most popular poker variants are as follows:
25          Draw poker
            Players each receive five -    as in five-card draw - or more cards, all of which are
   hidden. They can then replace one or more of these cards a certain number of times.
            Stud poker
            Players receive cards one at a time, some being displayed to other players at the
30 table. The key difference between stud and 'draw' poker is that players are not allowed to
   discard or replace any cards.
                                                     60

            Community card poker
            Players combine individually dealt cards with a number of "community cards" dealt
   face up and shared by all players. Two or four individual cards may be dealt in the most
   popular variations, Texas hold 'em and Omaha hold 'em, respectively.
 5 Poker Hand Rankings
            Straight flush
            A straight flush is a poker hand such as Q4 J4 104 94 84, which contains five cards
   in sequence, all of the same suit. Two such hands are compared by their high card in the
   same way as are straights. The low ace rule also applies: 5+ 4+ 3+ 2+ A+ is a 5-high straight
10 flush (also known as a "steel wheel"). An ace-high straight flush such as A4 K4 Q4 J4 104
   is known as a royal flush, and is the highest ranking standard poker hand (excluding five of
   a kind).
            Examples:
            7V 6V 5V 4V 3V beats 54 44 34 24 A#
15          J4 104 94 84 74 ties J+ 10+ 9+ 8+ 7+
            Four of a kind
            Four of a kind, or quads, is a poker hand such as 94 94 9+ 9V JV, which contains
   four cards of one rank, and an unmatched card. It ranks above a full house and below a
   straight flush. Higher ranking quads defeat lower ranking ones. Between two equal sets of
20 four of a kind (possible in wild card and community card games), the kicker determines the
   winner.
            Examples:
            104 10+ 1O     104 5+ ("four tens" or "quad tens") defeats 6+ 6V 64 64 K# ("four
   sixes" or "quad sixes")
25          104 10+ 1O     104 Q4 ("four tens, queen kicker") defeats 104 10+ 1O     104 5+ ("four
   tens with a five")
            Full house
            A full house, also known as a boat or a full boat, is a poker hand such as 34 34 3+
   64 6Y, which contains three matching cards of one rank, plus two matching cards of another
30 rank. It ranks below a four of a kind and above a flush. Between two full houses, the one
   with the higher ranking set of three wins. If two have the same set of three (possible in wild
                                                   61

   card and community card games), the hand with the higher pair wins. Full houses are
   described by the three of a kind (e.g.  Q-Q-Q)   and pair (e.g. 9-9), as in "Queens over nines"
   (also used to describe a two pair), "Queens full of nines" or simply "Queens full".
           Examples:
 5          104 1O    10+ 4# 4+ ("tens full") defeats 9V 94 94 AV A1 ("nines full")
            K# K1 KV+       34 ("kings full") defeats 34 3V 3+ K# K+ ("threes full")
            QV Q+ Q1 8V 84 ("queens full of eights") defeats QV Q+ Q1 54 5V ("queens full of
   fives")
           Flush
10         A flush is a poker hand such as   Q1  101 71 64 41, which contains five cards of the
   same suit, not in rank sequence. It ranks above a straight and below a full house. Two
   flushes are compared as if they were high card hands. In other words, the highest ranking
   card of each is compared to determine the winner; if both have the same high card, then the
   second-highest ranking card is compared, etc. The suits have no value: two flushes with the
15 same five ranks of cards are tied. Flushes are described by the highest card, as in "queen
   high flush".
           Examples:
            AV QV 1O 5V 3V ("ace-high flush") defeats K# Q# J# 94 64 ("king-high flush")
            A+ K+ 7+ 6+ 2+ ("flush, ace-king high") defeats AV QV 1O          5V 3V ("flush, ace
20 queen high")
            QV 1O    9V 5V 2V ("heart flush") ties Q# 104 94 54 24 ("spade flush")
           Straight
           A straight is a poker hand such as  Q1   J# 104 9V 8V, which contains five cards of
   sequential rank, of varying suits. It ranks above three of a kind and below a flush. Two
25 straights are ranked by comparing the high card of each. Two straights with the same high
   card are of equal value, and split any winnings (straights are the most commonly tied hands
   in poker, especially in community card games). Straights are described by the highest card,
   as in "queen-high straight" or "straight to the queen".
           A hand such as A1 K1     Q+ J#   104 is an ace-high straight, and ranks above a king
30 high straight such as KV Q# JV 1O 9+. But the ace may also be played as a 1-spot in a hand
   such as 54 4+ 3+ 24 AJ, called a wheel or five-high straight, which ranks below the six-high
                                                   62

   straight 64 54 44 3V 2V. The ace may not "wrap around", or play both high and low in the
   same hand: 34 2+ A# K# Q4 is not a straight, but just ace-high no pair.
           Examples:
            8# 74 6f 5s 4# ("eight-high straight") defeats 6+ 5# 4+ 3s 24 ("six-high straight")
 5          84 74 6V 5V 4# ties 8V 7+ 64 54 4V
           Three of a kind
           Three of a kind, also called trips, set or a prile, is a poker hand such as 2+ 2# 2V K#
   6#, which contains three cards of the same rank, plus two unmatched cards. It ranks above
   two pair and below a straight. Higher ranking three of a kind defeat lower ranking three of a
10 kinds. If two hands have the same rank three of a kind (possible in games with wild cards or
   community cards), the kickers are compared to break the tie.
           Examples:
            8# 8V 8+ 5# 34 ("three eights") defeats 54 5V 5+       Q+ 104   ("three fives")
            8# 8V 8+ A4 2+ ("three eights, ace kicker") defeats 8# 8V 8+ 5# 34 ("three eights,
15 five kicker")
           Two pair
           A poker hand such as JV J4 44 4# 9#, which contains two cards of the same rank,
   plus two cards of another rank (that match each other but not the first pair), plus one
   unmatched card, is called two pair. It ranks above one pair and below three of a kind.
20 Between two hands containing two pair, the higher ranking pair of each is first compared,
   and the higher pair wins. If both have the same top pair, then the second pair of each is
   compared. Finally, if both hands have the same two pairs, the kicker determines the winner.
   Two pair are described by the higher pair (e.g., KV K4) and the lower pair (e.g., 9# 9+), as
   in "Kings over nines", "Kings and nines" or simply "Kings up".
25         Examples:
            KV K+ 24 2+ JV ("kings up") defeats J+ J# 10+ 104 9# ("jacks up")
            94 9+ 7+ 7# 6Y ("nines and sevens") defeats 9Y 9# 5V 5+ K4 ("nines and fives")
            4# 44 3+ 3V K+ ("fours and threes, king kicker") defeats 4V 4+ 3+ 3 10+ ("fours and
   threes with a ten")
30         One pair
                                                    63

            One pair is a poker hand such as 4V 44 K# 10+ 54, which contains two cards of the
   same rank, plus three unmatched cards. It ranks above any high card hand, but below all
   other poker hands. Higher ranking pairs defeat lower ranking pairs. If two hands have the
   same rank of pair, the non-paired cards in each hand (the kickers) are compared to determine
 5 the winner.
           Examples:
            101 104 64 4V 2V ("pair of tens") defeats 9V 91 AV      Q+ 10+ ("pair of nines")
             1O  10+ J+ 3V 21 ("tens with jack kicker") defeats 101 104 64 4V 2V ("tens with
   six kicker")
10          2+ 2V 84 51 41 ("deuces, eight-five-four") defeats 21 24 81 5V 3V ("deuces, eight
   five-three")
           High card
           A high-card or no-pair hand is a poker hand such as KV J1 81 7+ 34, in which no
   two cards have the same rank, the five cards are not in sequence, and the five cards are not
15 all the same suit. It can also be referred to as "nothing" or "garbage," and many other
   derogatory terms. It ranks below all other poker hands. Two such hands are ranked by
   comparing the highest ranking card; if those are equal, then the next highest ranking card; if
   those are equal, then the third highest ranking card, etc. No-pair hands are described by the
   one or two highest cards in the hand, such as "king high" or "ace-queen high", or by as many
20 cards as are necessary to break a tie.
           Examples:
             A+ 10+ 94 51 41 ("ace high") defeats K1      Q+ J1  8V 7V ("king high")
             A1  Q1  7+ 5V 21 ("ace-queen") defeats A+ 10+ 94 51 41 ("ace-ten")
             74 61 51 4+ 2V ("seven-six-five-four") defeats 71 6+ 5+ 3V 21 ("seven-six-five
25 three")
           Decks using a bug
           The use of joker as a bug creates a slight variation of game play. When a joker is
   introduced in standard poker games it functions as a fifth ace, or can be used as a flush or
   straight card (though it can be used as a wild card too). Normally casino draw poker variants
30 use a joker, and thus the best possible hand is five of a kind, as in AV A+ A1 A4 Joker.
                                                    64

   Rules of Caribbean Stud
            Caribbean StudTM poker may be played as follows. A player and a dealer are each
   dealt five cards. If the dealer has a poker hand having a value less than Ace-King
   combination or better, the player automatically wins. If the dealer has a poker hand having a
 5 value of an Ace-King combination or better, then the higher of the player's or the dealer's
   hand wins. If the player wins, he may receive an additional bonus payment depending on the
   poker rank of his hand. In the commercial play of the game, a side bet is usually required to
   allow a chance at a progressive jackpot. In Caribbean StudTM poker, it is the dealer's hand
   that must qualify. As the dealer's hand is partially concealed during play (usually only one
10 card, at most) is displayed to the player before player wagering is complete), the player must
   always be aware that even ranked player hands can lose to a dealer's hand and no bonus will
   be paid out unless the side bet has been made, and then usually only to hands having a rank
   of a flush or higher.
   Rules of Blackjack
15          Some versions of Blackjack are now described. Blackjack hands are scored
   according to the point total of the cards in the hand. The hand with the highest total wins as
   long as it is 21 or less. If the total is greater than 21, it is a called a "bust." Numbered cards 2
   through 10 have a point value equal to their face value, and face cards (i.e., Jack, Queen and
   King) are worth 10 points. An Ace is worth 11 points unless it would bust a hand, in which
20 case it is worth 1 point. Players play against the dealer and win by having a higher point
   total no greater than 21. If the player busts, the player loses, even if the dealer also busts. If
   the player and dealer have hands with the same point value, this is called a "push," and
   neither party wins the hand.
            After the initial bets are placed, the dealer deals the cards, either from one or more,
25 but typically two, hand-held decks of cards, or from a "shoe" containing multiple decks of
   cards, generally at least four decks of cards, and typically many more. A game in which the
   deck or decks of cards are hand-held is known as a "pitch" game. "Pitch" games are
   generally not played in casinos. When playing with more than one deck, the decks are
   shuffled together in order to make it more difficult to remember which cards have been dealt
30 and which have not. The dealer deals two cards to each player and to himself. Typically, one
   of the dealer's two cards is dealt face-up so that all players can see it, and the other is face
                                                       65

   down. The face-down card is called the "hole card." In a European variation, the "hole card"
   is dealt after all the players' cards are dealt and their hands have been played. The players'
   cards are dealt face up from a shoe and face down if it is a "pitch" game.
            A two-card hand with a point value of 21 (i.e., an Ace and a face card or a 10) is
 5 called a "Blackjack" or a "natural" and wins automatically. A player with a "natural" is
   conventionally paid 3:2 on his bet, although in 2003 some Las Vegas casinos began paying
   6:5, typically in games with only a single deck.
            Once the first two cards have been dealt to each player and the dealer, the dealer
   wins automatically if the dealer has a "natural" and the player does not. If the player has a
10 "natural" and the dealer does not, the player automatically wins. If the dealer and player both
   have a "natural," neither party wins the hand.
            If neither side has a "natural," each player completely plays out their hand; when all
   players have finished, the dealer plays his hand.
            The playing of the hand typically involves a combination of four possible actions
15 "hitting," "standing," "doubling down," or "splitting" his hand. Often another action called
   "surrendering" is added. To "hit" is to take another card. To "stand" is to take no more cards.
   To "double down" is to double the wager, take precisely one more card and then "stand."
   When a player has identical value cards, such as a pair of 8s, the player can "split" by
   placing an additional wager and playing each card as the first card in two new hands. To
20 "surrender" is to forfeit half the player's bet and give up his hand. "Surrender" is not an
   option in most casino games of Blackjack. A player's turn ends if he "stands," "busts" or
   "doubles down." If the player "busts," he loses even if the dealer subsequently busts. This is
   the house advantage.
            After all players have played their hands, the dealer then reveals the dealer's hole
25 card and plays his hand. According to house rules (the prevalent casino rules), the dealer
   must hit until he has a point total of at least 17, regardless of what the players have. In most
   casinos, the dealer must also hit on a "soft" 17 (e.g., an Ace and 6). In a casino, the
   Blackjack table felt is marked to indicate if the dealer hits or stands on a soft 17. If the
   dealer busts, all remaining players win. Bets are normally paid out at odds of 1:1.
30          Four of the common rule variations are one card split Aces, early surrender, late
   surrender and double-down restrictions. In the first variation, one card is dealt on each Ace
                                                     66

   and the player's turn is over. In the second, the player has the option to surrender before the
   dealer checks for Blackjack. In the third, the player has the option to surrender after the
   dealer checks for Blackjack. In the fourth, doubling-down is only permitted for certain card
   combinations.
 5 Insurance
            Insurance is a commonly-offered betting option in which the player can hedge his bet
   by wagering that the dealer will win the hand. If the dealer's "up card" is an Ace, the player
   is offered the option of buying Insurance before the dealer checks his "hole card." If the
   player wishes to take Insurance, the player can bet an amount up to half that of his original
10 bet. The Insurance bet is placed separately on a special portion of the table, which is usually
   marked with the words "Insurance Pays 2:1." The player buying Insurance is betting that the
   dealer's "hole card" is one with a value of 10 (i.e., a 10, Jack, Queen or King). Because the
   dealer's up card is an Ace, the player who buys Insurance is betting that the dealer has a
   "natural."
15          If the player originally bets $10 and the dealer shows an Ace, the player can buy
   Insurance by betting up to $5. Suppose the player makes a $5 Insurance bet and the player's
   hand with the two cards dealt to him totals 19. If the dealer's hole card is revealed to be a 10
   after the Insurance betting period is over (the dealer checks for a "natural" before the players
   play their hands), the player loses his original $10 bet, but he wins the $5 Insurance bet at
20 odds of 2:1, winning $10 and therefore breaking even. In the same situation, if the dealer's
   hole card is not one with a value of ten, the player immediately loses his $5 Insurance bet.
   But if the player chooses to stand on 19, and if the dealer's hand has a total value less than
   19, at the end of the dealer's turn, the player wins his original $10 bet, making a net profit of
   $5. In the same situation, if the dealer's hole card is not one with a value of ten, again the
25 player will immediately lose their $5 Insurance bet, and if the dealer's hand has a total value
   greater than the player's at the end of both of their turns, for example the player stood on 19
   and the dealer ended his turn with 20, the player loses both his original $10 bet and his $5
   Insurance bet.
   Basic Strategy
30          Blackjack players can increase their expected winnings by several means, one of
   which is "basic strategy." "Basic strategy" is simply something that exists as a matter of
                                                    67

   general practice; it has no official sanction. The "basic strategy" determines when to hit and
   when to stand, as well as when doubling down or splitting in the best course. Basic strategy
   is based on the player's point total and the dealer's visible card. Under some conditions (e.g.,
   playing with a single deck according to downtown Las Vegas rules) the house advantage
 5 over a player using basic strategy can be as low as 0.16%. Casinos offering options like
   surrender and double-after-split may be giving the player using basic strategy a statistical
   advantage and instead rely on players making mistakes to provide a house advantage.
            A number of optional rules can benefit a skilled player, for example: if doubling
   down is permitted on any two-card hand other than a natural; if "doubling down" is
10 permitted after splitting; if early surrender (forfeiting half the bet against a face or Ace up
   card before the dealer checks for Blackjack) is permitted; if late surrender is permitted; if re
   splitting Aces is permitted (splitting when the player has more than two cards in their hand,
   and has just been dealt a second ace in their hand); if drawing more than one card against a
   split Ace is permitted; if five or more cards with a total no more than 21 is an automatic win
15 (referred to as "Charlies").
             Other optional rules can be detrimental to a skilled player. For example: if a
   'natural" pays less than 3:2 (e.g., Las Vegas Strip single-deck Blackjack paying out at 6:5
   for a "natural"); if a hand can only be split once (is re-splitting possible for other than aces);
   if doubling down is restricted to certain totals (e.g., 9 11 or 10 11); if Aces may not be re
20 split; if the rules are those of "no-peek" (or European) Blackjack, according to which the
   player loses hands that have been split or "doubled down" to a dealer who has a
   "natural'(because the dealer does not check for this automatically winning hand until the
   players had played their hands); if the player loses ties with the dealer, instead of pushing
   where neither the player or the dealer wins and the player retains their original bet.
25 Card Counting
            Unlike some other casino games, in which one play has no influence on any
   subsequent play, a hand of Blackjack removes those cards from the deck. As cards are
   removed from the deck, the probability of each of the remaining cards being dealt is altered
   (and dealing the same cards becomes impossible). If the remaining cards have an elevated
30 proportion of 10-value cards and Aces, the player is more likely to be dealt a natural, which
   is to the player's advantage (because the dealer wins even money when the dealer has a
                                                    68

   natural, while the player wins at odds of 3:2 when the player has a natural). If the remaining
   cards have an elevated proportion of low-value cards, such as 4s, 5s and 6s, the player is
   more likely to bust, which is to the dealer's advantage (because if the player busts, the dealer
   wins even if the dealer later busts).
 5          The house advantage in Blackjack is relatively small at the outset. By keeping track
   of which cards have been dealt, a player can take advantage of the changing proportions of
   the remaining cards by betting higher amounts when there is an elevated proportion of 10
   value cards and Aces and by better lower amounts when there is an elevated proportion of
   low-value cards. Over time, the deck will be unfavorable to the player more often than it is
10 favorable, but by adjusting the amounts that he bets, the player can overcome that inherent
   disadvantage. The player can also use this information to refine basic strategy. For instance,
   basic strategy calls for hitting on a 16 when the dealer's up card is a 10, but if the player
   knows that the deck has a disproportionately small number of low-value cards remaining,
   the odds may be altered in favor of standing on the 16.
15          There are a number of card-counting schemes, all dependent for their efficacy on the
   player's ability to remember either a simplified or detailed tally of the cards that have been
   played. The more detailed the tally, the more accurate it is, but the harder it is to remember.
   Although card counting is not illegal, casinos will eject or ban successful card counters if
   they are detected.
20          Shuffle tracking is a more obscure, and difficult, method of attempting to shift the
   odds in favor of the player. The player attempts to track groups of cards during the play of a
   multi-deck shoe, follow them through the shuffle, and then looks for the same group to
   reappear from the new shoe, playing and betting accordingly.
            XIV. Casino Countermeasures
25          Some methods of thwarting card counters include using a large number of decks.
   Shoes containing 6 or 8 decks are common. The more cards there are, the less variation there
   is in the proportions of the remaining cards and the harder it is to count them. The player's
   advantage can also be reduced by shuffling the cards more frequently, but this reduces the
   amount of time that can be devoting to actual play and therefore reduces the casino profits.
30 Some casinos now use shuffling machines, some of which shuffle one set of cards while
   another is in play, while others continuously shuffle the cards. The distractions of the
                                                   69

   gaming floor environment and complimentary alcoholic beverages also act to thwart card
   counters. Some methods of thwarting card counters include using varied payoff structures,
   such Blackjack payoff of 6:5, which is more disadvantageous to the player than the standard
   3:2 Blackjack payoff.
 5         XV.      Video Wagering Games
           Video wagering games are set up to mimic a table game using adaptations of table
   games rules and cards.
           In one version of video poker the player is allowed to inspect five cards randomly
   chosen by the computer. These cards are displayed on the video screen and the player
10 chooses which cards, if any, that he or she wishes to hold. If the player wishes to hold all of
   the cards, i.e., stand, he or she presses a STAND button. If the player wishes to hold only
   some of the cards, he or she chooses the cards to be held by pressing HOLD keys located
   directly under each card displayed on the video screen. Pushing a DEAL button after
   choosing the HOLD cards automatically and simultaneously replaces the unchosen cards
15 with additional cards which are randomly selected from the remainder of the deck. After the
   STAND button is pushed, or the cards are replaced, the final holding is evaluated by the
   game machine's computer and the player is awarded either play credits or a coin payout as
   determined from a payoff table. This payoff table is stored in the machine's computer
   memory and is also displayed on the machine's screen. Hands with higher poker values are
20 awarded more credits or coins. Very rare poker hands are awarded payoffs of 800-to-I or
   higher.
           XVI.     Apparatus for Playing Over a Communications System
           Figure 1 shows apparatus for playing the game. There is a plurality of player units
   40-1 to 40-n which are coupled via a communication system 41, such as the Internet, with a
25 game playing system comprising an administration unit 42, a player register 43, and a game
   unit 45. Each unit 40 is typically a personal computer with a display unit and control means
   (a keyboard and a mouse).
           When a player logs on to the game playing system, their unit 40 identifies itself to
   the administration unit. The system holds the details of the players in the register 43, which
30 contains separate player register units 44-1 to 44-n for all the potential players, i.e., for all
   the members of the system.
                                                  70

            Once the player has been identified, the player is assigned to a game unit 45. The
   game unit contains a set of player data units 46-1 to 46-6, a dealer unit 47, a control unit 48,
   and a random dealing unit 49.
           Up to seven players can be assigned to the game unit 45. There can be several such
 5 units, as indicated, so that several games can be played at the same time if there are more
   than seven members of the system logged on at the same time. The assignment of a player
   unit 40 to a player data unit 46 may be arbitrary or random, depending on which player data
   units 46 and game units 45 are free. Each player data unit 46 is loaded from the
   corresponding player register unit 44 and also contains essentially the same details as the
10 corresponding player unit 40, and is in communication with the player unit 40 to keep the
   contents of the player unit and player data unit updated with each other. In addition, the
   appropriate parts of the contents of the other player data units 46 and the dealer unit 47 are
   passed to the player unit 40 for display.
           The logic unit 48 of the game unit 45 steps the game unit through the various stages
15 of the play, initiating the dealer actions and awaiting the appropriate responses from the
   player units 40. The random dealing unit 49 deals cards essentially randomly to the dealer
   unit 47 and the player data units 46. At the end of the hand, the logic unit passes the results
   of the hand, i.e., the wins and/or losses, to the player data units 46 to inform the players of
   their results. The administrative unit 42 also takes those results and updates the player
20 register units 44 accordingly.
           The player units 40 are arranged to show a display. To identify the player, the
   player's position is highlighted. As play proceeds, so the player selects the various boxes,
   enters bets in them, and so on, and the results of those actions are displayed. As the cards are
   dealt, a series of overlapping card symbols is shown in the Bonus box. At the option of the
25 player, the cards can be shown in a line below the box, and similarly for the card dealt to the
   dealer. At the end of the hand, a message is displayed informing the player of the results of
   their bets, i.e., the amounts won or lost.
           XVII. Alternative Technologies
           It will be understood that the technologies described herein for making, using, or
30 practicing various embodiments are but a subset of the possible technologies that may be
   used for the same or similar purposes. The particular technologies described herein are not
                                                    71

  to be construed as limiting. Rather, various embodiments contemplate alternate
  technologies for making, using, or practicing various embodiments.
          XVIII.          References
          The following patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference
5 herein for all purposes: US patent 6,579,181, US patent 6,299,536, US patent 6,093,103, US
  patent 5,941,769, US patent 7,114,718, US patent application serial number 10/622,321, US
  patent 4,515,367, US patent 5,000,453, US patent 7,137,630, and US patent 7,137,629.
                                                72

            Claims
            What is claimed is:
   1. A method comprising:
            determining, by a computing device, a first group of players to which a first player
 5 belongs;
            determining, by the computing device, a second group of players to which a second
   player belongs;
            determining, by the computing device, that the first player is allowed to play a game
   against the second player based on the first group and the second group being rival groups,
10 in which the first player is not allowed to play games against other members of the first
   group;
            matching, by the computing device, the first player and the second playing the game;
   and
            determining, by the computing device, a winner of the game.
15
   2. The method of claim 1, comprising:
            determining that the first player belongs to the first group based on a location of the
   first player.
20 3. The method of claim 1, comprising:
            determining that the first player belongs to the first group based on a characteristic of
   the first player.
   4. The method of claim 3, in which the characteristic includes ta least one of: the first player
25 being a fan of a first team, the first player being a student at a first school, the first player
   being an alumni of a first school, the first player being a patron of a first merchant, the first
   player living in a first location, and the first player being a first gender.
   5. The method of claim 1, in which the game includes a fantasy sports game.
30
                                                     73

   6. The method of claim 1, comprising:
           requiring the first player to pick at least one members of a first fantasy sports team
   for the game from a first set of players that is specific to the first group and the second
   player to select one member of a second fantasy sports team for the game from a second set
 5 of players that is specific to the second group.
   7. The method of claim 1, in which determining the first group includes assigning the first
   player to the first group without a request from the first player to be assigned to the first
10 group.
   8. The method of claim 1, comprising:
           forming the first group, in which the first group is defined to include players that
15 have a particular first characteristic.
   9. The method of claim 8, in which forming the first group includes forming the first group
   in response to a request to form the group defined by the first characteristic from a sponsor
   of the first group.
20
   10. The method of claim 1, comprising:
           determining outcomes of a plurality of other games that are each between respective
   members of the first group and respective members of the second group.
25 11. The method of claim 10, comprising:
           determining an outcome of a group game based on the out outcome of the game and
   plurality of other games.
   12. The method of claim 11, in which the first group wins the group game if a total number
30 of games of the first game and the plurality of other games won by members of the first
                                                    74

   group exceeds a total number of games of the first game and the second game won by
   members of the second group.
   13. The method of claim 11, in which a group that wins the group game is based on a total
 5 number of points earned by players in the first group through the first game and the plurality
   of other games compared to a total number of points earned by players in the second group
   though the first game and the plurality of other games.
   14. The method of claim 11, comprising:
10          assigning a prize to a group that wins the group game.
   15. The method of claim 14, in which assigning the prize includes making a payment to
   respective accounts of players in the group that wins the group game.
15 16. The method of claim 14, in which assigning the prize includes making a payment to an
   account of a sponsor of the group that wins the group game.
   17. The method of claim 16, in which the sponsor is not a player in the group that wins the
   group game.
20
   18. The method of claim 16, in which the sponsor includes a charity chosen by the players in
   the group that wins the group game.
   19. The method of claim 1, in which the game includes a fantasy game that is based on a real
25 life tournament, in which players in the tournament are dropped from the tournament as the
   tournament progresses and are not replaced in the fantasy game that is based on the
   tournament so that some members of each fantasy team in the game do not earn points after
   elimination from the tournament.
30
                                                   75

   20. The method of claim 1, comprising:
            during play of first game, facilitating the first player offering a buyout of the game to
   the second player.
 5 21. The method of claim 20, comprising:
            receiving, from the first player, an indication of an amount of money that the second
   player will be awarded if the second player accepts the buyout; and
            presenting that amount to the second player in an offer to end the game.
10 22. The method of claim 21, comprising:
            receiving an acceptance of the offer; and
            in response to receiving the acceptance, awarding the amount of money to the second
   player and awarding a second amount of money to the first player, in which the second
   amount of money includes an amount of money in a prize pool for the game minus the
15 amount of money.
   23. The method of claim 1, comprising:
            presenting the first player with an option to offer a doubling raise of the game to the
   second player prior to a start of the game.
20
   24. The method of claim 1, comprising:
            receiving from at least one of the first player and the second player a selection of a
   statistic related to a real event that is to be used to score the game.
25 25. The method of claim 1, in which the first player access the game through a gaming
   operator that determines outcomes for the game and the second player access the game
   through a service provider that provides at least one of a white-labeled access to the game
   and an over the counter access to the game.
30
                                                     76

   26. An apparatus comprising:
           a computing device; and
           a non-transitory medium having stored thereon a plurality of instructions that when
   executed by the computing device cause the apparatus to:
 5         determine a first group of players to which a first player belongs;
           determine a second group of players to which a second player belongs;
           determine that the first player is allowed to play a game against the second player
   based on the first group and the second group being rival groups, in which the first player is
   not allowed to play games against other members of the first group;
10         match the first player and the second playing the game; and
           determine a winner of the game.
                                                   77

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
