EBoost Trailer
A towed trailer or trailers having motive power, e.g. an electric motor(s), which power the
trailer axle(s), the motor(s) can also have a regenerating ability, their own energy storage
system e.g. batteries, capacitors or any other form of storage or an external form of
energy e.g. external electrical source or fuel in some form e.g. hydrogen.
The trailer(s) have their own controller (ECU).

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

EBoost Trailer
The invention is described in the following statement:
This invention resides in a trailer or trailers towed by a truck or prime mover.
Explanation
A towed trailer or trailers pulled by a truck normally or usually has no motive power
this invention adds motive force to the towed vehicles (eg. trailer/s).
The trailer or trailers have an electric motor(s), which power the trailer axle(s).
These motor(s) can also have a regenerating ability.
The trailer(s) have their own energy storage system eg. Batteries, capacitors or any
other form of storage.
The trailers can also have an external form of energy eg. External electrical source or
fuel in some form eg. Hydrogen.
The trailer(s) have their own controller (ECU).
A description of one such embodiment as described follows:
A prime mover and at least one or two trailers capable of taking a load in any form.
The towing vehicle in this case a prime mover, has an EBoost trailer(s) behind, when
the vehicle is attached to the trailer it is synced with either a WIFI system, Bluetooth
or even direct wiring
The idea is the prime mover controls the trailer(s) through electrical information from
the prime mover's ECU
When the operator of the prime mover requires acceleration the accelerator pedal is
applied and in turn the prime mover's ECU sees an electrical value (signal) from the
potentiometer (accelerator pedal) for a desired amount or motive force (power) from
the prime mover's engine, these same signals are also being used and sent to the
controller in the trailer. The trailer(s) controller (ECU) sees these values and supplies
a corresponding motive force (power) to the trailer(s) electric motor.
When the operator of the prime mover requires to decelerate the brake pedal is
applied and in turn the prime mover's ECU sees an electrical value (signal) from the
pressure regulator (brake pedal) for a desired amount or deceleration this is then fed
to the trailer(s) controller (ECU) and the electric motor(s) in the trailer activate as a
regenerative braking system for a desired amount of deceleration.
The regenerative braking also replenishes electrical power back into the onboard
storage system of the trailer(s).
The prime movers ECU can also be utilized/synergized for the ESP, ABS and other
safety systems so as to provide the trailer(s) controller (ECU) for added safety
features eg. To prevent jack knifing.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

EBoost Trailer Claim
The claim of this idea is to add/provide a secondary motive force for a
vehicle/combination.
The EBoost trailer uses energy and/or potentially wasted energy to propel a
vehicle/combination to a desired speed.
The EBoost trailer saves fuel by using stored energy to accelerate a
vehicle/combination.
The EBoost trailer saves fuel by catching wasted energy through regenerative
braking.
The EBoost trailer cuts exhaust emissions through the saving in fossil fuels and
using smaller engines required for the towing vehicles.
The EBoost trailer can use external and/or alternative energy sources eg. Solar,
Hydrogen etc. for its onboard energy storage.

