    P1148AU01
  ABSTRACT
  A control system 11 configured to control a swimming pool pump 2 to at the end of a
  period during which the pump is inactive, operate for a period at a treatment output to
  treat the swimming pool water and in response to an output from a sensor 8 at or
5 before the start of the period during which the pump is inactive vary at least one of the
  treatment output and a duration of the period during which the pump is operated at
  the treatment outputs.

     P1148AU01
                                                 1
                                SWIMMING POOL OPERATION
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The invention relates to the operation of swimming pools, and in particular to the
   treatment of the swimming pool water.
 5 "Swimming pools" as used herein is used interchangeably with "pools" to refer to
   swimming pools, spas, Japanese hot tubs and like water containing structures for
   bathing.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
   Existing swimming pools are equipped with a pump arranged to draw water from the
10 swimming pool and to drive that water through a filter and in turn through an electrolytic
   chlorinator before the water is returned to the pool. This arrangement of parts constitutes
   a water treatment system. The filter provides mechanical filtration separating leaves and
   debris from the water. The electrolytic chlorinator includes spaced electrodes between
   which the water is moved. The electrodes are energised to act on the water to generate
15 sanitiser. The sanitiser destroys undesirable biological species.
   When destroying the undesirable biological species the sanitiser is itself destroyed.
   Sunlight and other factors also destroy sanitiser. Thus in the operation of a swimming
   pool there is an ongoing balance between sanitiser production and the introduction of
   undesirable species. The oxidation reduction potential (ORP) of the pool water provides
20 an indication of this balance. Generally speaking a higher ORP corresponds to more
   sanitiser and less undesirable biological species.
   Most existing swimming pools incorporate a single speed pump set to run a selected
   number of hours per day. From time to time a pool attendant may check an ORP sensor
   (and/or other measures of the condition of the pool water) and adjust the length of the
25 daily operating period as required.

     P1148AU01
                                                   2
   The present inventor has recognised that the need for sanitiser production is highly
   variable and that operating a swimming pool pump at certain times can be problematic,
   for example operating a swimming pool pump late at night can upset the neighbours.
   The present invention aims to provide improvements in and for the treatment of
 5 swimming pool water, or at least to provide alternatives for those concerned with the
   treatment of swimming pool water.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One aspect of the invention provides a swimming pool installation including
   a body of water in which a person may bathe,
10 a defined flow path along which water flows
         from an inlet for receiving the water from the body of water
         to an outlet for returning the water to the body of water;
   a pump arranged to drive the water along the flow path;
   a sensor along the flow path to sense at least one characteristic of the water flowing
15 along the flow path; and
   a control system configured to
         operate the pump at an output having a non-zero time averaged value; and
         in response to the sensor increase the output of the pump.
   The installation may include an electrolytic chlorinator along the flow path to treat the
20 water flowing along the flow path.
   Preferably the system is configured to
         de-energise electrodes of the electrolytic chlorinator such that the electrodes are
         not energised whilst the pump is operated at the output having a non-zero time
         averaged value; and

     P1148AU01
                                                    3
         energise the electrodes when so increasing the output of the pump in response to
         the sensor.
   The output having a non-zero time averaged value is preferably low enough that gases
   would accumulate if the electrodes were energised whilst the pump is operated at this
 5 output.
   The installation may include
   a control unit for controlling the electrolytic cell;
   the control unit including
         a housing containing the system,
10       a power inlet for connecting the system to, to receive power from, an electrical
         power supply;
         a power outlet for connecting the system to, to supply power to, electrodes of the
         cell;
         a data inlet for connecting the system to, to receive an output from, the sensor; and
15       a data outlet for connecting the system to, to send control signals to, the pump.
   The control system is preferably configured to operate the pump for a period at a
   treatment output to treat the swimming pool water then reduce the output of the pump to
   so operate the pump at an output having a non-zero time averaged value.
   The control system may be configured to, after so increasing the output of the pump, in
20 response to the sensor reduce the output of the pump.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a control system configured to
   control a swimming pool pump to operate the pump at an output having a non-zero time
   averaged value;

     P1148AU01
                                                  4
   de-energise electrodes of an electrolytic chlorinator though which the pumped water
   flows such that the electrodes are not energised whilst the pump is operated at the
   output having a non-zero time averaged value; and
   in response to a sensor
 5       increase the output of the pump, and
         energise the electrodes;
   wherein the output having a non-zero time averaged value is low enough that gases
   would accumulate if the electrodes were energised whilst the pump is operated at this
   output.
10 A water treatment system including the control system, the pump and the electrolytic
   chorinator is also provided.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a method of treating water of a swimming pool;
   the swimming pool including
         a pump for pumping water; and
15       an electrolytic chlorinator through which the pumped water flows;
   the method including
   operating the pump at an output having a non-zero time averaged value whilst the
   electrodes of the electrolytic chlorinator are not energised; and
   in response to a sensor
20       increasing the output of the pump, and
         energising the electrodes;
   wherein the output having a non-zero time averaged value is low enough that gases
   would accumulate if the electrodes were energised whilst the pump is operated at this
   output.

     P1148AU01
                                                 5
   The method preferably includes, after so increasing and energising, in response to the
   sensor
   reducing the output of the pump; and
   de-energising the electrodes.
 5 Also disclosed is a control system configured to
   control a swimming pool pump to, at the end of a period during which the pump is
   inactive, operate for a period at a treatment output to treat the swimming pool water; and
   in response to a sensor output vary at least one of the treatment output and a duration
   of the period during which the pump is operated at the treatment output;
10 wherein the sensor output is from a sensor, e.g. an ORP sensor, prior to a start of the
   period during which the pump is operated at the treatment output.
   The sensor output is preferably from a sensor at or before the start of the period during
   which the pump is inactive. Preferably, the system is configured to in response to the
   sensor output vary the treatment output.
15 The system may be configured to operate the pump in accordance with a repeating
   schedule, in which case at least a portion of the period during which the pump is inactive
   may be a lockout period defined in the repeating schedule.
   Preferably the period, during which the pump is operated to deliver the treatment output,
   has a fixed duration; alternatively it may end in response to the sensor.
20 A preferred form of the system is configured to
   after the period in which the pump is operated at the treatment output
         reduce the output of the pump to a reduced output having a non-zero time
         averaged value, and
         in response to the sensor increase the output of the pump.

     P1148AU01
                                                   6
   Optionally the system may be configured to, after so increasing the output of the pump,
   in response to the sensor reduce the output of the pump. The reduced output is
   preferably substantially continuous, and is most preferably substantially constant.
   The system may be configured to control an electrolytic chlorinator such that the
 5 chlorinator's electrodes are not energised whilst the pump is operating at its reduced
   output.
   Also disclosed is a control unit including
   a housing containing the control system,
   a power inlet for connecting the system to, to receive power from, an electrical power
10 supply;
   a power outlet for connecting the system to, to supply power to, electrodes of an or the
   electrolytic chlorinator to energise the electrodes;
   a data inlet for connecting the system to, to receive an output from, the sensor; and
   a data outlet for connecting the system to, to send control signals to, the pump.
15 Also disclosed is a swimming pool installation including
   at least one of the control systems and the control unit;
   a body of water in which a person may bathe,
   a defined flow path along which water flows
         from an inlet for receiving the water from the body of water
20       to an outlet for returning the water to the body of water;
   the pump; and
   the sensor;
   wherein
         the pump is arranged to drive water along the flow path;

     P1148AU01
                                                 7
         the sensor is along the flow path to sense at least one characteristic of the water
         flowing along the flow path; and
         the at least one of the system and the control unit is arranged to control the pump.
   Also disclosed is a method of treating water of a swimming pool;
 5 the swimming pool including a pump arranged to drive the water;
   the method including
   at the end of a period during which the pump is inactive, operating the pump for a period
   at a treatment output to treat the water; and
   in response to a sensor output varying at least one of the treatment output and a
10 duration of the period during which the pump is operated at the treatment output;
   wherein the sensor output is from a sensor prior to a start of the period during which the
   pump is operated at the treatment output.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Various exemplary features are illustrated.
15 Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a pool filtration system with an electrolytic chlorinator
   control system according to an embodiment of the invention;
   Figure 2 is a schematic, block diagram illustrating the electrolytic chlorinator control
   system used in the pool filtration system shown in Figure 1; and
   Figure 3 is a front view of a user interface on the electrolytic control system shown in
20 Figure 2.
   DESCRIPTION OF AN EMBODIMENT
   The following examples are intended to illustrate the scope of the invention and to
   enable reproduction and comparison. They are not intended to limit the scope of the
   disclosure in any way.

     P1148AU01
                                                    8
   Figure 1 illustrates a swimming pool filtration system 1. The system 1 includes a pump 2,
   a filter 3, a heater 4, and an electrolytic cell 5. Plumbing interconnects the pump, filter,
   heater, and cell and connects these elements with a swimming pool to define a fluid
   circuit. The pump 2 drives water about the fluid circuit. Water is drawn from the pool via
 5 an inlet in the form of a skimmer box 6 and then driven in series through the filter 3,
   heater 4, and cell 5 before being returned to the pool via an outlet 7. An ORP sensor 8
   may be mounted at any convenient location along the flow path from the inlet 6 to the
   outlet 7. In this example of the system the sensor 8 is mounted between the filter 3 and
   the heater 4.
10 The system 1 further includes a control unit 10 for controlling the pump 2 and the cell 5
   in a coordinated manner. As illustrated in Figure 2, the control unit 10 includes a "control
   system" or "logic arrangement" in the form of module 11 within housing 12 containing
   suitable electronics (not illustrated explicitly). The control unit further includes an
   incoming electrical connection (or "power inlet") in the form of a supply lead 14 for
15 drawing power from an electrical supply (not shown). Preferably the supply lead 14
   terminates in a simple plug cooperable with a conventional socket to draw power from a
   mains supply. In Australia such plugs typically include three pins (a positive, a negative
   and an earth).The lead 14 is adapted to receive and provide electrical power to the logic
   module 11. Alternatively, the incoming electrical connection component could be a
20 socket with electrical pins/prongs adapted to receive the female end of an extension
   cord.
   The control unit 10 further includes a second, output electrical connection (or "power
   outlet") in the form of a socket 18 adapted to connect the electronics of the control unit
   10 to the cell 5 so as to provide energising electrical power to the electrodes of the cell
25 5. For example, a lead 16 could terminate in a plug cooperable with the socket 18 to
   connect the control unit 10 and the cell 5.
   The control unit 10 also includes a data outlet 22 in the form of a socket adapted to send
   control signals to the pump 2. A lead 20 could terminate in a plug cooperable with the
   socket 22 to connect the control unit 10 and the pump 2.

     P1148AU01
                                                 9
   The control signal may take a variety of forms. Preferably a transformer (not shown) is
   interposed along the lead 20 and connected to the mains supply to supply a voltage of
   24 volts to the lead 20, and the electronics of the module 10 receive this voltage and
   generate a signal by varying a milliamp current along the lead 20. Alternatively the
 5 electronics of the control unit 10 may supply a voltage to the lead 20. Indeed, power
   sufficient to power the pump 2 and data may be simultaneously transmitted along the
   line 20 in the manner of power line communication (PLC). The use of PLC could allow a
   conventional power socket to be both a power outlet and a data outlet. In a simple
   implementation of the invention, the lead 20 and the socket 22 may define multiple
10 conduction paths corresponding to separate speed windings within the pump motor, in
   which case the control signal would be the selective energisation of the conduction
   paths.
   In a preferred form of the invention the control unit 10 powers the pump 2 via a separate
   power lead 21.
15 A data inlet in the form of lead 23 connects the module 11 to the sensor 8.
   The control unit 10 includes logic module 11 for controlling the efficient operation of the
   pump 2 and of the cell 5, which logic module 11 could be implemented via hardware,
   software, or a combination of hardware and software. In the illustrated arrangement, the
   logic module 11 includes a timing arrangement to operate the pump and the cell in
20 accordance with a timetable 11 a. The control unit operates the pump and the cell in
   response to the sensor 8 (indicative of sanitiser concentration in the pool water) and
   optionally in response to other sensors such as sensor 15 located within the cell 5 (e.g.,
   right by the cell's positive and negative electrodes, as schematically illustrated) to
   provide an indication of sanitiser production levels in the cell 5. Preferably the timetable
25 is structured for an operating period in the vicinity of four hours each morning and each
   evening to treat the pool water before and after the sun is out. Sunlight tends to destroy
   pool sanitiser. Treating the water outside of daylight hours is more efficient because the
   sanitiser lasts longer to destroy more undesirable biological species.

     P1148AU01
                                                   10
   The described pump 2 incorporates an infinitely variable motor and a variable frequency
   drive (VFD). Optionally the VFD may be configured to deliver a plurality of discrete
   selectable outputs. Control signals from the control unit 10 tell the pump 2 at which
   output it should operate. The selectable outputs may include a low "detection" output
 5 merely sufficient for maintaining the accuracy of the sensor output, one or more outputs
   for effective filtration and chlorination, and one or more higher outputs for other
   operations such as operating a vacuum cleaning apparatus or more rapidly filtering and
   cleaning a cloudy pool.
   The control unit 10 preferably includes a user interface 24, illustrated in Figure 3, for
10 displaying information to and receiving input from a user. The interface 24 suitably
   includes:
       *   a programming area 26 for setting the operating timetable;
       e   a chlorine output control 28 which indicates the amount of chlorine being
           produced;
15     e   a user mode area 30 for controlling the pump and chlorinator, e.g. by selecting
           pre-set modes, e.g. a respective mode for pool and spa operation;
       *   a warning display 32 for warning a user if there is no flow or if there is insufficient
           salt in the pool.
   Via the interface 24, a user can set the on-time for the cell 5 and the speed at which the
20 pump is to operate while the cell is on (e.g. high, medium, or low) and then select the
   time at which the chlorinator and pump should turn off. The described variant of the
   invention allows for up to four operating periods per day to be scheduled in the
   timetable. The operating periods may have different durations and pump operating
   speeds. The control unit 10 is desirably mounted remotely from the pool to permit
25 convenient access to its user interface 24, although it is also contemplated that the logic
   module might be integrated with one of the pump 2 and the cell 5.
   Preferably the logic module is configured to deliver a low pump output for most of the
   day and to periodically throughout the day increase the output of the pump. Operating at

     P1148AU01
                                                  11
   a low output is energy efficient but carries the risk of voids of uncirculated, or poorly
   circulated, water in the pool. Periodically operating the pump at higher output desirably
   moves the water in these voids.
   It is desirable that the control unit be configured to de-energise the electrodes prior, say
 5 about five minutes prior, to deactivating the pump. This reduces the risk of sanitiser,
   such as chlorine, concentrations sitting in components of the pool water treatment
   system and in turn reduces the risk of accelerated corrosion of these components. In
   particular, gas heaters are susceptible to corrosion caused by accumulated sanitiser.
   In a preferred configuration the module 11 is pre-programmed with a schedule that
10 repeats on a daily basis, although it is also contemplated that the schedule might repeat
   on a weekly basis to deliver differing performance on Saturday and Sunday relative to
   the other days of the week. According to the preferred daily repeating schedule, there is
   an overnight lock out window, e.g. from 10:00pm to 8:00am, in which the pump is turned
   off so that neighbours are not annoyed by the sound of the pump during these hours. At
15 8:00am the pump is routinely activated at a default treatment level equivalent to about
   300 litres/minute.
   The output of the pump can be characterised in various possible ways. In a simple
   implementation the output of the pump is determined by its rotational speed, for example
   the pump may be operated at a constant rotational speed known to be equivalent to
20 about 300 litres/minute for a given system curve (although the system curve varies
   depending on the condition of the filter etc.). Alternatively, the pump may be controlled
   to deliver a constant flow rate or to consume a constant power, by way of example.
   Desirably this initial period of operation may have a fixed duration selected to
   adequately treat the pool water on a typical day. Typically there are two key measures of
25 treatment:
        1. a sufficient number of turns of the water to provide adequate mechanical filtration
           to remove unsightly organic material; and

     P1148AU01
                                                  12
       2. sufficient operation of the chlorinator to produce a quantity of sanitiser sufficient to
           address a typical input of undesirable biological species.
   By way of example an operating period of four hours (at 300 litres/minute) may be
   desirable in a 50,000 litre pool. This period of operation corresponds to about 1.5 turns.
 5 One turn per day is considered a minimum rate for effective filtration. In contrast to
   merely controlling the pump in response to an ORP sensor to achieve 2, by controlling
   the pump to operate for a treatment period, the treatment period can advantageously be
   set to ensure that 1 is achieved. Optionally the module 11 may be programmed, or
   otherwise configured, to ensure that a predetermined volume of water is pumped during
10 the treatment period.
   At the end of this initial treatment period the output of the pump is reduced to a much
   lower level, e.g. about 50 litres/minute or less and the chlorinator deactivated. At this
   flow rate the pump is operating very quietly and consuming very little power. Shaft power
   consumption varies in proportion to the cube of the flow rate. This flow rate is not
15 considered sufficient to provide effective mechanical filtration (or to prevent the
   accumulation of gases within the chlorinator if the chlorinator was active). This is not its
   purpose. Rather the continuous flow of water from the inlet 6 to the outlet 7 serves to
   maintain the accuracy of the sensor 8. Without this flow the sensor would provide a false
   reading, which reading would correspond to the ORP of the water within the flow path
20 which may materially differ from the water in the pool as the ORP of the water in the pool
   drops throughout the day.
   The sensing arrangement is also considered superior to simply mounting an ORP
   sensor within the body of the pool. An ORP sensor within the body of the pool may well
   similarly provide a false reading by being exposed to a "dead patch" of essentially static
25 water which may have a materially different ORP to the bulk of the water within the pool.
   By operating the pump at a reduced output to move water over the ORP sensor a better
   ongoing indication of the ORP of the bulk of the pool water is obtained.
   Likewise, operating the pump at the treatment output for a morning treatment period
   serves to better stir the pool relative to merely operating in response to an ORP sensor.

     P1148AU01
                                                  13
   This better stirring eliminates (or at least reduces) dead spots and stratification in the
   pool water, resulting in better mechanical filtration and more homogenous pool water.
   Improving the homogeneity of the pool water leads to a better indication, from the ORP
   sensor, of the ORP of the bulk of the pool water.
 5 In the described exemplary systems the reduced pump output is substantially constant
   (e.g. constant RPM, flow rate or power consumption), although it is also contemplated
   that the reduced output may be achieved by periodically operating the pump. For
   example, the reduced output of described method could be achieved using a single
   speed pump by operating that pump at a reduced duty cycle (e.g. operating for one
10 minute out of every 10 minutes).
   Providing a more accurate ongoing indication of ORP allows for a more timely and
   appropriate reaction to changes in the ORP. By way of example if at some point during
   the day a pool is occupied by a large number of urinating infants and their pets the ORP
   will drop dramatically. According to existing approaches in which the pump is operated
15 at a fixed rate and for a fixed period each day it may take a few days for the treatment
   system to restore the ORP to a satisfactory level. During this time the pool may be less
   healthy than is desirable.
   According to preferred implementations of the described method, the ongoing flow of
   water over the ORP sensor allows for that sensor to detect such as increase in the
20 introduction of biological species and to activate the treatment system accordingly. The
   treatment system is activated by increasing the output of the pump, e.g. to the same
   output as in the morning treatment period, and by energising the electrodes of the
   electrolytic chlorinator.
   During the latter portions of the day after the treatment system has been so activated, it
25 is preferred that the treatment system be configured to be stood down, for example
   returning to the same reduced output that would customarily follow the treatment period,
   in response to the ORP sensor reading an ORP above a predetermined threshold set to
   correspond with a satisfactory concentration of sanitiser.

     P1148AU01
                                                  14
   Pools are often heavily used in the evening when their owners' families return from work
   and school. The additional biological loading on the pool at this time presents an
   additional challenge in that despite this loading being detected and the treatment system
   activated manually by a diligent pool attendant or activated in accordance with the
 5 above method, the treatment system may not be able to adequately address this
   additional biological loading by the 10:00pm lockout.
   To address this challenge, preferred implementations of the described system vary the
   output of the pump during the 8:00am morning treatment period in response to the
   sensed ORP level at 10:00pm the night before. In a simple implementation of this
10 concept, if the ORP at 10:00pm is below a selected threshold that fact may be stored as
   a simple one bit ("true or false") value, then at 8:00am the next morning the pump
   operated at a higher output in response to that fact. Alternatively the value of the ORP
   sensor may be stored and the increased pump output determined as a function of that
   value.
15 Instead of or in addition to vary pump output during the morning treatment session, the
   duration of the morning treatment session may be varied.
   Whilst systems incorporating ORP sensors have been described, other types of sensors
   are possible. By way of example sensors may be arranged to read pH and/or chlorine
   levels.
20 It will be appreciated that various modifications to and departures from the exemplary
   disclosed embodiments will occur to those having skill in the art. What is deemed to be
   protected is set forth in the following claims.

     P1148AU01
                                                  15
   CLAIMS
   1.    A swimming pool installation including
   a body of water in which a person may bathe,
   a defined flow path along which water flows
 5       from an inlet for receiving the water from the body of water
         to an outlet for returning the water to the body of water;
   a pump arranged to drive the water along the flow path;
   a sensor along the flow path to sense at least one characteristic of the water flowing
   along the flow path; and
10 a control system configured to
         operate the pump at an output having a non-zero time averaged value; and
         in response to the sensor increase the output of the pump.
   2.    The installation of claim 1 including an electrolytic chlorinator along the flow path to
   treat the water flowing along the flow path.
15 3.    The installation of claim 2 wherein the system is configured to
         de-energise electrodes of the electrolytic chlorinator such that the electrodes are
         not energised whilst the pump is operated at the output having a non-zero time
         averaged value; and
         energise the electrodes when so increasing the output of the pump in response to
20       the sensor.
   4.    The installation of claim 3 wherein the output having a non-zero time averaged
   value is low enough that gases would accumulate if the electrodes were energised
   whilst the pump is operated at this output.
   5.    The installation of claim 2, 3 or 4 including

     P1148AU01
                                                   16
   a control unit for controlling the electrolytic cell;
   the control unit including
          a housing containing the system,
          a power inlet for connecting the system to, to receive power from, an electrical
 5        power supply;
          a power outlet for connecting the system to, to supply power to, electrodes of the
          cell;
          a data inlet for connecting the system to, to receive an output from, the sensor; and
          a data outlet for connecting the system to, to send control signals to, the pump.
10 6.     The installation of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the control system is configured
   to operate the pump for a period at a treatment output to treat the swimming pool water
   then reduce the output of the pump to so operate the pump at an output having a non
   zero time averaged value.
   7.     The installation of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the control system is configured
15 to, after so increasing the output of the pump, in response to the sensor reduce the
   output of the pump.
   8.     The installation of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the output having a non-zero
   time averaged value is substantially continuous.
   9.     The installation of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the output having a non-zero
20 time averaged value is substantially constant.
   10.    The installation of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the sensor is an ORP sensor.
   11.    A control system configured to
   control a swimming pool pump to operate the pump at an output having a non-zero time
   averaged value;

     P1148AU01
                                                  17
   de-energise electrodes of an electrolytic chlorinator though which the pumped water
   flows such that the electrodes are not energised whilst the pump is operated at the
   output having a non-zero time averaged value; and
   in response to a sensor
 5       increase the output of the pump, and
         energise the electrodes;
   wherein the output having a non-zero time averaged value is low enough that gases
   would accumulate if the electrodes were energised whilst the pump is operated at this
   output.
10 12.   The system of claim 11 wherein the control system is configured to operate the
   pump for a period at a treatment output to treat the swimming pool water then reduce
   the output of the pump to so operate the pump at the output having a non-zero time
   averaged value.
   13.   The system of claim 11 or 12 wherein the control system is configured to, after so
15 increasing the output of the pump, in response to the sensor reduce the output of the
   pump.
   14.   The system of claim 11, 12 or 13 wherein the output having a non-zero time
   averaged value is substantially continuous.
   15.   The system of any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the output having a non-zero
20 time averaged value is substantially constant.
   16.   The system of any one of claims 11 to 15 wherein the sensor is an ORP sensor.
   17.   A control unit for controlling an electrolytic cell;
   the control unit including
         a housing containing the system of any one of claims 11 to 16;

     P1148AU01
                                                 18
         a power inlet for connecting the system to, to receive power from, an electrical
         power supply;
         a power outlet for connecting the system to, to supply power to, electrodes of the
         cell;
 5       a data inlet for connecting the system to, to receive an output from, the sensor; and
         a data outlet for connecting the system to, to send control signals to, the pump.
   18.   A water treatment system including
   at least one of the system of any one of claims 11 to 16 and the control unit of claim 17;
   the pump; and
10 the electrolytic chlorinator.
   19.   A method of treating water of a swimming pool;
   the swimming pool including
         a pump for pumping water; and
         an electrolytic chlorinator through which the pumped water flows;
15 the method including
   operating the pump at an output having a non-zero time averaged value whilst the
   electrodes of the electrolytic chlorinator are not energised; and
   in response to a sensor
         increasing the output of the pump, and
20       energising the electrodes;
   wherein the output having a non-zero time averaged value is low enough that gases
   would accumulate if the electrodes were energised whilst the pump is operated at this
   output.

     P1148AU01
                                               19
   20.   The method of claim 19 including operating the pump for a period at a treatment
   output to treat the swimming pool water then reducing the output of the pump to so
   operate the pump at the output having a non-zero time averaged value.
   21.   The method of claim 19 or 20 further including, after so increasing and energising,
 5 in response to the sensor
   reducing the output of the pump; and
   de-energising the electrodes.
   22.   The method of any one of claims 19 to 21 wherein the output having a non-zero
   time averaged value is substantially continuous.
10 23.   The method of any one of claims 19 to 21 wherein the output having a non-zero
   time averaged value is substantially constant.
   24.   The method of any one of claims 19 to 23 wherein the sensor is an ORP sensor.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
