                                 ABSTRACT
Rapid increase in energy demand is one of the major challenges for the
economic development of a country. There are numerous ways of power
generation which are mainly two sources based: renewable and non
renewable. The conventional renewable energy based generation
technologies are solar PV and wind energy generation. This invention is
based on a non-conventional renewable energy generation technology
known as footsteps waste energy harvesting system using hydro
generators. Walking is one of the most common forms of activity
performed by an individual throughout the globe by which a person losses
energy in the form of vibration, sound and pressure. This waste energy
(kinetic energy) can be converted into useable source of electrical energy.
Few devices and systems have been used and under investigation by
various researches to harvest this form of energy but unfortunately most of
those devices are either expensive or inefficient. In this work a novel
concept of converting kinetic energy to electrical energy through circulated
fluid/liquid/water flow has been introduced for footsteps waste energy
harvesting system. In order to obtain optimum performance, the system
has been designed on two tiles structure suitable for installation at place
where frequent human movements are available. A single unit of this
system consists of two fluid/liquid/water bags connected through flow
control mechanisms including unidirectional valves and mini hydro
generators. It also comprises of energy storage unit or battery to store the
energy. Battery charging and discharging system using a charge control
circuit has been implemented. Finally, the implementation of such system
can change the power generation techniques available for low powered
devices.

                                       AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                  INOVATION PATENT
         FOOT STEPS WASTE ENERGY HARVESTING SYSTEM USING HYDRO GENERATOR
        The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it Known to me.

                                          1
    FOOT STEPS WASTE ENERGY HARVESTING SYSTEM USING HYDRO GENERATOR
Depending on fossil fuel for power is becoming expensive and also have negative
impacts on the environment. It gives out gases which polluting our surroundings in
the process of burning this fossil fuel. In respond to this, different renewable
energy sources or solutions have been evolved over the past years to reduce the
disadvantages and negative impacts on environment when relying on fossil fuel.
Mechanical waste energies usually can be harvested by using vibration-to
electricity conversion and considered one of the renewable energy sources. The
most distinguished characteristic of this kind of waste energy harvesting is initially
identified for low power generations. Therefore, one of the targeted applications
is to power small electronic devices but not limited due to the recent technological
improvement. Vibration-to-electricity conversion can be realized through three
basic mechanisms, including electromagnetic, electrostatic, and piezoelectric
transd uctions.
One of those renewable energy solutions is converting the energy from human
footsteps which can be stored and used to power other devices that required less
power input. This solution is at its best when the device to convert energy from
footsteps is installed in places that usually crowded. People walk up to 150 million
footsteps in their lifetime, and we can convert the energy from every single person
walking at a busy place into a meaningful amount of power. Footfall harvesting
technology -- a deflecting pad covered with the type of soft ground surface
commonly found in playgrounds - can produce up to 7 watts of energy with each
step.
The proposed design is a unique and innovative method of converting kinetic
energy to electrical energy through fluid (i.e. water) circulation due to the
pressure exerted from the human footsteps. The weight of the people (as
pressure) is used to circulate the fluid through a circular pipe connected with a
hydro generator to harvest energy. This is accomplished by using the energy in the
flowing fluid to propel the blades of a micro hydro generator which as a
consequence produces electricity. The system is designed as tile structured
platform where the two bags (container made from flexible material) are placed in
it and filled with fluid (i.e. water). The water bags are connected with the mini
hydro generator and the unidirectional valve. The system works when the
pressure is applied to the tile platform that is when a person walks over it. The
water inside the bag will flow via the generator to the next bag. As the water flows

                                         2
through the generator consequently rotates the turbine thus producing the power
and used to charge the battery which could be utilized to operate low powered
devices such as lights. Its application ranges from places such as universities,
airports to cinemas and schools (population dense areas). The functionality of the
device includes powering city lights / street lights, Wi-Fi networks and supply of
electricity in cases of power outages.
The main aim of this innovative design is to harvest the energy from the waste
energy of footsteps. When viewed in perspective of sustainability and benefits,
the device has numerous advantages. One of the key advantages is that when
compared with other sources which require fuel input, energy is harvested with
the simple act of walking. Other advantages include the fact that the system is
eco-friendly and cost effective. Majority of the components of the device can be
found locally and whilst operation, there is no waste production.

                                       3
Brief Description Of The Drawings
The present teaching will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators with external parts and the co-acting
position of the flexible pipes, enclosures, generators, fluid / water valves
and top covers.
Figure 2 is a perspective view of a footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators (as shown in Figure 1) includes internal
main components and the co-acting position of the fluid/ water bags and
adopters.
Figure 3 is an exploded view of the footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators showing all components.
Figure 4 is an exploded view of a footsteps waste energy harvesting system
using hydro generators of Figure 1 includes internal parts and the co-acting
position of rechargeable battery and charge controllers.
Figure 5 is an exploded view of the mini hydro generator used for the
footsteps energy waste harvesting system showing generators blades and
electrical output point.
Detailed Description Of The Drawings
The application will now be described with reference to some exemplary
fluid based foot step energy generation unit which is provided to assist in
an understanding of the present teaching.
Referring to Figures 1 to 5 there is provided a footsteps waste energy
harvesting system using hydro generators which utilizes fluid/water flow
created from the pressure exerted from the human footsteps to generate
electricity. The basic principle of fluid flow is followed and exploration of
this concept is applied for the design of a footsteps energy harvesting
system in this teaching. Circulated water flow technique used to provide

                                     4
the rotation to the mini generator turbine to produce electricity and stored
to the energy storage system.
Referring now to Figure 1 there is provided a diagrammatic illustration of
the enclosure 3 to contain the other sensitive electronics components
protecting from the harsh environment. It is covered with two top paves
(covers) 5, 6. The enclosure 3 further comprising of flexible pipes 4, mini
hydro generators 2 and fluid / water valves 1.
Referring now to Figure 2 to Figure 4 are provided the diagrammatic
illustration of the internal components of the footsteps waste energy
harvesting system that includes two fluid/water bags 7 made up of butyl
rubber, rechargeable battery 10 and charge controllers 11. The said flexible
pipes 4 are used to connect the said bags through water valve 1 and mini
hydro generator 2. For the safety of the system two water bags, Styrofoam
8 are placed between the said bags 7 and the enclosure 3 tops (paves 5, 6)
are supported by four springs inside the corners of the enclosure. The said
enclosure 3 contains fluid/water bags 7 which are connected with the
flexible pipes 4 with adaptors 9.
Referring now to Figure 5 of the footsteps waste energy harvesting system
showing all components of hydro generators, namely turbine 12 and
electrical output port 13.
While the exemplary teaching will be described with reference to the
footsteps waste energy harvesting system using hydro generators, it will be
appreciated that this system 1 to 13 in accordance with the present
teaching, may be used with a variety of different dimensions and indeed
whole or part of individual components. It is not intended to limit the fluid
based foot step energy generation to any particular shape or size and
components materials.
The footsteps waste energy harvesting system using hydro generators as
described in the present application provides a low cost, renewable and
waste energy generation technique with compact characteristic and can be
used for energy generation on the foot path or any place where human
being will make a continuous movement.

                                       5
It will be understood that what has been described herein is exemplary of a
footsteps energy harvesting system using hydro generators. While the
present application has been described with reference to exemplary
arrangements, it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the
teaching of the present application to such arrangements as modifications
can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the
application.
Similarly the words comprises/comprising when used in the specification
are used to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
additional features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

                                          6
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A footsteps waste energy harvesting system in accordance with this invention
comprises two enclosures (i.e. containers) assembly made of a tile structure and
also includes two mini hydro generators with two unidirectional valves.
2. Said enclosures of the footsteps waste energy harvesting system using hydro
generators as claimed in claim 1 further comprise a top cover using spring loaded
pave of different materials (i.e. Wood, Steel, Rubber, sheet metal).
3. The footsteps waste energy harvesting system further comprising a set of fluid/
water containers/bags in one in each enclosure as claimed in claim 1 and 2.
4. The fluid (i.e. water) containers/bags of the footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators as claimed in claim 3 is formed using flexible
rubber (i.e. Butyl rubber).
5. The fluid (i.e. water) containers/bags of the footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators as claimed in claim 3 where the footsteps energy
absorber connected with flexible pipe for the fluid flow through the generators as
claimed in 1.
6. The fluid (i.e. water) containers/bags of the footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators as claimed in any preceding claim, further
comprising two unidirectional valves to control the liquid flow.
7. The fluid (i.e. water) containers/bags of the footsteps waste energy harvesting
system using hydro generators as claimed in any preceding claim, further
comprising a charge controllers and a set of rechargeable battery for energy
storage.
8. The said top of the footsteps waste energy harvesting system as claimed in
claim 1 and 2; thereof the cover can be removed to allow the enclosures to be
access equipment as claimed in any preceding claim.

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig 2   Fig 1
                                  Drawings

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            11
       10
Fig4             Fig 3
            9

        <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
           12
Fig 5
                     13

