                                             ABSTRACT
      The present utility model provides a coffee cup holder for a shopping trolley, which
shopping trolley is provided with a horizontal trolley handle. The coffee cup holder comprises
a cup holding portion and a connecting portion. The cup holding portion is open both at the
top and at the bottom for carrying a drink cup. The connecting portion is fixedly connected to
a side wall of the cup holding portion. The connecting portion is suited to be fixed to the
trolley handle such that the cup holding portion can carry the drink cup. The coffee cup
holder proposed in the present utility model is suited to be fixed to a trolley handle of a
shopping trolley, simple in the overall structure and easy to use.

               I I NF
                              100
                                  110
  120
170
                                      111
121
      123
                          140
                      130
          Fig.      1

                                                 1
                                  COFFEE CUP HOLDER
                                          Technical Field
      The present utility model relates to shopping devices used in shopping centres such as
supermarkets or shopping malls, more particularly to a coffee cup holder, which is suited for
shopping trolleys used in various shopping malls.
                                          Background Art
      At present, the existing shopping trolley used in the shopping mall is a shopping trolley
substantially formed by a base frame, a cargo basket, a rear plate with or without a child seat
plate, a trolley handle, etc. Some shopping trolleys are further provided with trolley handle
bars having special functions which all adopt the integral forming technology. The trolley
handle bar as a whole is made of rigid plastic, and is provided with map display or a space for
carrying a drink cup. However, since the whole trolley handle bar is made of plastic, it is
damage-prone in actual use. Moreover, the whole trolley handle bar has a high manufacturing
cost and has a large mass production requirement. If a coffee cup holder space is to be added
to the shopping trolley of the original type, the whole trolley handle bar is required to be
replaced.
                            SUMMARY OF THE UTILITY MODEL
      With regard to the above-mentioned problems in the prior art, the present utility model
proposes a coffee cup holder, which has the function of carrying a drink cup. The coffee cup
holder is suited to be fixed to a trolley handle of a shopping trolley, has a simple overall
structure and is easy to install and replace.
          Specifically, the present utility model proposes a coffee cup holder for a shopping
trolley, which shopping trolley is provided with a horizontal trolley handle. The coffee cup
holder comprises a cup holding portion and a connecting portion, the cup holding portion is
open both at the top and at the bottom for carrying a drink cup, the connecting portion is
fixedly connected to a side wall of the cup holding portion, and the connecting portion is
suited to be fixed to the trolley handle such that the cup holding portion can carry the drink
cup.
          According to an embodiment of the present utility model, the cup holding portion is

                                                2
of an inverted circular truncated cone. The cup holding portion and the connecting portion are
integrally formed.
          According to an embodiment of the present utility model, the connecting portion has
an engagement structure, and the connecting portion can engage with the trolley handle.
          According to an embodiment of the present utility model, the engagement structure
comprises a fastener extending downwards, and the fastener can cooperate with the trolley
handle such that the fastener can engage with the trolley handle.
          According to an embodiment of the present utility model, the coffee cup holder
further comprises a screw and a nut. A mounting hole is provided on the fastener. A via hole
is provided on the trolley handle. By passing the screw through the mounting hole and the via
hole, the nut cooperates with the screw to fix the connecting portion to the trolley handle.
          According to an embodiment of the present utility model, the shopping trolley
further comprises a base frame and a shopping basket provided on the base frame. Castors are
provided at the bottom of the base frame. The trolley handle comprises a handle bar and two
L-shaped grab sleeves sheathed at two ends of the handle bar. The L-shaped grab sleeves are
fixed to the shopping basket. The connecting portion is suited to be fixed to the handle bar.
          According to an embodiment of the present utility model, the cup holding portion is
positioned between the handle bar and the shopping basket.
          The coffee cup holder provided by the present utility model is suited to be mounted
to a trolley handle of a shopping trolley used in various shopping malls, and is easy to use
and replace.
          It should be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
detailed description of the present utility model are exemplary and illustrative, and are
intended to provide further explanation for the present utility model as claimed in the claims.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further understanding of
the present utility model and are incorporated in and constitute a part of the present
application, illustrate embodiments of the present utility model and together with the
description serve to explain the principle of the present utility model. In the accompanying
drawings:
          Fig. 1 shows a structural schematic view of an embodiment of the present utility

                                                  3
model;
           Fig. 2 shows a structural schematic view of a coffee cup holder and a trolley handle
of an embodiment of the present utility model;
           Fig. 3 is an assembled schematic view of Fig. 2; and
           Fig. 4 shows a view of an embodiment of the present utility model in an operation
state.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Embodiments of the present utility model will now be described in detail with
reference to the accompanying drawings. Reference now will be made in detail to preferred
embodiments of the present utility model, examples of which are illustrated in the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numerals in all the figures denote the same or
similar parts wherever possible. Furthermore, although the terms used in the present utility
model are selected from well-known common terms, some of the terms mentioned in the
description of the present utility model may be selected by the applicant according to his or
her judgement, and the detailed meaning thereof is described in the relevant section described
herein. Furthermore, the present utility model must be understood, not simply by the actual
terms used but also by the meanings encompassed by each term.
           Fig. 1 shows a structural schematic view of an embodiment of the present utility
model. Fig. 2 shows a structural schematic view of a coffee cup holder and a trolley handle of
an embodiment of the present utility model. Fig. 3 is an assembled schematic view of Fig. 2.
As shown in the figures, a coffee cup holder 100 for a shopping trolley comprises a cup
holding portion 110 and a connecting portion 120. The cup holding portion 110 is open both
at the top and at the bottom and forms a round side wall 111 for carrying a drink cup. In one
embodiment, the cup holding portion 110 is of an inverted circular truncated cone. The area
of the top surface of the circular truncated cone is greater than the area of the bottom surface,
that is, the radius of the top surface of the circular truncated cone is greater than the radius of
the bottom surface. The drink cup such as a coffee cup is suited to be placed into the cup
holding portion 110, so that an outer wall of the drink cup is attached to the inner side of the
side wall 111 of the cup holding portion 110, and the round side wall 111 can hold up the
drink cup. The connecting portion 120 is fixedly connected to the side wall 111 of the cup
holding portion 110. In one embodiment, the cup holding portion 110 and the connecting

                                               4
portion 120 are integrally formed. The connecting portion 120 is suited to be fixed to a trolley
handle 210 of the shopping trolley so that the cup holding portion 110 can carry the drink cup,
and the drink cup will not tilt randomly and spill beverage therein. Conventionally, the trolley
handle 210 is horizontally provided on the shopping trolley, and the cup holding portion 110
cooperates to hold up the drink cup so as to facilitate access to the drink cup by a user at all
times while shopping.
          Preferably, the connecting portion 120 has an engagement structure, and the
connecting portion 120 can engage the trolley handle 210 via the engagement structure.
Further preferably, the engagement structure comprises a fastener 121 extending downwards.
During assembly, the fastener 121 engages downwards with the trolley handle 210. The
fastener 121 can match with and be fixed to the trolley handle 210 so that the axis of the cup
holding portion 110 is substantially perpendicular to the horizontal ground.
          Further, the coffee cup holder 100 further comprises a screw 130 and a nut 140. A
mounting hole 122 is provided on the fastener 121. A via hole 211 is provided on the trolley
handle 210. According to the coffee cup holder 100, by passing the screw 130 through the
mounting hole 122 and the via hole 211, the nut 140 cooperates with the screw 130 to fix the
connecting portion 120 to the trolley handle 210. With reference to figure 1, the connecting
portion 120 can be further provided with a mounting recess 123, and the mounting hole 122
is located at the bottom of the mounting recess 123. The nut 140 and the head of the screw
130 are suited to be assembled in the mounting recess 123, so as to facilitate the positioning
of the nut 140 and the screw 130 in the mounting process. In addition, the nut 140 and the
screw 130 are hidden in the mounting recess 123 without protruding out of a surface of the
connecting portion 120, which improves the safety in use.
          Fig. 4 shows a view of an embodiment of the present utility model in an operation
state. A shopping trolley 200 comprises a base frame 220 and a shopping basket 230 provided
on the base frame 220. Casters 240 are provided at the bottom of the base frame 220. As
shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, the trolley handle 210 comprises a handle bar 212 and two
L-shaped grab sleeves 213 sheathed at two ends of the handle bar 212. The L-shaped grab
sleeves 213 are fixed to the shopping basket 230, and the connecting portion 120 is suited to
be fixed to the handle bar 212, so that the whole coffee cup holder 100 can be conveniently
mounted to the handle bar 212 of the trolley handle 210. With reference to Fig. 4, the drink
cup 300 is placed into the cup holding portion 110 of the coffee cup holder 100. Since the cup
holding portion 110 is of an inverted circular truncated cone, it is suitable for various drink

                                                5
cups, which is user-friendly.
          Preferably, the cup holding portion 110 is positioned between the handle bar 212 and
the shopping basket 230. According to such a design, the cup holding portion 110 neither
occupies use space of the shopping basket 230, nor affects the pushing of the shopping trolley
200 by the user, and the coffee cup holder 100 can present the comfort of the shopping trolley,
thereby improving user experience.
          The coffee cup holder provided by the present utility model has a simple overall
structure, which does not require to replace the trolley handle of the existing shopping trolley
and is easy to install and flexible to replace.
          It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that various modifications and
variations can be made to the aforementioned exemplary embodiments of the present utility
model without departing from the spirit and scope of the present utility model. The present
utility model is therefore intended to cover any modifications and variations of the present
utility model falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalent technical
solutions thereof.

                                               6
                                           CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
       1. A coffee cup holder for a shopping trolley, the shopping trolley being provided with
a horizontal trolley handle, characterized in that the coffee cup holder comprises a cup
holding portion and a connecting portion, the cup holding portion is open both at the top and
at the bottom for carrying a drink cup, the connecting portion is fixedly connected to a side
wall of the cup holding portion, and the connecting portion is suited to be fixed to the trolley
handle such that the cup holding portion can carry the drink cup.
          2.  The coffee cup holder of claim 1, characterized in that the cup holding portion is
in the shape of an inverted circular truncated cone, and the cup holding portion and the
connecting portion are integrally formed.
          3.  The coffee cup holder of claim 1, characterized in that the connecting portion
has an engagement structure, and the connecting portion can engage with the trolley handle.
          4.  The coffee cup holder of claim 3, characterized in that the engagement structure
comprises a fastener extending downwards, and the fastener can cooperate with the trolley
handle such that the fastener can engage with the trolley handle.
          5. The coffee cup holder of claim 4, characterized by further comprising a screw
and a nut, wherein a mounting hole is provided on the fastener, a via hole is provided on the
trolley handle, and by passing the screw through the mounting hole and the via hole, the nut
cooperates with the screw to fix the connecting portion to the trolley handle.
          6.  The coffee cup holder of claim 1, characterized in that the shopping trolley
further comprises a base frame and a shopping basket provided on the base frame, castors are
provided at the bottom of the base frame, the trolley handle comprises a handle bar and two
L-shaped grab sleeves sheathed at two ends of the handle bar, the L-shaped grab sleeves are

                                              7
fixed to the shopping basket, and the connecting portion is suited to be fixed to the handle
bar.
         7.  The coffee cup holder of claim 6, characterized in that the cup holding portion is
positioned between the handle bar and the shopping basket.

                             1/4
<removed-date>
                                                100
<removed-apn>
                                                      110
               120
              170
                                                            111
              121
                     123
                                          140
                                    130
                           Fig. 1

                                  2/4
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          210
                                          100
                                    120
              213
                                                111
                    212
                                Fig. 2

                                         3/4
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                210
                                                     100
                                         110
                                 120                       111
              213               122
                                                                 140
                                                     121
                    212
                                                     122
                                   211
                                               130
                                  Fig. 3

                                        4/4
<removed-date>
                                                      200
                                300
<removed-apn>
              213
                    212
                                                            230
                          110
                          120
                                                     220
                                               240
                                      Fig. 4

