                                            ABSTRACT
       A device may receive first information that identifies an input associated with a virtual
agent application executing on a user device. The virtual agent application may provide an
interface for a project involving a plurality of user devices. The device may determine, based
on the first information that identifies the input, a first response based on second information.
The device may determine, based on at least one of the first information that identifies the
input or the first response and without user input, a second response. The device may
provide, to the virtual agent application of the user device, fourth information that identifies
at least one of the first response or the second response.

                                           1/16
                                        0~       (I0
                                        0   !i)      m
         :0      00              814-4-         4
     4 Mz        zz                r-I     (2D L 0
                  l-                    (D           -0
                                   (D)           00D
LO     '
4
 c    O     I-   co 0)
 0
 ci)
                             Cl)     Cl                   cn       rI)
                                                             0         0    - L
                                                               -a->
                                     )4                                L) -
                                                                  (D-           -n a- a( )
            CI))
                                                       'n  >      C)
                            EE~
                        U,,
                       'a)
             C)C
            C))0
            V--

                                                1
         PLATFORM FOR SUPPORTING MULTIPLE VIRTUAL AGENT
                                      APPLICATIONS
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    A user device may include applications (e.g., "virtual agents") that provide
assistance to a user of the user device in performing particular actions, such as sending
messages, placing calls, providing recommendations, accessing content, or the like. A
virtual agent may perform the particular actions by interacting with other applications,
searching information that is local to the user device (e.g., stored by the user device), and/or
by delegating a request to another device (e.g., a web server).

                                                 2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that receive first information that identifies an input associated with a virtual agent
application executing on a user device, the virtual agent application providing an interface
for a project involving a plurality of user devices, determine, based on the first information
that identifies the input, a first response based on second information, determine, based on
at least one of the first information that identifies the input or the first response and without
user input, a second response, the second response being associated with third information,
the second information being associated with a first resource, and the third information being
associated with a second resource that is different than the first resource, and provide, to
the virtual agent application of the user device, fourth information that identifies at least one
of the first response or the second response.
[0003]       In another aspect, the present invention provides a method, including receiving,
by a device, first information that identifies an input, the input being associated with a virtual
agent application of a user device, identifying, by the device and based on the input, a set of
results, determining, by the device, a ranking of the set of results, providing, by the device
and to the user device, second information that identifies the ranking of the set of results,
receiving, by the device and based on providing the second information, third information
that identifies a user-defined ranking of the set of results, performing, by the device, a
technique to adjust one or more parameters associated with one or more functions based
on the third information and the second information, and applying, by the device, one or more
values associated with the one or more parameters based on the technique, the device to
determine additional rankings of additional sets of results based on applying the one or more
values.
[0004]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive
first information that identifies an input associated with a virtual agent application of a user
device, the virtual agent application providing an interface for a project involving a plurality

                                                 3
of user devices, determine, based on the first information that identifies the input, a first
response based on second information, determine, based on at least one of the first
information that identifies the input or the first response, a second response based on third
information, and provide, to the virtual agent application, fourth information based on at least
one of the first response or the second response, the virtual agent application to provide, via
an output component of the user device, the fourth information.

                                               4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]     Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation
described herein;
[0006]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0007]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0008]     Fig. 4 is a diagram of example functional modules of one or more devices of Fig.
2;
[0009]     Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process for providing multiple types of
responses to a virtual agent application based on an input;
[0010]     Figs. 6A-6E are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the example
process shown in Fig. 5;
[0011]     Figs. 7A and 7B are flow charts of an example process for implementing a machine
learning technique to improve information retrieval; and
[0012]     Figs. 8A-8C are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the example
process shown in Figs. 7A and 7B.

                                                 5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0013]     The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0014]     In some cases, a project (e.g., a software engineering project) may include
multiple parties (e.g., developers, subject matter experts, programmers, etc.) that may each
be associated with different roles and/or be associated with a different acumen. Additionally,
in some cases, parties associated with the project may fluctuate. That is, existing parties
may leave the project, new parties may join the project, etc. as the project evolves.
Implementations described herein enable an intelligence platform and/or virtual agent
applications to provide an interface between parties (e.g., users) associated with the project
and information associated with the project. In this way, users may utilize virtual agent
applications to receive information regarding the project, receive alerts regarding the project,
determine recommendations based on information associated with the project and/or other
projects, perform certain actions relating to the project, etc.
[0015]     Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein.     As shown in Fig. 1A, and by reference number 110, an intelligence
platform (e.g., a cloud computing device) may receive, from a user device (e.g., a mobile
phone), first information that identifies an input associated with a virtual agent application
that is executing on the user device. For example, as shown, the user device may detect an
utterance of the user (e.g., "How many test cases have been executed?").                 In some
implementations, the user device may perform automatic speech recognition (ASR) and/or
may identify a context (e.g., using a dialog management technique) associated with the input.
As an example, assume that a previous input identifies that the user is associated with a
particular project (e.g., a software engineering project), and/or that a particular version of
regression testing is taking place (e.g., a fifth iteration of regression testing). In this case,
the user device may provide the first information (e.g., a query) to the intelligence platform
requesting a status of the project and/or the regression test (e.g., how many test cases have
been executed).

                                                 6
[0016]      As shown by reference number 120, the intelligence platform may determine,
based on the first information that identifies the input, a first response based on second
information. For example, the intelligence platform may receive the first information (e.g.,
the query), and may identify second information (e.g., information associated with the
software engineering project). For example, as shown, the intelligence platform may identify
information (e.g., based on a data structure) that identifies particular test cases associated
with a particular regression test iteration (e.g., "Regression Test 5") and respective statuses
of the test cases (e.g., execution statuses). In some implementations, the first response may
include information that is determined based on the second information (e.g., an answer to
the query). As an example, assume that six test cases have been executed in association
with regression test five.      In this case, the first response may include information that
identifies the six test cases (e.g., the answer to the query is "6").
[0017]      As shown in Fig. 1B, and by reference number 130, the intelligence platform may
determine, based on the first information that identifies the input and/or the first response, a
second response based on third information. For example, the intelligence platform may
identify other projects and/or other regression test iterations based on the first information
(e.g., the query) and/or the first response (e.g., the amount of test cases that have been
executed). As an example, and as shown, the intelligence platform may identify another
regression test iteration (e.g., "Regression Test 4"), and may identify test cases that were
executed in association with the regression test iteration (e.g., test case 7, test case 8, test
case 9, etc.). Assume that the intelligence platform determined that test cases 7-9 have not
been executed in association with the current regression test iteration (e.g., "Regression Test
5"). In this case, the intelligence platform may determine a second response. For example,
the second response may include a recommendation, such as a recommendation that test
cases 7-9 be executed (e.g., to ensure adequate test coverage, to minimize potential errors
in the software, etc.).
[0018]      As shown by reference number 140, the intelligence platform may provide, to the
virtual agent application of the user device, fourth information based on the first response
and/or the second response.           For example, the user device may receive the fourth
information, and may provide one or more outputs based on the fourth information. As

                                                 7
shown, the user device (e.g., a text-to-speech module) may provide the fourth information
via an output mechanism, such as a speaker. For example, the user device may provide an
audible output (e.g., "Six test cases have been executed, would you like to select other test
cases for execution?"). As further shown in Fig. 1B, the user device may provide, for display
via a user interface, information that identifies particular test cases that may be available for
execution (e.g., test cases 7-9). For example, the user device may provide the information
for display based on the recommendation of the intelligence platform (e.g., that test cases 7
9 be executed).       In this way, a user may interact with the virtual agent application to
determine project information, receive recommendations, identify particular statuses of a
project, or the like.
[0019]      While implementations described herein are described in association with
particular projects, domains, and/or information (e.g., related to software engineering),
implementations described herein may apply to other types of projects, domains, and/or
other types of information.       For example, implementations described herein may be
applicable to other types of virtual agent applications and/or intelligence platforms that may
provide functionality in association with other types of information (e.g., weather information,
financial information, sports information, business information, or the like).
[0020]      Implementations described herein enable an intelligence platform to receive
information that identifies an input (e.g., a user query, a user command, etc.) associated with
a virtual agent application that is executing on a user device, determine one or more
responses based on particular information (e.g., stored information, information associated
with external information sources, etc.), and provide, to the virtual agent application of the
user device, information that identifies the one or more responses.
[0021]      Additionally, implementations described herein enable the intelligence platform to
receive information that identifies an input (e.g., a user query), determine a particular
response (e.g., a recommendation), receive information that identifies feedback (e.g., user
feedback) regarding the particular response, and implement a technique (e.g., a machine
learning technique) based on the information that identifies the feedback.          In this way,
implementations described herein enable the intelligence platform to receive additional

                                               8
information (e.g., additional queries) and determine additional responses based on
implementing the technique. In this way, the intelligence platform may provide, to the user
device, information that more accurately matches a user preference, that is more accurate,
etc. than as compared to situations where the technique was not implemented. In this way,
implementations described herein may reduce an amount of additional requests (e.g.,
requests for other information, updated information, etc.) received by the user device and/or
provided to the intelligence platform, thereby conserving processor and/or memory
resources of the user device and/or the intelligence platform, and/or conserving network
resources.
[0022]     As indicated above, Figs. 1A and 1B are provided merely as an example. Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A and
1B.
[0023]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 210 (hereinafter referred to collectively as "user devices
210," and individually as "user device 210"), an intelligence platform 220, one or more
external information sources 230 (hereinafter referred to collectively as "external information
sources 230," and individually as "external information source 230"), a database device 240,
and a network 250. Devices of environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections,
wireless connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0024]     User device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with intelligence platform 220.
For example, user device 210 may include a computing device, such as a desktop computer,
a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a server device, a mobile phone
(e.g., a smart phone or a radiotelephone), a wearable communication device (e.g., a smart
wristwatch, an activity band, or a pair of smart eyeglasses), a gaming device, or a similar
type of device.
[0025]     Intelligence platform 220 includes one or more devices capable of receiving
information that identifies an input associated with a virtual agent application of user device

                                               9
210, determining multiple types of responses based on the input, and providing, to user
device 210, a response based on the multiple types of responses, as described elsewhere
herein. In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may be designed to be modular
such that certain software components can be swapped in or out depending on a particular
need.    As such, intelligence platform 220 may be easily and/or quickly reconfigured for
different uses.
[0026]     In some implementations, as shown, intelligence platform 220 may be hosted in
cloud computing environment 222.         Notably, while implementations described herein
describe intelligence platform 220 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 222, in
some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may not be cloud-based (i.e., may be
implemented outside of a cloud computing environment) or may be partially cloud-based.
[0027]     Cloud computing environment 222 includes an environment that hosts intelligence
platform 220. Cloud computing environment 222 may provide computation, software, data
access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user (e.g., user device 210) knowledge
of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that hosts intelligence
platform 220.     As shown, cloud computing environment 222 may include a group of
computing resources 224 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 224" and
individually as "computing resource 224").
[0028]     Computing resource 224 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or other types of computation and/or communication devices. In
some implementations, computing resource 224 may host intelligence platform 220. The
cloud resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 224,
storage devices provided in computing resource 224, data transfer devices provided by
computing resource 224, etc.      In some implementations, computing resource 224 may
communicate with other computing resources 224 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0029]     As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 224 includes a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 224-1, one or more virtual machines

                                                10
("VMs") 224-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 224-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 224-4,
or the like.
[0030]       Application 224-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by client device 205. Application 224-1 may eliminate a need to install and
execute the software applications on client device 205. For example, application 224-1 may
include software associated with intelligence platform 220 and/or any other software capable
of being provided via cloud computing environment 222.           In some implementations, one
application 224-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications 224
1, via virtual machine 224-2.
[0031]       Virtual machine 224-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 224-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 224-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 224-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., client device 205), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 222, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0032]       Virtualized storage 224-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 224. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are

                                              11
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0033]     Hypervisor 224-4 may provide hardware virtualization techniques that allow
multiple operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a
host computer, such as computing resource 224. Hypervisor 224-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0034]     External information source 230 includes one or more devices, accessible through
network 250, that are sources of information that may be used by intelligence platform 220.
For example, external information source 230 may include a server that includes particular
information for use by intelligence platform 220 and/or user device 210.       For example,
external information source 230 may include a server or a group of servers (e.g., a cloud
based server, an application device, a content server, a host server, a web server, a
database server, etc.), a desktop computer, or a similar device.
[0035]     Database device 240 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, storing,
and/or providing information for use by intelligence platform 220. For example, database
device 240 may include a server or a group of servers. In some implementations, database
device 240 may provide, to intelligence platform 220, information and/or resources.
[0036]     Network 250 may include one or more wired and/or wireless networks.           For
example, network 250 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE)
network, a third generation (3G) network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network,
etc.), a public land mobile network (PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network
(WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN)), a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet,
a fiber optic-based network, or the like, and/or a combination of these or other types of
networks.

                                             12
[0037]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[0038]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 210, intelligence platform 220, external information source 230,
and/or database device 240.       In some implementations, user device 210, intelligence
platform 220, external information source 230, and/or database device 240 may include one
or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown in Fig. 3,
device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage component
340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a communication interface
370.
[0039]     Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication                among    the
components of device 300.       Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.

                                                 13
[0040]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0041]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).            Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator). Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0042]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0043]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

                                               14
[0044]      Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0045]      The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0046]      Fig. 4 is a diagram of example functional modules of one or more devices 400.
Devices 400 may correspond to user device 210 and/or intelligence platform 220. In some
implementations, user device 210 and/or intelligence platform 220 may include one or more
devices 400 and/or one or more functional modules of device 400. As shown in Fig. 4,
devices 400 may include an automatic speech recognition (ASR) module 405, a text-to
speech (TTS) module 410, a dialog management module 415, a command identification
module 420, an alert generation module 425, a question analysis module 430, a
recommendation module 435, and/or a messaging module 440. In some implementations,
ASR module 405, TTS module 410, dialog management module 415, and/or command
identification module 435 may be implemented within user device 210. Additionally, alert
generation module 425, question analysis module 430, recommendation module 435, and/or
messaging module 440 may be implemented within intelligence platform 220.
[0047]      ASR module 405 includes a module that receives an input (e.g., an audio input
received via input component 350, such as a microphone) and provides information to an
application based on the input. In some implementations, ASR module 405 may identify

                                                 15
speech (e.g., a conversation) using one or more models (e.g., natural language
understanding (NLU) models, vocabulary models, grammar models, context models, etc.),
and may infer an intent of the conversation based on the one or more models. Additionally,
or alternatively, ASR module 405 may receive information (e.g., training data) associated
with a particular domain (e.g., software engineering), and may implement a technique (e.g.,
a machine learning technique) to generate the one or more models. In this way, ASR module
405 may receive information that identifies speech (e.g., an utterance of a user), may identify
particular terms (e.g., related to a particular domain, such as software engineering), and may
infer an intent and/or determine context of the speech based on one or more models (e.g.,
models that were trained using domain-specific terms, etc.).
[0048]      TTS module 410 includes a module that may receive information (e.g., text
information) and may generate an audio output (e.g., speech to be output via output
component 360, or the like). In some implementations, TTS module 410 may implement one
or more models (e.g., natural language generation (NLG) models, etc.) when generating
audio output.
[0049]      Dialog management module 415 includes a module that manages a state of a
dialog between a device (e.g., user device 210) and a user. In some implementations, dialog
management module 415 may receive one or more inputs via ASR module 405, may
maintain state variables based on the one or more inputs (e.g., dialog history, such as
conversation history, etc.), may perform grounding, or the like. In some implementations,
dialog management module 415 may determine a context of dialog (e.g., conversation), may
prompt the user for additional information (e.g., may generate an output to be provided to
the user), may determine dialog intent, and/or may provide information to other devices
and/or modules.
[0050]      Command identification module 420 includes a module that receives information
identifying an input (e.g., a user command, such as a command to access a particular
application), and provides particular information, for display, based on the information
identifying the input.    For example, command identification module 420 may identify a
particular application (e.g., a web-application, or the like), and may cause a device (e.g., user

                                               16
device 210) to provide information for display (e.g., cause a web-browsing application of user
device 210 to access a particular web-application, or the like).
[0051]     Alert generation module 425 includes a module that may analyze information (e.g.,
parameters associated with project information, as described elsewhere herein), may
determine that a parameter associated with the information satisfies a threshold, and may
determine a response (e.g., an alert) that identifies that the parameter satisfied the threshold.
[0052]     Question analysis module 430 includes a module that may receive information
identifying an input (e.g., a query), may determine a response (e.g., an answer), and may
provide information that identifies the response (e.g., the answer). In some implementations,
question analysis module 430 may determine a response based on analyzing stored
information, based on requesting particular information from an information source (e.g.,
external information source 230, database device 240, or the like), based on implementing
a technique (e.g., a machine learning technique, or the like), based on information received
via one or more virtual agent applications executing on one or more user devices 210, or the
like.
[0053]     Recommendation module 435 includes a module that may analyze information
(e.g., stored information, etc.), and may determine a response (e.g., a recommendation)
based on analyzing the information. In some implementations, recommendation module 435
may determine a recommendation based on stored information, based on a model, or the
like.
[0054]     Messaging module 440 includes a module that may receive information that
identifies an input associated with a virtual agent application (e.g., a query, a command,
feedback, a prompt, etc.), may provide the information to one or more modules, may receive
responses from one or more modules, and/or may provide, to the virtual agent application,
information that identifies the responses.
[0055]     In some implementations, one or more modules of Fig. 4 may use machine
learning techniques to analyze data (e.g., training data, such as historical data, etc.) and
create models. The machine learning techniques may include, for example, supervised

                                                17
and/or unsupervised techniques, such as artificial networks, case-based reasoning,
Bayesian statistics, learning automata, Hidden Markov Modeling, linear classifiers, quadratic
classifiers, decision trees, association rule learning, or the like.
[0056]       In some implementations, one or more modules of Fig. 4 may use another kind of
computer-implemented technique, such as artificial intelligence, machine perception, or
computer vision, to analyze data and determine responses. In some implementations, one
or more modules may create a model using information associated with a first project and/or
a first virtual agent application, and may use the model in association with a second project
and/or a second virtual agent application.
[0057]       In some implementations, one or more modules of Fig. 4 may receive information
that identifies user feedback, and may implement a technique (e.g., to train a model). In this
way, the one or more modules may receive additional information, and may use the model
to determine particular responses (e.g., recommendations, answers, etc.).
[0058]       The number and arrangement of functional modules shown in Fig. 4 are provided
as an example. In practice, devices 400 may include additional functional modules, fewer
functional modules, different functional modules, or differently arranged functional modules
than those shown in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of functional modules (e.g.,
one or more functional modules) of devices 400 may perform one or more functions
described as being performed by another set of functional modules of devices 400.
[0059]       Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process 500 for providing multiple types of
responses to a virtual agent application based on an input. In some implementations, one
or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may be performed by intelligence platform 220. In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may be performed by another device
or a group of devices separate from or including intelligence platform 220, such as user
device 210, external information source 230, and/or database device 240.
[0060]       As shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include receiving first information that
identifies an input associated with a virtual agent application that executes on a user device
(block 510). For example, intelligence platform 220 may receive information that identifies

                                                   18
an input associated with a virtual agent application that may be executing on user device
210.
[0061]      In some implementations, user device 210 may receive information that identifies
an input (e.g., a user input). For example, user device 210 may receive an input, such as
an utterance by the user, text input by the user, etc., and process the input (e.g., via ASR
module 405, dialog management module 415, and/or the like). In some implementations,
the input may include a query, a command, a request for a recommendation, a request to
access a service (e.g., a web-service, or the like), a request to initiate another application,
or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, user device 210 (e.g., dialog management module
415) may provide a request (e.g., to be displayed via a user interface, and/or output via an
audio output component) for additional information (e.g., during instances where additional
context may be required).
[0062]      In some implementations, user device 210 may determine whether the input may
be managed by user device 210 (e.g., whether user device 210 may perform a particular
action without forwarding information that identifies the input to intelligence platform 220).
For example, if the input is a query, then user device 210 may analyze stored information
(e.g., cached information) and determine whether a response may be generated based on
the stored information.       In this way, implementations described herein may conserve
processor and/or memory resources of intelligence platform 220 (e.g., by reducing an
amount of information provided to and/or requested from intelligence platform 220).
Additionally, or alternatively, user device 210 may determine that the information that
identifies the input may be forwarded to intelligence platform 220 (e.g., where user device
210 may not be capable of managing the input), as described below.                  In this way,
implementations described herein may conserve computing resources of user device 210.
[0063]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include determining, based on the
first information that identifies the input, a first response based on second information (block
520). For example, intelligence platform 220 may receive, from user device 210, the first
information that identifies the input, and may determine a first response based on the second
information.

                                                  19
[0064]      In some implementations, the first response may include a first type of response.
For example, different modules (e.g., alert generation module 424, question analysis module
430, recommendation module 435, etc.) of intelligence platform 220 may generate different
types of responses that may correspond to particular types of inputs.          As an example,
assume that the input is a query. In this case, intelligence platform 220 (e.g., question
analysis module 430) may determine a response that is of a particular type (e.g., an answer)
based on the type of input. In some implementations, a type of response may include an
answer, a recommendation, an alert, an action, or the like.
[0065]      In some implementations, the second information may include information
associated with a resource or a set of resources (e.g., a corpus of documents, a set of files,
a set of web pages, or the like). For example, intelligence platform 220 may receive, from
user device 210, external information source 230, and/or database device 240, the second
information. Additionally, or alternatively, intelligence platform 220 may perform a technique
(e.g., a web crawling technique, a web scraping technique, a web searching technique, a
database searching technique, a data mining technique, a database searching technique, or
the like), and may receive the second information based on the technique. Additionally, or
alternatively, intelligence platform 220 may receive the second information, and may perform
one or more processing techniques (e.g., natural language processing techniques, such as
text standardization techniques, tokenization techniques, part-of-speech (POS) tagging
techniques, or the like).     In this way, intelligence platform 220 may process the second
information more efficiently while generating responses to inputs than as compared to
situations where intelligence platform 220 did not perform the processing techniques,
thereby conserving processor and/or memory resources of intelligence platform 220.
[0066]      In some implementations, the second information may be associated with a
project. As used herein, a project includes a collaborative endeavor in which one or more
users (e.g., associated with one or more user devices 210 and/or one or more virtual agent
applications) may perform particular actions, generate particular information, modify
particular information, etc. As an example, a project may include a software engineering
project (e.g., associated with an application lifecycle management (ALM) process). In this
case, the project may include multiple areas, such as requirements management, software

                                                 20
architecture, computer programming, software testing, software maintenance, continuous
integration, release management, etc.
[0067]     In some implementations, the second information may be associated with one or
more parameters. For example, a parameter may include a particular portion of the second
information. As an example and continuing with the software engineering project example,
a parameter may include an amount of tests (e.g., regression tests, or the like) that have
been performed, particular test cases that have been executed in association with one or
more tests, particular results of the test cases, or the like.
[0068]     In some implementations, the second information may be associated with another
virtual agent application that is executing on another user device 210 (e.g., a user device
210 that is different than the user device 210 associated with the input).           For example,
another user device 210 may receive information (e.g., feedback) based on an input from
another user, and may provide the information to intelligence platform 220. In such cases,
intelligence platform 220 may receive the information that identifies the input of the other
user, may store the information, and/or may use the information when determining a
response to an input from a user of user device 210.
[0069]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may determine the first
response based on the second information, and/or the type of input received via the virtual
agent application. Alternatively, intelligence platform 220 may determine the first response
without having received information that identifies the input associated with the virtual agent
application. For example, the first response may include an alert. In this case, intelligence
platform 220 may monitor the second information (e.g., may monitor one or more
parameters), may detect a condition, and/or may generate a response (e.g., an alert) based
on the condition.    As an example, assume that a threshold amount of test cases are
associated with a particular result (e.g., a fail). In such cases, intelligence platform 220 may
detect a condition (e.g., that an amount of failed test cases satisfies a threshold), and may
determine an alert to provide to user device 210 (e.g., to notify a user of the status of the
project).

                                                 21
[0070]      In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may provide, to user device
210, information that identifies the first response, and/or another response, as described
elsewhere herein.
[0071]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include determining, based on the
first information that identifies the input and/or the first response, a second response based
on third information (block 530).       For example, intelligence platform 220 may determine,
based on the first information that identifies the input and/or based on the first response, a
second response based on third information. In some implementations, intelligence platform
220 may determine the second response without user input. For example, intelligence
platform 220 may automatically determine the second response based on determining the
first response, based on the first information, or the like.
[0072]      In some implementations, the second response may include a different type of
response than as compared to the first response.               For example, another module of
intelligence platform 220 may determine the second response based on the first information
that identifies the input and/or the first response (e.g., the first response that was determined
by a different module). Alternatively, the second response may include a same type of
response as the first response.        Additionally, or alternatively, the third information may
include information that is different than the second information (e.g., associated with a
different source, associated with a different resource, associated with a different project,
associated with another user device 210, or the like).
[0073]      As an example, assume that the first information that identifies the input includes
a query, and that the first response includes an answer to the query (e.g., as determined by
question analysis module 430).           In this case, the second response may include a
recommendation (e.g., as determined by recommendation module 435).                    Additionally,
continuing the example, assume that intelligence platform 220 determined the first response
based on second information associated with a first project (e.g., a first software engineering
project). In this case, intelligence platform 220 may determine the second response (e.g., a
recommendation, such as a recommendation to execute particular test cases, or the like)
based on third information associated with a second project (e.g., a previously completed

                                                22
software engineering project, a contemporaneous software engineering project, or the like).
In this way, implementations described herein may conserve computing resources of user
devices 210 (and/or other devices associated with a project) based on providing information
that is associated with a known outcome and/or result (e.g., past projects).
[0074]     As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include providing, to the virtual agent
application of the user device, fourth information based on the first response and/or the
second response to permit and/or cause an action to be performed (block 540).                 For
example, intelligence platform 220 may provide, to the virtual agent application of the user
device, fourth information based on the first response and/or the second response to permit
and/or cause an action to be performed.
[0075]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 (e.g., messaging module 440)
may aggregate responses (e.g., determined by other modules), and may provide information
to the virtual agent application of user device 210 based on the responses.              In some
implementations, user device 210 may receive the information, and may provide the
information for display (e.g., via a user interface). Additionally, or alternatively, user device
210 (e.g., TTS module 410) may receive the information, and may provide the information
(e.g., may generate an audible output to be output via an output component). For example,
intelligence platform 220 may provide the fourth information to permit and/or cause an action
to be performed.
[0076]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may permit and/or cause
another action to be performed.        For example, intelligence platform 220 may cause a
message (e.g., a push notification, an email message, a short message service (SMS)
message, etc.) to be sent to user device 210 based on the fourth information. In this way,
intelligence platform 220 may notify a user (e.g., a subject matter expert, a programmer, a
developer, a tester, etc.) of the status of a particular project, may notify a particular user to
perform an action (e.g., modify code, verify testing results, cause test cases to be executed,
etc.).
[0077]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may cause the fourth
information, and/or messages to be provided to other user devices 210 based on providing

                                               23
the fourth information to user device 210. In this way, other user devices 210 (e.g., other
virtual agent applications) may receive the fourth information, and may cache the fourth
information. Thereby, if other users provide similar inputs (e.g., queries) to respective virtual
agent applications, then the respective virtual agent applications may determine a response
based on the cached fourth information. In this way, intelligence platform 220 may reduce
an amount of requests (e.g., for similar or the same information) that may be provided to
intelligence platform 220, thereby conserving processor and/or memory resources of user
devices 210, intelligence platform 220, and/or thereby conserving network resources.
[0078]      In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may cause an action to be
performed in association with a project based on providing the fourth information.            For
example, assume that the fourth information includes particular recommendations (e.g., to
orchestrate additional testing, to perform a debugging process, to analyze code associated
with a potential defect, or the like). In such cases, user device 210 may provide the fourth
information     and  may prompt       the  user for additional     information   regarding    the
recommendations (e.g., whether to perform actions associated with the recommendations).
In some implementations, user device 210 may receive input identifying that the actions are
to be performed, and may provide information that identifies the input to intelligence platform
220.    In this way, intelligence platform 220 may perform the actions associated with the
recommendations based on the input, thereby reducing a need of the user to individually
cause particular actions to be performed, and thereby conserving processor and/or memory
resources of computing devices associated with the project.           Alternatively, intelligence
platform 220 may perform the actions without having received an input (e.g., automatically).
[0079]      In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may permit a user to access
text and/or a resource (e.g., second information and/or third information) associated with the
fourth information. For example, intelligence platform 220 may provide information (e.g., for
display via a user interface of user device 210) identifying and/or including particular second
information and/or third information that was used to determine the fourth information. In
some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may provide information that identifies a
particular section of a document that includes the fourth information (e.g., and/or that was
used to determine the fourth information). In this way, intelligence platform 220 may assist

                                                 24
a user in verifying the accuracy of the fourth information. Additionally, in this way, intelligence
platform 220 may reduce a quantity of processing needed to perform a search for the fourth
information, thereby conserving processor and/or memory resources of user device 210.
[0080]      In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may receive information (e.g.,
that identifies user-feedback) based on providing the fourth information, and may implement
a technique based on the received information, as described in more detail in association
with Figs. 7A and 7B.
[0081]      Although Fig. 5 shows example blocks of process 500, in some implementations,
process 500 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 5. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 500 may be performed in parallel.
[0082]      Figs. 6A-6E are diagrams of an example implementation 600 relating to example
process 500 shown in Fig. 5. Figs. 6A-6E show an example of providing multiple types of
responses to a virtual agent application based on an input.
[0083]      As shown in Fig. 6A, and by reference number 605, a user may input a command
(e.g., "Open test case application") by inputting text in association with a virtual agent
application that is being executed by user device 210. As shown by reference number 610,
the user may interact with the virtual agent application to submit the command.               As an
example, assume that the user is associated with a software engineering project (e.g.,
associated with an application life cycle management process).
[0084]      As shown in Fig. 6B, user device 210 may provide a particular user interface for
display (e.g., associated with a test case application), that may enable the user to input
particular information (e.g., files associated with test cases). For example, as shown by
reference numbers 615 and 620, the user may select particular files (e.g., "TestCase7.xlsx"
and "TestCase8.xsx," respectively) to provide to intelligence platform 220. As shown by
reference number 625, a user may interact with an "upload" button, and as shown by
reference number 630, user device 210 may provide the particular information (e.g., the files
associated with the test cases) to intelligence platform 220.

                                                25
[0085]      As shown in Fig. 6C, and by reference number 635, intelligence platform 220 may
determine that a condition satisfies a threshold. As an example, assume that intelligence
platform 220 determines that an amount of test cases are associated with a particular result
(e.g., failures). For example, assume that a particular device executed test case 7 and test
case 8, and that the test cases are associated with failures. Additionally, assume that
intelligence platform 220 received information that identifies that the test cases are
associated with failures. In this case, intelligence platform 220 may determine one or more
alerts to be provided to user device 210. As shown by reference number 640, intelligence
platform 220 may provide information that identifies the condition. As shown by reference
number 645, user device 210 may provide information, for display via a user interface, that
identifies that alerts may be available, and may receive information that identifies a user
interaction with the user interface (e.g., a selection of a "view" button).
[0086]      As shown in Fig. 6D, user device 210 may provide information, for display via a
user interface, that identifies the alerts.    For example, as shown, user device 210 may
provide information, for display, that identifies the particular test cases that are associated
with failures. As shown by reference number 650, intelligence platform 220 may determine
one or more recommendations based on information associated with other software
engineering projects. As an example, assume that particular actions were performed in
association with other software engineering projects (e.g., previous iterations of regression
testing, other ALM projects, or the like). In this case, intelligence platform 220 may identify
the particular actions that were performed, and may determine recommendations based on
the particular actions. As shown by reference number 655, a user may interact with a
particular button (e.g., "Recommendation(s)").         As shown by reference number 660,
intelligence platform 220 may provide information to user device 210 based on the user
interaction.
[0087]      As shown in Fig. 6E, user device 210 may provide, for display, information that
identifies the recommendations (e.g., "Recommendation 1," "Recommendation 2," and
"Recommendation 3"). In this way, the user may identify particular recommendations, and/or
may cause actions associated with the recommendations to be performed.

                                                26
[0088]      As indicated above, Figs. 6A-6E are provided merely as an example.              Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 6A-6E.
[0089]      Figs. 7A and 7B are flow charts of an example process 700 for implementing a
machine learning technique to improve information retrieval. In some implementations, one
or more process blocks of Figs. 7A and 7B may be performed by intelligence platform 220.
In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Figs. 7A and 7B may be performed
by another device or a group of devices separate from or including intelligence platform 220,
such as user device 210, external information source 230, and/or database device 240.
[0090]      As shown in Fig. 7A, process 700 may include receiving information that identifies
an input (block 705). For example, intelligence platform 220 may receive, from user device
210, information that identifies an input (e.g., a query). Additionally, or alternatively, user
device 210 (e.g., a virtual agent application being executed by user device 210) may receive
information that identifies the input, and may provide the information that identifies the input
to intelligence platform 220. In some implementations, the input (e.g., the query) may include
a set of attributes (e.g., qai, qa2... qan,).
[0091]      As further shown in Fig. 7A, process 700 may include identifying, based on the
input, a set of results (block 710). For example, intelligence platform 220 may identify, based
on the input (e.g., the query), a set of results (e.g., c1, C2 ... cm). For example, a result may
include a potential result to be provided to user device 210 in response to the query. In some
implementations, a result may include data (e.g., data stored by intelligence platform 220,
external information source 230, and/or database device 240, such as a document, a case
(e.g., where case based reasoning (CBR) is being employed), a test result, or the like).
[0092]      In some implementations, a result may include a set of attributes (e.g., cal, caz...
can ). Additionally, or alternatively, the set of attributes, associated with the result, may
correspond to the set of attributes associated with the query. In some implementations, a
result may include the same set of attributes as the query, a subset of attributes that
correspond to the query, or the like. For example, a result may include each attribute that is
associated with the query, more attributes than the query, or fewer attributes than the query.

                                                 27
[0093]        As further shown in Fig. 7A, process 700 may include determining, for each result
of the set of results, a set of local similarity scores based on attributes of the input (block
715). For example, intelligence platform 220 may determine, for each result of the set of
results, a set of local similarity scores based on the set of attributes associated with the input
(e.g., the query). In some implementations, a local similarity score may include information
that identifies a measure of similarity between an attribute of a result and a corresponding
attribute associated with the query.
[0094]        In some implementations, for each result, intelligence platform 220 may determine
a local similarity score for each attribute (e.g., qai, qa2,... qan) of the query. For example,
intelligence platform 220 may determine a local similarity score using the following
expression:
Isi = fi (qai, cai, thetai)
[0095]        For example, in the above expression, Ist may represent the local similarity score
between an attribute of the query (e.g., qai) and a corresponding attribute of a result (e.g.,
cat). Additionally, or alternatively, thetai may represent a parameter of a function (e.g., ft)
used to generate the local similarity score.
[0096]        In some implementations, the function (e.g., fi) may include a Gaussian function,
a feedforward neural network function, or the like, and/or may be characterized by a set of
parameters (e.g, theta;).      As a particular example, the function used to determine local
similarity scores may be represented as the Gaussian function:
f;= ae       gma)
[0097]        For example, as shown in the above expression, "m" may represent the mean of
the Gaussian function, and "sigma" may represent the standard deviation of the Gaussian
function.      Additionally, or alternatively, "m" and "sigma" may represent the adjustable
parameters (e.g., theta) of the Gaussian function. In some implementations, intelligence
platform 220 may set "m" to the value zero, thereby rendering "sigma" as the sole adjustable
parameter of fi. While a particular example of a function fi and adjustable parameters theta

                                                    28
are described above, it should be understood that other implementations include other types
of functions and/or other types of adjustable parameters.
[0098]       In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may determine a set of local
similarity scores based on the amount of attributes associated with the query. As an
example, assume that the query includes eight attributes (e.g., qai, qa2, . . . qa8). In this
case, intelligence platform 220 may determine eight local similarity scores associated with
the query and a particular result (e.g.,   IsI, /S2,   . . . IS8).
[0099]      As further shown in Fig. 7A, process 700 may include determining, for each result
of the set of results, a global similarity score based on the set of local similarity scores (block
720). For example, intelligence platform 220 may determine, for each result (e.g.,            C1, C2,..
. cm), a global similarity score (e.g., gsI, gs2,      ...    gsm) based on the respective set of local
similarity scores for the results. For example, intelligence platform 220 may determine a
global similarity score, for a result, using the following expression:
                              gs = g (IsI, Is2,  ..  . Isa, W1, W2, ... Wn)
[00100]     For example, in the above expression, g may represent a function used to
generate a global similarity score (e.g., gs) based on local similarity scores (e.g., (IsI, /s2,..
. Isn) and weight values (e.g., wi, w2, ...  wn) to be applied to respective local similarity scores.
For example, a weight value may affect a particular importance of an attribute as compared
to other attributes.    In other words, a particular attribute of the result may be of more
importance when determining similarity to the query than another attribute.                  In some
implementations (e.g., where g is a linear function), the expression for determining the global
similarity score may be represented as:
                                  gs = Wi*/Si + W2-s2 .. . + WnlSn
[00101]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may determine a set of global
similarity scores (e.g., a global similarity score for each result), and may rank the results
based on the respective global similarity scores, as described below.                    For example,
intelligence platform 220 may determine a global similarity score, of the set of global similarity
scores, based on a linear weighted sum of the local similarity scores.

                                                 29
[00102]     As further shown in Fig. 7A, process 700 may include determining a ranking of the
set of results based on a set of global similarity scores (block 725). For example, intelligence
platform 220 may rank each result, of the set of results, based on respective global similarity
scores, and may determine a ranking based on respective ranks. In some implementations,
intelligence platform 220 may determine a ranking that includes results in ascending order,
descending order, etc. based on the global similarity scores. Additionally, or alternatively,
intelligence platform 220 may determine a ranking that includes a particular subset of results
(e.g., results associated with the top ten global similarity scores, associated with the top three
global similarity scores, results associated with global similarity scores that satisfy a
threshold, etc.). In this way, implementations described herein may conserve computing
resources and/or network resources (e.g., based on providing a subset of results, and/or
results that may be of particular similarity). In some implementations, intelligence platform
220 may provide, to user device 210, information that identifies the ranking. For example,
intelligence platform 220 may provide a list of results based on the ranking (e.g., results of
the query).     In some implementations, user device 210 may provide, for display, the
information that identifies the ranking.
[00103]     As further shown in Fig. 7A, process 700 may include receiving information that
identifies a user-defined ranking of the set of results (block 730). For example, intelligence
platform 220 may receive, from user device 210, information that identifies a user-defined
ranking of the set of results.      In some implementations, the ranking (e.g., ranked by
intelligence platform 220) of the set of results may include a ranked list (e.g., rr, rr2 . . . .
rrL).   For example, rr, may represent the highest ranked result (e.g., as determined by
intelligence platform 220), rr2 may represent the second highest ranked result, etc. In some
implementations, the information that identifies the user-defined ranking of the set of results
may include a user-defined list (e.g., uri, ur2 .....  urL). For example, ur may represent the
highest ranked result (e.g., as ranked by a user), ur2 may represent the second highest
ranked result, etc.
[00104]     In some implementations, user device 210 may receive, based on an input,
information that identifies the user-defined ranking of the set of results, and may provide the
information to intelligence platform 220. In this way, intelligence platform 220 may compare

                                                   30
the ranking of the set of results (e.g., ranked by intelligence platform 220) and the user
defined ranking, and may determine an error, as described below.
[00105]      As further shown in Fig. 7B, process 700 may include determining an error based
on the information that identifies the user-defined ranking of the set of results (block 735).
For example, intelligence platform 220 may determine an error based on comparing the
ranking of the set of results and the user-defined ranking of the set of results. As an example,
assume that the ranking of the set of results includes a particular ranking (e.g., rrm = ci, rr2 =
C2, and rr3  = C3). Additionally, assume that the user-defined ranking includes another ranking
(e.g., uri = C2, ur2 = ci, and urs = C3).  In this case, intelligence platform 220 may determine
an error based on a discrepancy between the ranking and the user-defined ranking (e.g., ci
and C2 include different ranks).
[00106]      As further shown in Fig. 7B, process 700 may include performing a technique to
adjust one or more parameters associated with one or more functions based on determining
the error (block 740). For example, intelligence platform 220 may perform a technique to
adjust one or more parameters associated with a local similarity score function and/or a
global similarity score function based on determining the error. In some implementations,
intelligence platform 220 may perform the technique based on implementing a gradient
descent technique (e.g., a gradient descent algorithm). For example, a gradient descent
technique may be used to determine parameter values, of a function, that may generate a
minimum value associated with the function (e.g., parameter values that may generate a
minimum value associated with an error function (er)), as described below.
[00107]      In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may perform the technique by
determining an error function associated with a set of results. For example, intelligence
platform 220 may determine an error function that is associated with a first ranked result
(e.g., rri) and a second ranked result (e.g., rr). For example, intelligence platform 220 may
determine a composite error function erij (e.g., a composite error function of a function e1i,
and another function e2;,j):
                                        eri; = e (e1 j, e2;;)

                                                   31
[00108]     In the above expression, e1;; may represent a function of a difference between a
global similarity score of rr, and rr2 (e.g., e1, = el(gst, gs;)). Additionally, e2;; may represent
a function of a difference between a rank of ri-and rr (e.g., e2;; = e2 (ri, rrj, uri, ur)).
[00109]     In some implementations, the composite error function may be represented as:
                               eri; = [(gs, - gsj)beta1] * [(ri - rr)beta2I
[00110]     In the above expression, betal and beta2 may represent parameters including
values greater than or equal to one. Additionally, or alternatively, (gs; - gs;) may identify a
difference between global similarity scores of rri and rr, and (rri - rr) may represent a
difference between ranks of rri and rr.
[00111]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may identify particular pairs of
results that include a ranking (e.g., as determined by intelligence platform 20) that does not
match a user-defined ranking. For example, intelligence platform 220 may identify a pair of
results where a value of a difference in rankings (e.g., rri- rr) does not match another value
of a difference in user-defined rankings (e.g., uri- ur). In such cases, intelligence platform
220 may perform a gradient descent technique to identify parameter values that yields a
minimum of a composite error function associated with the pair of results.
[00112]     In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may determine one or more
updated weight values (e.g., wi') based on a gradient descent technique. For example,
intelligence platform 220 may determine an updated weight value based on the following
expression:
                                wi'= wi - (alphaw * gradient of eri ;)
[00113]     For example, in the above expression, wi' represents an updated weight value
(e.g., to be used to determine an updated global similarity score), wi represents a weight
value (e.g., that was used to determine a global similarity score), alphawrepresents a learning
rate parameter, and the gradient of erij represents the derivative of the composite error
function with respect to the weight value (e.g., wi). In some implementations, a learning rate
parameter may include a value that affects the amount by which a parameter value (e.g., a

                                                     32
weight value) may change with each iteration of the gradient descent algorithm, thereby
affecting a rate at which the gradient descent algorithm may determine a minimum value of
the composite error function.
[00114]     Additionally, or alternatively, intelligence platform 220 may determine one or more
updated theta values (e.g., theta;') based on a gradient descent technique. For example,
intelligence platform 220 may determine an updated theta value based on the following
expression:
                             thetai' = thetai - (alphateta * gradient of eri;)
[00115]      For example, in the above expression, theta;' represents an updated theta value
(e.g., to be used to determine an updated local similarity score), theta; represents a theta
value (e.g., that was used to determine a local similarity score), alphatheta represents a
learning rate parameter, and the gradient of erij represents the derivative of the composite
error function with respect to the theta value (e.g., theta;).
[00116]      In this way, intelligence platform 220 may identify a gradient of the composite error
function, and may perform iterations (e.g., calculate updated parameter values, such as w
and/or theta) proportional to the negative of the respective gradients (e.g., derivatives) such
that intelligence platform 220 may determine parameter values that may yield a minimum of
the composite error function.           In some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may
perform an iteration of the gradient descent technique, and may determine one or more
updated weight values and/or theta values (e.g., to be used to determine updated local
similarity scores and/or global similarity scores, as described below). While implementations
are described using a gradient descent technique, other implementations may use other
techniques, such as a conjugate gradient technique, a stochastic gradient descent
technique, a nelder-mead technique, a downhill simplex technique, or the like.
[00117]     As further shown in Fig. 7B, process 700 may include determining, based on
performing the technique, an updated ranking (block 745).                 For example, intelligence
platform 220 may determine an updated set of local similarity scores, an updated set of
global similarity scores, and an updated ranking of the set of results based on the updated

                                                33
parameter values (e.g., in a similar manner as described above in connection with blocks
715, 720, and 725, respectively).
[00118]    As further shown in Fig. 7B, process 700 may include comparing the updated
ranking and the information that identifies the user-defined ranking (block 750), and
determining whether a condition is satisfied (block 755). For example, intelligence platform
220 may compare the updated ranking and the information that identifies the user-defined
ranking, and may determine whether a condition is satisfied (e.g., to determine whether to
perform additional iterations of the gradient descent technique).
[00119]    In some implementations, a condition may include an error.              For example,
intelligence platform 220 may determine whether an error exists (e.g., a ranking error as
described above in connection with block 735), and may determine whether the condition is
satisfied based on whether an error exists.
[00120]    Additionally, or alternatively, a condition may include an amount of iterations of the
technique (e.g., gradient descent technique). For example, intelligence platform 220 may
determine whether intelligence platform 220 has performed a threshold amount of iterations
of the gradient descent technique, and may determine whether the condition is satisfied
based on the threshold amount of iterations.
[00121]    Additionally, or alternatively, a condition may include a difference in values, of the
composite error function, associated with successive iterations of the gradient descent
technique. For example, intelligence platform 220 may determine a first value associated
with the composite error function based on a first set of parameter values, and may
determine a second value associated with the composite error function based on a second
set of parameter values (e.g., updated parameter values), and may determine whether the
second value satisfies a threshold, may determine whether a difference between the second
value and the first value satisfies a threshold, or the like.
[00122]    As further shown in Fig. 7B, if the condition is not satisfied (block 755 - NO), then
process 700 may include returning to block 740. For example, intelligence platform 220 may
perform another iteration of the technique (e.g., the gradient descent technique), may

                                                34
determine an updated ranking, may compare the updated ranking and the information that
identifies the user-defined ranking, and may determine whether the condition is satisfied. In
some implementations, intelligence platform 220 may determine that the condition is not
satisfied based on determining a ranking error, determining that the amount of iterations of
the gradient descent technique does not satisfy the threshold, determining that a value of
the composite error function does not satisfy a threshold, and/or determining that a difference
in values of the composite error function between successive iterations of the gradient
descent technique does not satisfy a threshold.
[00123]     As further shown in Fig. 7B, if the condition is satisfied (block 755 - YES), then
process 700 may include applying values associated with the one or more parameters (block
765).    For example, intelligence platform 220 may store information that identifies the
parameter values (e.g., weight values and/or theta values), and may apply the parameter
values in association with other queries. That is, intelligence platform 220 may receive
additional queries, and may determine rankings of results based on the parameter values.
[00124]      In this way, intelligence platform 220 may receive information that identifies a
user-defined ranking of results (e.g., a user-desired ranking of results), and may determine
parameter values that may generate rankings of results that more accurately match the user
defined ranking.     In this way, implementations described herein may enable intelligence
platform 220 to provide results to queries that more accurately reflect user-desired results,
thereby reducing a quantity of additional queries for other results, or the like. In this way,
implementations described herein may conserve processor and/or memory resources of
user devices 210 and/or intelligence platform 220, and/or may conserve network resources.
[00125]     Additionally, in this way, implementations described herein improve the accuracy
and quality of information retrieval, thereby increasing user satisfaction regarding intelligence
platform 220, reducing the need of the user to cause additional searches to be performed,
etc. In this way, intelligence platform 220 may more quickly and accurately provide results
that adapt to the preference of the user.
[00126]     Although Figs. 7A and 7B shows example blocks of process 700, in some
implementations, process 700 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks,

                                               35
or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in Figs. 7A and 7B. Additionally, or
alternatively, two or more of the blocks of process 700 may be performed in parallel.
[00127]     Figs. 8A-8C are diagrams of an example implementation 800 relating to example
process 700 shown in Figs. 7A and 7B. Figs. 8A-8C show an example of implementing a
machine learning technique to improve information retrieval.
[00128]     As shown in Fig. 8A, and by reference number 810, intelligence platform 220 may
receive information that identifies an input.     For example, assume that a user enters
particular values that correspond to attributes, and/or that the user wishes to perform a
search for information that includes the particular values associated with the attributes (e.g.,
a query). As shown by reference number 820, intelligence platform 220 may identify a set
of results (e.g., based on stored information, based on querying external information source
230, or the like), may determine a ranking of the set of results (e.g., by determining local
similarity scores and/or global similarity scores based on the attributes, as described above
in connection with Figs. 7A and 7B), and may provide information that identifies the ranking
to user device 210.
[00129]     As shown in Fig. 8B, user device 210 may provide, for display, information that
identifies the ranking of the set of results. For example, assume that intelligence platform
220 determined a ranking of "Result A," "Result B," and then "Result C." In other words,
intelligence platform 220 determined that "Result A" most closely matched the values
associated with the attributes (e.g., provided by the user), etc. As shown by reference
number 830, intelligence platform 220 may receive information that identifies a user-defined
ranking of the set of results (e.g., "Feedback"). For example, as shown, assume that the
user determined that "Result B" was more pertinent than "Result A" (e.g., more closely
matched the values associated with the attributes). In this case, intelligence platform 220
may determine an error based on comparing the ranking of the set of results and the user
defined raking (e.g., the two sets of results do not match). As shown by reference number
840, intelligence platform 220 may perform a technique to adjust one or more parameter
values associated with one or more functions based on the information that identifies the
user-defined ranking.     For example, intelligence platform 220 may perform a machine

                                                 36
learning technique (e.g., a gradient descent technique) to adjust values associated with
parameters to be used to determine local and/or global similarity scores, as described above
in connection with Figs. 7A and 7B.
[00130]     As shown in Fig. 8C, and by reference number 850, intelligence platform 220 may
receive information that identifies another query. As shown by reference number 860,
intelligence platform 220 may determine another ranking of another set of results (e.g., based
on the updated parameter values), and may provide, to user device 210, information that
identifies the other ranking of the other set of results, as shown by reference number 870.
User device 210 may provide, for display, information that identifies the other ranking of the
set of results. As shown, assume that the user determines that the other ranking of the set
of results is correct (e.g., does not provide any feedback).
[00131]      In this way, intelligence platform 220 may determine additional rankings of results
based on feedback received from user device 210. Additionally, in this way, intelligence
platform 220 may improve accuracy of information retrieval, thereby reducing an amount of
additional searches for information, etc. In this way, intelligence platform 220 may conserve
processor and/or memory resources, and/or may conserve network resources.
[00132]     As indicated above, Figs. 8A-8C are provided merely as an example.             Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 8A-8C.
[00133]     The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[00134]     As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[00135]     Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,

                                               37
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[00136]    Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.              In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[00137]    It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[00138]    Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.       Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.

                                                38
[00139]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00140]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00141]     Any reference to prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                  39
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
               receive first information that identifies an input associated with a virtual agent
       application executing on a user device,
                       the virtual agent application providing an interface for a project involving
               a plurality of user devices;
               determine, based on the first information that identifies the input, a first
       response based on second information;
               determine, based on at least one of the first information that identifies the input
       or the first response and without user input, a second response,
                       the second response being associated with third information,
                       the second information being associated with a first resource, and
                       the third information being associated with a second resource that is
               different than the first resource; and
               provide, to the virtual agent application of the user device, fourth information
       that identifies at least one of the first response or the second response.
2.     A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors further:
       identify a set of results based on the first information that identifies the input;
       determine a first ranking of the set of results;
       receive, from the user device, fifth information that identifies a user-defined ranking of
the set of results;
       perform a technique to adjust one or more parameters associated with one or more
functions based on the fifth information and the set of results,
               the one or more functions being associated with the first ranking of the set of
       results;
       determine a second ranking based on performing the technique;
       determine that a condition is satisfied based on comparing the first ranking and the
second ranking; and

                                                 40
        apply one or more values associated with the one or more parameters based on the
condition being satisfied,
               the device to use the one or more values in association with one or more
        additional inputs received after the input.
3.      A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors
further:
        receive fifth information that identifies feedback based on providing the fourth
information;
        implement a machine learning technique based on the fifth information; and
        provide, to the user device, sixth information based on performing the machine
learning technique.
4.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the first response
includes a first type of response, and the second response includes a second type of
response that is different than the first type of response.
5.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
        determine that one or more parameters satisfy a threshold,
               the one or more parameters being associated with the second information; and
        where the one or more processors, when providing the fourth information, are to:
                provide the fourth information based on the one or more parameters satisfying
        the threshold.
6.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the virtual agent
application is a first virtual agent application and the user device is a first user device, and
        where the second information is associated with a second virtual agent application
associated with a second user device,
               the second virtual agent application being different from the first virtual agent
        application, and

                                                 41
               the second user device being different from the first user device.
7.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the virtual agent
application is a first virtual agent application and the user device is a first user device, and
       where the one or more processors further:
       provide the fourth information to a second virtual agent application of a second user
device,
               the second virtual agent application being different from the first virtual agent
       application, and
               the second user device being different from the first user device.
8.     A method, including:
       receiving, by a device, first information that identifies an input,
               the input being associated with a virtual agent application of a user device;
       identifying, by the device and based on the input, a set of results;
       determining, by the device, a ranking of the set of results;
       providing, by the device and to the user device, second information that identifies the
ranking of the set of results;
       receiving, by the device and based on providing the second information, third
information that identifies a user-defined ranking of the set of results;
       performing, by the device, a technique to adjust one or more parameters associated
with one or more functions based on the third information and the second information; and
       applying, by the device, one or more values associated with the one or more
parameters based on the technique,
               the device to determine additional rankings of additional sets of results based
       on applying the one or more values.
9.     A method according to claim 8, further including:
       determining another ranking of the set of results based on performing the technique;
       comparing the ranking and the other ranking;

                                                 42
        determining that a condition is satisfied based on comparing the ranking and the other
ranking; and
        where applying the one or more values includes:
                applying the one or more values based on the condition being satisfied.
10.     A method according to either claim 8 or claim 9, further including:
        determining, for a first result of the set of results, a first set of local similarity scores
based on one or more first attributes of the input and one or more second attributes of the
first result;
        determining, for a second result of the set of results, a second set of local similarity
scores based on the one or more first attributes of the input and one or more third attributes
of the second result;
        determining a first global similarity score, for the first result, based on the first set of
local similarity scores;
        determining a second global similarity score, for the second result, based on the
second set of local similarity scores; and
        where determining the ranking of the set of results includes:
                determining the ranking of the set of results based on the first global similarity
        score and the second global similarity score.
11.     A method according to any one of claims 8 to 10, where the technique includes a
gradient descent algorithm.
12.     A method according to any one of claims 8 to 11, further including:
        determining an error function based on the third information and the second
information;
        determining the one or more values associated with the one or more parameters
based on a derivative of the error function; and
        where performing the technique includes:
                performing the technique based on determining the one or more values based
        on the derivative of the error function.

                                                   43
13.     A method according to any one of claims 8 to 12, further including:
         receiving fourth information that identifies another input,
                the fourth information being associated with another virtual agent application
        of another user device;
        determining another set of results based on the fourth information and based on the
one or more values associated with the one or more parameters; and
         providing, to the other user device, fifth information that identifies the other set of
results.
14.     A method according to any one of claims 8 to 13, further including:
        determining a first response based on the first information that identifies the input,
                the first response including the second information;
        determining a second response based on at least one of the first information or the
first response,
                the second response being associated with fourth information that is different
        than the second information; and
         providing fifth information that identifies at least one of the first response or the second
response.
15.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
        one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
                receive first information that identifies an input associated with a virtual agent
        application of a user device,
                         the virtual agent application providing an interface for a project involving
                a plurality of user devices;
                determine, based on the first information that identifies the input, a first
         response based on second information;

                                                 44
               determine, based on at least one of the first information that identifies the input
       or the first response, a second response based on third information; and
               provide, to the virtual agent application, fourth information based on at least
       one of the first response or the second response,
                       the virtual agent application to provide, via an output component of the
               user device, the fourth information.
16.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 15, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       identify, based on the first information that identifies the input, a set of results;
       determine a ranking of the set of results based on attributes of the first information
and respective attributes of the set of results;
       receive fifth information that identifies a modification to the set of results; and
       implement a machine learning technique to adjust one or more parameter values of
one or more functions based on the fifth information,
               the device to use the one or more functions when determining additional
       rankings of additional sets of results.
17.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 15 or claim 16,
where the third information is associated with another virtual agent application that is
executing on another user device.
18.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 17,
where the first response is an answer to a query, and the second response is a
recommendation.
19.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 18,
where the second information is associated with a first project, and the third information is
associated with a second project that is different than the first project, and
       where the second response includes a recommendation based on the second project.

                                            45
20.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 19,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       provide the fourth information to another virtual agent application associated with
another user device.

                                                              <U+2725><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                             <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+261E><U+2714><U+271D><U+2706><U+2718><U+2706>
                                                              <U+261B><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F>
                                                                  <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271F>
                                                              <U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F>
                                                              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E>
                                                               <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E>
                                                                 <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>         <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2727>
                                 <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>
                                                                       <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702>              <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2726>
            <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E>
         <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A>
       <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F> <U+2729><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E>                                                                             <U+2730>
1/16     <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E>                                                                                <U+2732>
        <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E>
       <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                <U+2704><U+2605><U+2702>
                                                                                             <U+25D7>P<U+274D><U+25B2>
                                <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>                         <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>                     <U+2756><U+25C6><U+274A><U+25C6><U+25C6><U+2751> <U+25BC> <U+25B2><U+2751><U+274F> <U+274D><U+25CF> <U+274B><U+274A><U+2749>
                <U+270D><U+2746>               <U+2748>           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2741>             <U+2743>
                <U+270D><U+2746>               <U+2747>           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2741>             <U+2742>
                <U+270D><U+2746>               <U+2745>           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2741>
               <U+261B><U+2714><U+261E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2740>       <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D>      <U+261B><U+2714><U+261E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2740>        <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D>
                              <U+273E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721><U+2717><U+2706><U+260E>
        <removed-date>               <removed-apn>

                                                     <U+2704><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                    <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261B>
                                                   <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2701><U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>
                                                    <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A>
                                                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2721><U+2714><U+270D><U+2720>
                                                     <U+2729><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E>
                                                   <U+2720><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+270F>      <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2727>
   <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2721><U+271E><U+2711><U+261E>      <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>   <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270D><U+261E> <U+2729><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E><U+271F><U+270D><U+2721><U+271A>     <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2726>
  <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>                                         <U+2704> <U+2702>                              <U+271E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+2714><U+271D><U+2706>
 <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270F> <U+2729><U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>                                                                     <U+2721><U+270D><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706>
 <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2701><U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E>                                                                   <U+261E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2716><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270D><U+261E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
   <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E>                                                                 <U+2712><U+2716><U+2714><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+271D><U+2706>
  <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E>                                                                 <U+2706><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+261B>
 <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
           <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                                             <U+2716> <U+2720><U+25C6><U+2751><U+2712> <U+2756><U+25C6><U+2720><U+2711>
2/16
                                                                             <U+2715> <U+2720><U+25C6><U+2751><U+2712> <U+2756><U+25C6><U+2720><U+2711>
                            <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>          <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>
                           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2741>            <U+2748>                                  <U+2714> <U+2720><U+25C6><U+2751><U+2712> <U+2756><U+25C6><U+2720><U+2711>
                           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2741>            <U+2747>
                           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2741>            <U+2745>                                    <U+2713><U+25C6><U+2720><U+25C6><U+2751><U+2712>
                                                                            <U+2756><U+25C6><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2720><U+270E><U+270F><U+2751><U+270E><U+274A><U+2751><U+270D><U+270C>
                          <U+261B><U+2714><U+261E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2740>      <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D>                             <U+261E><U+2720><U+261E><U+261B><U+2720><U+274F><U+274F><U+274D><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
                          <U+2717> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721><U+2717><U+2706><U+260E>
       <removed-date>            <removed-apn>

                                             <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
3/16
                 <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742> <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>
       <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                               <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                        <U+2701><U+2745><U+2743>                        <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2701> <U+2743>                     <U+2701><U+273E><U+2743>
                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+270F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>              <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D><U+273F>               <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D><U+273F>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+270C><U+2714><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+273F>                <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2702>                  <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+2719>
4/16
           <U+2701><U+2717><U+2743>
                                     <U+2701><U+2743><U+2743>                     <U+2701><U+2742><U+2743>
        <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D><U+273F>
          <U+2706><U+2717><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+261E><U+2740>
                                    <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+2706>  <U+260E>               <U+2721><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+2706><U+271D><U+270D><U+2721><U+271A>
  <removed-date>       <removed-apn>

                                       <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                            <U+273E><U+2743> <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2742><U+2717>
            <U+2701><U+2717><U+2717>
                          <U+2706><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D><U+260E>                <U+2706><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D><U+260E>
          <U+2706><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D><U+260E>
5/16
                                              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+2719>
         <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+2717><U+270F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                               <U+2712><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+273F>
            <U+2701><U+2743><U+2717>              <U+273E><U+2742><U+2717>
                                                  <U+2701> <U+2717>
          <U+2706><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D><U+260E>           <U+2706><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D><U+260E>
                                                <U+2706><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D><U+260E>
               <U+2701>
         <U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2706><U+2716><U+270F><U+270C>         <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2721><U+2706><U+270C><U+2706> <U+2702>
               <U+2704>
         <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+2714>               <U+2701>
                            <U+261E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2716>
                                                  <U+2740><U+273D><U+273D>
       <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                            <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                            <U+2712><U+2706><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2713> <U+2706><U+272A> <U+270D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+261B><U+2714><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270D>
                  <U+2701><U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2713> <U+270D><U+261E> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2701><U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>
                      <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2721><U+2714><U+270D><U+2720> <U+2729><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2712>        <U+2701><U+2717><U+273E>
                   <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270D><U+261E> <U+2729><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E><U+271F><U+270D><U+2721><U+271A>
                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2721><U+271E><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261B>
6/16                 <U+270F> <U+2729><U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2701><U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E>     <U+2701><U+2743><U+273E>
                     <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261B>
                     <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F> <U+2729><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2701><U+2742><U+273E>
                     <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                                <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+271D><U+2706><U+2718><U+2706>
                     <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E><U+271F> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F>      <U+2701> <U+273E>
                    <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                            <U+2725><U+260E> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                                                          <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                 <U+2704><U+2702><U+2704>                  <U+261E><U+271E><U+270E><U+272A><U+2714><U+2740>
7/16
                     <U+2706><U+2704><U+2704>          <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2706><U+2713><U+2702>
                                  <U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2706><U+2701> <U+261E><U+2718><U+2706><U+273D> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+2719>
                            <U+2702><U+2714><U+270D><U+2706> <U+261E><U+261B><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2719> <U+270C><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2701>
                                                               <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
       <removed-date>     <removed-apn>

                                            <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                            <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742>
                    <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>                                               <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                                               <U+2704><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2706><U+2605><U+2704>                      <U+2712><U+270F><U+270D><U+2716><U+2713><U+2726>
8/16
       <U+2704><U+2605><U+2704>                                  <U+2718><U+261B><U+2716><U+2718><U+2744><U+2747><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D>       <U+2706><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+273F>
       <U+2706><U+2702><U+2704>                                  <U+2718><U+261B><U+2716><U+2718><U+2744><U+2745><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D>       <U+2706><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+273F>
                                                              <U+261B><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D> <U+2712><U+270F><U+270D><U+2716><U+2713><U+2726>
                                                             <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
<removed-date>     <removed-apn>

                                                                  <U+260E> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                         <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742>
                                 <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>
                                                                                                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
             <U+2712><U+2716><U+270D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721><U+2711><U+261E>
       <U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>
        <U+270F> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                <U+2706><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                                             <U+2704> <U+2704>
9/16
                               <U+2706> <U+2704>                       <U+2715><U+2706><U+271E>
                                           <U+2704>             <U+2702><U+2701>
                                               <U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2706><U+270C> <U+2743> <U+2706><U+2706><U+2721><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270D><U+2741>
                                                                             <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
       <removed-date>              <removed-apn>

                                                                 <U+260E> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                         <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742>
                                 <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>
                                                                                                            <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+2721>
                    <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                     <U+2704><U+2706><U+2704>
                                                                               <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704>
        <U+2706><U+2706><U+2704>
                                                <U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                               <U+2702> <U+2701>
10/16
                                  <U+2704>                                        <U+2701>
                                   <U+2716><U+271E><U+270F><U+2720> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2748> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D> <U+2743> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2716><U+2701>
                                  <U+2704>                                        <U+2701>
                                   <U+2716><U+271E><U+270F><U+2720> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2747> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D> <U+2742> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2716><U+2701>
                                  <U+2704><U+2716><U+271E><U+270F><U+2720> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2745> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2706><U+273D>   <U+2701>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2716><U+2701>
                                                                                 <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
         <removed-date>             <removed-apn>

                                               <U+260E> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2727>
11/16
                            <U+2743> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                            <U+2742> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                             <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                   <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
        <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                                <U+2725><U+2701> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                 <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+2701><U+2743>
                <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+2720><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                 <U+261B><U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+271D><U+261B>                                       <U+273E><U+2742>
              <U+2706><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+270F><U+2716><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+272A><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+270F> <U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
12/16                          <U+261B><U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+271D><U+261B> <U+2706><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+270F><U+2716><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+271D><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A>                    <U+2701><U+2742>
               <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+271D><U+261B> <U+2706><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+270F><U+2716><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+272A><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F> <U+2729><U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F><U+2706> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2720> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                                <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+272A><U+271E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+261B><U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+271D><U+261B>
                <U+2706><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+270F><U+2716><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+271D><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270F> <U+2729><U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F><U+2706> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2720> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>   <U+273E> 
                              <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270F> <U+2729><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+2719>                  <U+2701> 
                              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                    <U+273E><U+2701>
<removed-date>       <removed-apn>

                                              <U+2704>    <U+2701>   <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                                           <U+2706>
                         <U+261B><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+2714><U+2716><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701>            <U+273E>
                                                       <U+2740><U+2702><U+2741>
                                               <U+2702><U+2712><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+261B>
                                               <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+273F>                       <U+2702><U+2746>
                                                             <U+273E><U+273E><U+2745>
13/16
                                               <U+271D>
                                              <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+2720><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                              <U+271D>
                <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2706><U+2721><U+270F><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D><U+273F>
                                                                                           <U+2701>
                     <U+271D>
                  <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+2729><U+2706><U+2714> <U+271E><U+270C><U+2711><U+271D><U+2706><U+261E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>         <U+273E>
                         <U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+2721><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2714><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D>              <U+2701>
                <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270D><U+261E> <U+2706><U+2714> <U+271E><U+270C><U+2711><U+271D><U+2706><U+261E> <U+270F> <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+271A>
                                                             <U+271D>
                                       <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2721>
                <U+2712><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+2720><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+2721><U+2706> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                                                                                           <U+273E>
  <removed-date>     <removed-apn>

                                                    <U+2725>       <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                    <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742>
                                            <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>            <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E>
                <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D>
                <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+270F> <U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2712>                                           <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                    <U+2712><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2729><U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>                                                      <U+2704><U+2702><U+2715>
                  <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+270F> <U+2706><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+2719>
                         <U+2704><U+2605><U+2715>
14/16
                      <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>                 <U+2706><U+271F><U+270F><U+2740>
                                                                        <U+273D>                    <U+2701><U+2727> <U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+272A><U+271E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2701>
                                                                        <U+2740>                    <U+2701><U+273F> <U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+272A><U+271E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2701>
                                                                        <U+271A>                    <U+2701>   <U+2701> <U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+272A><U+271E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2701>
                                                                        <U+2702>                    <U+2701>   <U+2701> <U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+272A><U+271E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2701>
                                        <U+2704><U+2706><U+2721><U+2706><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2720> <U+261B><U+2706><U+261E><U+2714><U+272A><U+271E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+2706><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2701>
                                                                               <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
        <removed-date>      <removed-apn>

                                                     <U+2704>      <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
            <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+2720><U+2706><U+2712>
           <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E>
            <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E>
                                                <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742>                     <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B>
             <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261B><U+270F><U+272A>
                                        <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>      <U+2706><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+2720><U+2706><U+2712>
           <U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2714><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                                    <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270F> <U+261B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E>
          <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2711><U+261E><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270F>
                                                                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
           <U+261B><U+2706><U+2714><U+2716><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270F><U+2713>
                                                                             <U+2704><U+2702><U+2715>
         <U+2706><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270D><U+261E>
         <U+2706><U+2714> <U+271E><U+270C><U+2711><U+271D><U+2706><U+261E> <U+270F> <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+271A>
                  <U+2704> <U+2715>
15/16        <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>               <U+2706><U+271F><U+270F><U+2740>
                                             <U+273F>                                   <U+273F> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>
                                             <U+2701>                                   <U+2701> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>
                                             <U+2701>                                   <U+2701> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>
                                   <U+271D><U+271D><U+270F><U+272A><U+2712><U+2706><U+2706>                                <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+260E>
                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
    <removed-date>        <removed-apn>

                                                       <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
                                           <U+2701><U+2742><U+2742>
                                                                <U+2704><U+2714><U+2715>
                                   <U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+271E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719>
               <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D>
        <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2706><U+2711><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2720><U+270D> <U+2717><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2721>
          <U+2721><U+2706><U+2711><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270E><U+2721><U+2706><U+261E><U+2706><U+2727>
                  <U+2704><U+2704><U+2715>
                                                                <U+2704><U+2706><U+2715>
16/16
        <U+261E><U+2706><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>             <U+2706><U+271F><U+270F><U+2740>
                                      <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>                                <U+273F> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>
                                      <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>                                <U+2701> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>
                                      <U+2744><U+2744><U+2744>                                <U+2701> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>
                                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+270F><U+272A><U+2712><U+2706><U+2706>                         <U+261B><U+261E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+270F><U+260E>
                                                              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2701> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2717><U+2701> <U+2716><U+270F><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E>
 <removed-date>      <removed-apn>

