                                           ABSTRACT
  CD47+ disease cells, such as CD47+ cancer cells, are treated with an agent that blocks signalling
  via the SIRPa/CD47 axis. The agent is a human SIRPa fusion protein that displays negligible
  CD47 agonism and negligible red blood cell binding. The fusion protein comprises an IgV
5 domain from variant 2 of human SIRPa, and an Fc having effector function. The IgV domain
  binds human CD47 with an affinity that is at least five fold greater than the affinity of the entire
  extracellular region of human SIRPa. The fusion protein is at least 5 fold more potent than a
  counterpart lacking effector function.

                    Treatment of CD47+ Disease Cells with SIRP Alpha-Fc Fusions
    This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013362789, which is the Australian
    National Phase of PCT/CA2013/001046 filed 17 December 2013, which claims priority from
  5 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/738,008 filed 17 December 2012. The
    contents of each application listed in this paragraph are fully incorporated by reference herein.
    Field of the Invention
    This invention relates to therapeutic, Fc fusion proteins useful particularly for the treatment of
    subjects presenting with CD47+ disease cells. The fusion proteins are based on a domain within
 .0 the extracellular region of human SIRPa, and incorporate an Fc region that enhances the anti
    cancer effect of the fusion protein.
    Background to the Invention
    Signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPa) is a transmembrane protein belonging to the
    immunoglobulin superfamily, and a receptor for CD47. Cloning and expression of a human form
 .5 of SIRPa has been described by Ullrich et al in US 6541615. Involvement of SIRPa and CD47
    in the etiology of cancer and other diseases has been implicated by Sarfati et al in
    WO1999/040940 and by Van den Berg et al in W00/66159, who suggest therapeutic use of an
    inhibitor of SIRPa. More recently, Jaiswal et al have suggested the use of antibodies to CD47
    for the treatment of hernatopoietic cancers, in W02009/091601. The interaction between SIRPa
  0 and CD47 plays an important role in regulating the phagocytosis of leukemia cells and leukemia
    stem cells (LSCs) by macrophages. Blocking antibodies against CD47 have been shown to
    promote phagocytosis of LSCs by macrophages. In addition, Wang et al have suggested cancer
    treatments based on SIRPa fusion proteins in WO 2010/130053. For treating immune disorders,
    Smith et al have suggested the use of CD47-based Fc fusions, in US2008/0131431. The
 .5 treatment of inflammatory and immune disorders also is taught by Raymond et al, in
    W02010/070047.
    It would be useful to provide agents that inhibit signalling via the SIRPa/CD47 axis for use in
    the treatment of cancer and other diseases.
    Summary of the Invention
30  The present invention provides SIRPa as an Fe fusion protein in which components are selected
    for optimal inhibition of the CD47/SIRPa axis. The present inventors have found that a
    particular and singular domain within the extracellular region of human SIRPa binds CD47 with
    greater affinity than the intact extracellular region of human SIRPa. Also, it is demonstrated
    herein that in vivo efficacy of SIRPaFc fusions is surprisingly and dramatically improved when
35  the constant (Fc) region is one having effector function, notwithstanding that inhibition of the
                                                        1

    CD47/SIRPa axis should require no such activity, and despite in vitro indications that an
    effectorless Fc region should be preferred.
    The present SIRPaFc fusion proteins also demonstrate negligible CD47 agonism, permitting
    them to act as a dedicated inhibitor of SIRPa-mediated signalling in vivo. As a further attribute,
  5 the fusion protein exhibits negligible binding to red blood cells. This is in sharp contrast to other
    inhibitors of this axis, such as CD47 antibodies, that bind strongly to red blood cells, in some
    instances causing hemagglutination. With the present fusion protein, dosing does not need to
    account for the "sink" effect in which administered drug becomes sequestered and inactive in
    RBC-bound form, or to account for any adverse events caused by RBC interaction.
 .0 In one of its aspects, there is provided a SIRPaFc fusion protein useful to inhibit SIRPa
    mediated stimulation of cell-bound CD47, the fusion protein comprising a SIRPa protein
    component and, fused therewith, an antibody constant region (Fc) component, wherein the
    SIRPa protein component consists of or comprises the V domain of human SIRPa and the Fe
    component is the constant region of an IgG having effector function. In embodiments, the Fc is
 .5 selected from the constant region of an IgGI antibody or an IgG4 antibody.
    In a related aspect, there is provided a polynucleotide that encodes a secretable form of the
    SIRPaFc fusion as a single chain polypeptide. In another related aspect, there is provided a
    cellular host useful to produce the SIRPuFc fusion protein, the host having the polynucleotide
    incorporated expressibly therein. As well, in another embodiment, there is provided a method
 .0 for obtaining the SIRPaFc fusion protein, comprising culturing or growing the host, and
    recovering the SIRPuFc fusion as a dimeric protein. In embodiments, the host is a eukaryotic
    host of any species that glycosylates expressed proteins.
    In another of its aspects, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition useful to
    treat a subject presenting with a disease cell that is CD47+, the composition comprising a
 .5 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and an amount of the SIRPaFc fusion protein effective to
    inhibit the growth or proliferation of the CD47+ disease cell.
    In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method for treating a subject presenting with
    CD47+ disease cells, the method comprising administering to the subject an amount of the
    SIRPaFc fusion protein effective to inhibit the growth and/or proliferation of the disease cells.
30  In a related aspect, the present invention provides for the use of the SIRPaFc protein to treat
    cancer or any other disease in which CD47+ disease cells are present. There is also provided the
    use of the SIRPcFc protein for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of cancer or
    another disease in which CD47+ disease cells are present. Similarly, there is provided a
    pharmaceutical composition for use in treating a CD47+ disease cell, comprising the SIRPa-Fc
35  protein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In embodiments, the disease cells are CD47+
    cancer cells, particularly including CD47+ leukemia cells, such as AML.
                                                       2

    These and other aspects of the present invention are now described in greater detail with
    reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
    Reference to the Figures
    Figure 1 compares the binding of SIRPa fusions designated TTI-602 and TTI-616 to human
  5 CD47 using a direct binding assay (Figure 1A) and an indirect competition assay (Figure IB).
    More particularly, the binding of SIRPaFe with a single N-terminal SIRPa V-domain (TTI-616)
    was compared to a fusion consisting of all three (V-C-C) extracellular SIRPa domains (TTI
    602). A) Direct binding assay. CD47+ human Jurkat T cells were incubated with titrated amounts
    of TTI-602 or TTI-616 and binding analyzed by flow cytometry using a polyclonal anti-IgG
 .0 antibody. B) Competitive inhibition assay. Jurkat cells were incubated with biotinylated
    SIRPaFc (TTI-601) in the presence of titrated amounts of cold competitor TTI-602 or TTI-616.
    Binding was measured by flow cytometry, and the results converted to percentage inhibition,
    with 0% defined as binding in the absence of competitor.
    Figure 2 shows binding profiles (Kd) for three different SIR-Pa fusion proteins. Revealed are very
 .5 similar binding profiles, producing nearly identical affinity binding (Kd) values (2.3-2.4 nM).
    This was expected, as all three proteins contain the same SIRPa region and the Fe region was not
    predicted to affect ligand binding. More particularly, CD47+ human Jurkat T cells were
    incubated with titrated amounts of fusion proteins and binding analyzed by flow cytometry using
    a polyclonal anti-IgG antibody. The geometric means were then normalized and the binding
 .0 curves and Kd values were generated by Prism (Graphpad) using nonlinear regression fitting the
    data to a one site binding model.
    Figure 3 (see also Figure 6) shows that TTI-621 and TTI-622 exhibit similar pro-phagocytosis
    activity, whereas TTI-616 is clearly weaker (this is particularly evident at the 10 nM dose). This
    indicates either a wild type IgG4 or IgGlFc region is required for maximal SIRPUFc-triggered
 .5 tumor cell killing by macrophages. More particularly, macrophages were generated by culturing
    human peripheral blood CD 14+ monocytes for at least 1 week in the presence of monocyte
    colony stimulating factor, and then activated with interferon-gamma (overnight) and LPS (1
    hour). OCI/AML-2 cells were labeled with CFSE and incubated for 30 minutes with SIRPaFc
    fusions at the indicated concentrations or control Fc proteins (mutated hIgG4 Fc (TTI-401) or
30  hIgGI Fc (TTI-402)) at 1 mM or left untreated (UT). The AML-2 cells and macrophages were
    then co-cultured for 2 hours, and the macrophages were stained with wheat germ agglutinin
    Alexa Fluor@ 555 conjugate and analyzed by confocal microscopy. The phagocytosis index is
    defined as the number of AML cells engulfed per 100 macrophages, counting at least 200
    macrophages per sample. Fusion proteins with a mutated hIgG4 Fc region are shown as white
35  bars, wild type hIgG4 as grey bars and wild type IgGI as black bars. **p<0.05, *p<0.01 vs.
    isotype control (one-way ANOVA and Dunnett's post-test).
                                                      3

    Figure 4 shows that the TTI-621 fusion protein bearing an IgGI Fc region was the only protein
    capable of mediating an anti-leukemic effect at the site of transplantation (the injected femur). In
    the non-injected bone marrow, there was a clear Fc dependent effect, with TTI-621 (full Fc
    activity) > TTI-622 (low Fc activity) > TTI-616 (no Fc activity). NOD/ShiLtJ-Prkdcs"id
  5 (NOD.SCID) mice (8-12 weeks old) were sublethally irradiated with 275 cGy from a 137Cs g
    irradiator and treated with anti-CD 122 antibody (to deplete NK cells) prior to intrafemoral
    injection of AML cells collected from a human leukemia patient. Starting three weeks after
    transplantation, mice were treated with SIRPaFc fusion proteins (8 mg/kg IP three times per
    week) or equimolar doses of control Fc proteins TTI-401 (mutated human IgG4) or TTI-402
 .0 (human IgG 1). After 4 weeks of treatment, mice were sacrificed and human leukemia cells in the
    injected femur, non-injected bone marrow and spleen detected by flow cytometric analysis,
    staining for expression of human CD45 and human CD33 markers. The AML engraftment was
    expressed as the percentage of human CD45+CD33+ cells in each compartment.
    Figure 5        CD47+ human Jurkat T cells were incubated with SIRPaFc fusion proteins or
 .5 control Fc (3 pM) or left untreated (UT) overnight and then stained for Annexin-V and analyzed
    by flow cytometry. The pro-apoptotic agent staurosporine (Staur) at 1 pM was included as a
    positive control. One sample containing TTI-602 was pretreated with B6H12, a CD47-blocking
    antibody.
    Figure 6        shows results obtained using the protocols described for Figure 3, but with a more
  0 developed data set.
    Figure 7        A) Human erythrocytes were stained with titrated amounts of the anti-CD47
    antibody B6H12 or TTI-616 and analyzed by flow cytometry. B) Human erythrocytes were
    stained with a panel of anti-CD47 monoclonals (2D3, B6H12, BRIC126 and CC2C6) or
    SIRPaFc fusion protein TTI-622 and analyzed by flow cytometry. Each reagent was used at a
 .5 saturating concentration identified in previous optimization experiments. TTI-401 was used as a
    control Fc. Data shown are pooled from six donors. C) AML-2 tumor cells were stained with
    CD47 antibodies or TTI-622 and analyzed by flow cytometry. Data are shown for a single high
    dose (660 nM) of each reagent.
    Detailed Description of the Invention
30  The present invention relates to the human SIRPa protein, in a form fused directly or indirectly
    with an antibody constant region, or Fe. Unless otherwise stated, the term "human SIRPa" as
    used herein refers to a wild type, endogenous, mature form of human SIRPa. In humans, the
    SIRPa protein is found in two major forms. One form, the variant 1 or VI form, has the amino
    acid sequence set out as NCBI RefSeq NP_542970.1 (residues 27-504 constitute the mature
35  form). Another form, the variant 2 or V2 form, differs by 13 amino acids and has the amino acid
    sequence set out in GenBank as CAA71403.1 (residues 30-504 constitute the mature form).
    These two forms of SIRPa constitute about 80% of the forms of SIRPa present in humans, and
                                                     4

    both are embraced herein by the term "human SIRPa". Also embraced by the term "human
    SIRPa" are the minor forms thereof that are endogenous to humans and have the same property
    of triggering signal transduction through CD47 upon binding thereto. The present invention is
    directed most particularly to the variant 2 form, or V2.
  5 The present SIRPaFc fusion proteins incorporate one of the three so-called immunoglobulin (Ig)
    domains that lie within the extracellular region of human SIRPa. More particularly, the present
    SIRPaFc proteins incorporate residues 32-137 of human SIRPa (a 106-mer), which constitute
    and define the IgV domain of the V2 form according to current nomenclature. This SIRPa
    sequence, shown below, is referenced herein as SEQ ID No.1.
 .0 EELQVIQPDKSVSVAAGESAILHCTVTSLIPVGPIQWFRGAGPARELIYNQKEGHFPRVTT
    VSESTKRENMDFSISISNITPADAGTYYCVKFRKGSPDTEFKSGA [SEQ ID No.1]
    In a preferred embodiment, the SIRPaFc fusion proteins incorporate the IgV domain as defined
    by SEQ ID No.1, and additional, flanking residues contiguous within the SIRPa sequence. This
    preferred form of the IgV domain, represented by residues 31-148 of the V2 form of human
 .5 SIRPa, is a 18-mer having SEQ ID No. 22 shown below:
    EEELQVIQPDKSVSVAAGESAILHCTVTSLIPVGPIQWFRGAGPARELIYNQKEGHFPRVT
    TVSESTKRENMDFSISISNITPADAGTYYCVKFRKGSPDTEFKSGAGTELSVRAKPS
    [SEQ ID No.22]
 .0 It has been found that the activity of this V2 form of human SIRPa is surprisingly greater, in
    terms of CD47 binding affinity, relative to the CD47 binding affinity of the entire extracellular
    domain of SIRPa. This binding affinity is at least two fold greater than the binding affinity of
    the entire extracellular domain. In embodiments, the affinity is at least 3 fold, 4 fold, 5 fold or
    greater for the V2 domain relative to the entire extracellular domain. In a direct binding assay, as
 .5 reported in Example 1 herein, a fusion protein that incorporates this SIRPa domain has a binding
    affinity approximately 10-fold greater than a fusion protein that incorporates the entire SIRPa
    extracellular domain. Likewise, in an indirect competition assay also reported in Example 1
    herein, the V2/IgV single-domain fusion provides a binding affinity that is superior to the CD47
    binding affinity of a fusion that incorporates the entire extracellular region of SIRPa.
30  Accordingly, SIRPaFc fusions based on this preferred V domain have the potential for greater
    potency in inhibiting the CD47 signalling that is stimulated upon binding with SIRPa.
    The present SIRPa fusion proteins also incorporate an Fc region having effector function. The
    preference for effector function is entirely surprising, and difficult to explain with current
    information regarding the CD47/SIRPu axis. It could be expected that an effectorless Fe region
35  would have activity sufficient to inhibit this axis, and that nothing more would be gained by
    integrating effector function. Nevertheless, the data herein as presented particularly in Example
    5 show clearly that a benefit attaches to an effector-active Fc, in terms of the anti-leukemic in
                                                       5

    vivo activity of the fusion. This is particularly surprising in light of the results shown in Example
    4, where the phagocytic activity of the fusion appears in vitro to show no particular preference
    for fusions based on either effector-active or effectorless Fc components.
    For use in the present SIRPaFc fusion s, suitable Fc components thus are those having effector
  5 function. An Fc component "having effector function" is an Fc component having at least some
    effector function, such as at least some contribution to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity
    or some ability to fix complement. Also, the Fc will at least bind to Fc receptors. These
    properties can be revealed using assays established for this purpose. Functional assays include
    the standard chromium release assay that detects target cell lysis. By this definition, an Fc region
 .0 that is wild type IgGI or IgG4 has effector function, whereas the Fc region of a human IgG4
    mutated to eliminate effector function, such as by incorporation of an alteration series that
    includes Pro233, Val234, Ala235 and deletion of Gly236 (EU), is considered not to have effector
    function. In a preferred embodiment, the Fc is based on human antibodies of the IgGI isotype.
    The Fc region of these antibodies will be readily identifiable to those skilled in the art. In
 .5 embodiments, the Fc region includes the lower hinge-CH2-CH3 domains.
    In a specific embodiment, the Fc region is based on the amino acid sequence of a human IgGI
    set out as P0 1857 in UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, residues 104-330, and has the amino acid sequence
    shown below and referenced herein as SEQ ID No.2:
    DKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYV
 .0 DGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTIS
    KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
    VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK*
    [SEQ ID No.2]
    Thus, in embodiments, the Fc region has either a wild type or consensus sequence of an IgGI
 .5 constant region. In alternative embodiments, the Fc region incorporated in the fusion protein is
    derived from any IgGI antibody having a typical effector-active constant region. The sequences
    of such Fc regions can correspond, for example, with the Fc regions of any of the following IgG 1
    sequences (all referenced from GenBank), for example: BAG65283 (residues 242-473), ,
    BAC04226.1 (residues 247-478), BAC05014.1 (residues 240-471), CAC20454.1 (residues 99
30  320), BAC05016.1 (residues 238-469), BAC85350.1 (residues 243-474), BAC85529.1 (residues
    244-475), and BAC85429.1 (residues (238-469).
    In other embodiments, the Fc region has a sequence of a wild type human IgG4 constant region.
    In alternative embodiments, the Fc region incorporated in the fusion protein is derived from any
    IgG4 antibody having a constant region with effector activity that is present but, naturally, is
35  significantly less potent than the IgGI Fc region. The sequences of such Fc regions can
    correspond, for example, with the Fc regions of any of the following IgG4 sequences: P01861
                                                       6

    (residues 99-327) from UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and CAC20457.1 (residues 99-327) from
    GenBank.
    In a specific embodiment, the Fc region is based on the amino acid sequence of a human IgG4
    set out as P01861 in UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, residues 99-327, and has the amino acid sequence
  5 shown below and referenced herein as SEQ ID No.23:
    ESKYGPPCPSCPAPEFLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSQEDPEVQFNWY
    VDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQFNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKGLPSSIEKTIS
    KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSQEEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
    VLDSDGSFFLYSRLTVDKSRWQEGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSLGK
 .0 [SEQ ID No.23]
    In embodiments, the Fc region incorporates one or more alterations, usually not more than about
    5 such alterations, including amino acid substitutions that affect certain Fc properties. In one
    specific and preferred embodiment, the Fc region incorporates an alteration at position 228 (EU
 .5 numbering), in which the serine at this position is substituted by a proline (S 2 2 8 P), thereby to
    stabilize the disulfide linkage within the Fc dimer. Other alterations within the Fc region can
    include substitutions that alter glycosylation, such as substitution of Asn 29 7 by glycine or alanine;
    half-life enhancing alterations such as T 252L, T 25S, and T 256F as taught in US62777375, and
    many others. Particularly useful are those alterations that enhance Fc properties while remaining
 .0 silent with respect to conformation, e.g., retaining Fc receptor binding.
    In a specific embodiment, and in the case where the Fc component is an IgG4 Fc, the Fc
    incorporates at least the S 228P mutation, and has the amino acid sequence set out below and
    referenced herein as SEQ ID No. 24:
    ESKYGPPCPPCPAPEFLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSQEDPEVQFNWY
 .5 VDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQFNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKGLPSSIEKTIS
    KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSQEEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
    VLDSDGSFFLYSRLTVDKSRWQEGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSLGK
    [SEQ ID No.24]
30  The present invention thus provides a fusion protein useful to inhibit the binding of human
    SIRPa and human CD47, thereby to inhibit or reduce transmission of the signal mediated via
    SIRPa-bound CD47, the fusion protein comprising a human SIRPa component and, fused
    therewith, an Fc component, wherein the SIRPu component comprises or consists of a single IgV
    domain of human SIRPu V2 and the Fc component is the constant region of a human IgG having
35  effector function.
    In one embodiment, the fusion protein comprises a SIRPa component consisting at least of
    residues 32-137 of the V2 form of wild type human SIRPa, i.e., SEQ ID No.l. In a preferred
                                                       7

    embodiment, the SIRPa component consists of residues 31-148 of the V2 form of human SIRPu,
    i.e., SEQ ID No. 22. In another embodiment, the Fc component is the Fc component of the
    human IgGI designated P01857, and in a specific embodiment has the amino acid sequence that
    incorporates the lower hinge-CH2-CH3 region thereof i.e., SEQ ID No.2.
  5 In a preferred embodiment, therefore, the present invention provides a SIRPaFc fusion protein,
    as both an expressed single chain polypeptide and as a secreted dimeric fusion thereof, wherein
    the fusion protein incorporates a SIRPa component having SEQ ID No.1 and preferably SEQ ID
    No, 22 and, fused therewith, an Fc region having effector function and having SEQ ID No.2.
    When the SIRPa component is SEQ ID No. 1, this fusion protein comprises SEQ ID No.3,
 .0 shown below:
    EEELQVIQPDKSVSVAAGESAILHCTVTSLIPVGPIQWFRGAGPARELIYNQKEGHFPRVTTVSEST
    KRENMDFSISISNITPADAGTYYCVKFRKGSPDTEFKSGAGTELSVRAKPSDKTHTCPPCPAPELL
    GGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNST
    YRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQV
 .5 SLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSV
    MHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK* [SEQ ID No.3]
    When the SIRPa component is SEQ ID No. 22. this fusion protein comprises SEQ ID No. 25, shown
    below:
    EEELQVIQPDKSVSVAAGESAILHCTVTSLIPVGPIQWFRGAGPARELIYNQKEGHFPRVT
 .0 TVSESTKRENMDFSISISNITPADAGTYYCVKFRKGSPDTEFKSGAGTELSVRAKPSDKT
    HTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGV
    EVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAK
    GQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
    SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK [SEQ ID No.25]
 .5 In alternative embodiments, the Fc component of the fusion protein is based on an IgG4, and
    preferably an IgG4 that incorporates the S 2 2 8 P mutation. In the case where the fusion protein
    incorporates the preferred SIRPa IgV domain of SEQ ID No.22, the resulting IgG4-based
    SIRPa-Fc protein has SEQ ID No. 26, shown below:
    EEELQVIQPDKSVSVAAGESAILHCTVTSLIPVGPIQWFRGAGPARELIYNQKEGHFPRVT
30  TVSESTKRENMDFSISISNITPADAGTYYCVKFRKGSPDTEFKSGAGTELSVRAKPSESKY
    GPPCPPCPAPEFLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSQEDPEVQFNWYVDGV
    EVHNAKTKPREEQFNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKGLPSSIEKTISKAKG
    QPREPQVYTLPPSQEEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDS
    DGSFFLYSRLTVDKSRWQEGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSLGK [SEQ ID No.26]
35  In preferred embodiments of the invention, the fusion protein comprises, as the SIRPU IgV
    domain of the fusion protein, a sequence that is SEQ ID No.22. The preferred SIRPaFc is SEQ
    ID No.25.
                                                        8

    In the SIRPaFc fusion protein, the SIRPa component and the Fc component are fused, either
    directly or indirectly, to provide a single chain polypeptide that is ultimately produced as a dimer
    in which the single chain polypeptides are coupled through intrachain disulfide bonds formed
    within the Fc region. The nature of the fusing region is not critical. The fusion may be direct
  5 between the two components, with the SIRP component constituting the N-terminal end of the
    fusion and the Fc component constituting the C-terminal end. Alternatively, the fusion may be
    indirect, through a linker comprised of one or more amino acids, desirably genetically encoded
    amino acids, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten amino acids, or any
    number of amino acids between 5 and 100 amino acids, such as between 5 and 50, 5 and 30 or 5
 .0 and 20 amino acids. A linker may comprise a peptide that is encoded by DNA constituting a
    restriction site, such as a BamHI, Clal, EcoRI, HindlIl, PstI, SalI and XhoI site and the like.
    The linker amino acids typically and desirably will provide some flexibility to allow the Fc and
    the SIRP components to adopt their active conformations. Residues that allow for such
    flexibility typically are Gly, Asn and Ser, so that virtually any combination of these residues (and
 .5 particularly Gly and Ser) within a linker is likely to provide the desired linking effect. In one
    example, such a linker is based on the so-called G4 S sequence (Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Ser) which
    may repeat as (G 4S)n where n is 1, 2, 3 or more, or is based on (Gly)n, (Ser)n, (Ser-Gly)n or
    (Gly-Ser)n and the like. In another embodiment, the linker is GTELSVRAKPS (SEQ ID No.21).
    This sequence constitutes SIRPa sequence that C-terminally flanks the IgV domain (it being
 .0 understood that this flanking sequence could be considered either a linker or a different form of
    the IgV domain when coupled with the IgV minimal sequence described above). It is necessary
    only that the fusing region or linker permits the components to adopt their active conformations,
    and this can be achieved by any form of linker useful in the art.
    The SIRPatFc fusion is useful to inhibit interaction between SIRPa and CD47, thereby to block
 .5 signalling across this axis. Stimulation of SIRPa on macrophages by CD47 is known to inhibit
    macrophage-mediated phagocytosis by deactivating myosin-II and the contractile cytoskeletal
    activity involved in pulling a target into a macrophage. Activation of this cascade is therefore
    important for the survival of CD47+ disease cells, and blocking this pathway enables
    macrophages to eradicate the CD47+ disease cell population.
30  The term "CD47+" is used with reference to the phenotype of cells targeted for binding by the
    present polypeptides. Cells that are CD47+ can be identified by flow cytometry using CD47
    antibody as the affinity ligand. CD47 antibodies that are labeled appropriately are available
    commercially for this use (for example, clone B6H12 is available from Santa Cruz
    Biotechnology). The cells examined for CD47 phenotype can include standard tumour biopsy
35  samples including particularly blood samples taken from the subject suspected of harbouring
    endogenous CD47+ cancer cells. CD47 disease cells of particular interest as targets for therapy
    with the present fusion proteins are those that "over-express" CD47. These CD47+ cells
    typically are disease cells, and present CD47 at a density on their surface that exceeds the normal
                                                       9

    CD47 density for a cell of a given type. CD47 overexpression will vary across different cell
    types, but is meant herein to refer to any CD47 level that is determined, for instance by flow
    cytometry as exemplified herein or by immunostaining or by gene expression analysis or the
    like, to be greater than the level measurable on a counterpart cell having a CD47 phenotype that
  5 is normal for that cell type.
    Accordingly, for therapeutic use, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and a therapeutically effective amount of the present
    SIRPaFc fusion protein. As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" means any and all
    solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption
 .0 delaying agents, and the like that are physiologically compatible and useful in the art of
    protein/antibody formulation. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include one or
    more of water, saline, phosphate buffered saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol and the like, as well
    as combinations thereof. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for
    example, sugars, polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or sodium chloride in the composition.
 .5 Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may further comprise minor amounts of auxiliary
    substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, preservatives or buffers, which enhance the
    shelf life or effectiveness of the pharmacological agent. In embodiments, the SIRPaFc fusion is
    formulated using practises standard in the art of therapeutic antibody formulation. Solutions that
    are suitable for intravenous administration, such as by injection or infusion, are particularly
 .0 useful.
    Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required
    amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients noted above, as
    required, followed by sterilization microfiltration. Generally, dispersions are prepared by
    incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic dispersion medium
 .5 and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders
    for the preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying lyophilizationn) that yield a powder of
    the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered
    solution thereof.
    As used herein, "effective amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for a particular
30  period of time necessary, to achieve the desired therapeutic result. A therapeutically effective
    amount of the pharmacological agent may vary according to factors such as the disease state,
    age, sex, and weight of the individual, and the ability of the pharmacological agent to elicit a
    desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any
    toxic or detrimental effects of the pharmacological agent are outweighed by the therapeutically
35  beneficial effects.
    The SIRPuFc fusion protein may be administered to the subject through any of the routes
    established for protein delivery, in particular intravenous, intradermal and subcutaneous injection
    or infusion, or by oral or nasal administration. The fusion protein will typically be administered
                                                       10

    at a dose in the range 0.5 to 15mg/kg body weight of the subject per day. It will be appreciated
    that the effective dose (an amount effective in treating the disease or condition, as evidenced by a
    reduction in the growth or rate of proliferation or size of the cancer cells or mass) will vary
    according to a number of factors including the age and general health of the subject and the
  5 severity of the disease to be treated.
    The amount of active ingredient that can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single
    dosage form will vary depending upon the subject being treated, and the particular mode of
    administration. The amount of active ingredient required to produce a single, unit dosage form
    will generally be that amount of the composition that produces a therapeutic effect. Generally,
 .0 out of one hundred percent, this amount will range from about 0.01 percent to about ninety-nine
    percent of active ingredient, preferably from about 0.1 percent to about 70 percent, e.g., from
    about 1 percent to about 30 percent of active ingredient in combination with a pharmaceutically
    acceptable carrier.
    A composition of the present invention can be administered via one or more routes of
 .5 administration using one or more of a variety of methods known in the art. As will be
    appreciated by the skilled artisan, the route and/or mode of administration will vary depending
    upon the desired results. Preferred routes of administration for fusion proteins of the invention
    include intravenous, intramuscular, intradermal, intraperitoneal, subcutaneous, spinal or other
    parenteral routes for administration, for example by injection or infusion. The phrase "parenteral
 .0 administration" that include injection such as intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial,
    intrathecal, intracapsular, intraorbital, intracardiac, intradermal, intraperitoneal, transtracheal,
    subcutaneous, subcuticular, intraarticular, subcapsular, subarachnoid, intraspinal, epidural and
    intrasternal injection and infusion.
    Alternatively, a fusion protein of the invention can be administered via a non-parenteral route,
 .5 such as a by instillation or by a topical, epidermal or mucosal route of administration, for
    example, intranasally, orally, vaginally, rectally or sublingually.
    Dosing regimens are adjusted to provide the optimum desired response (e.g., a therapeutic
    response). For example, a single bolus may be administered, or several divided doses may be
    administered over time or the dose may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by
30  the therapeutic situation. It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in
    dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. "Unit dosage form" as
    used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subjects to be
    treated; each unit contains a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce
    the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The
35  specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on
    (a) the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be
    achieved, and (b) the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for
    the treatment of sensitivity in individuals.
                                                        11

    For administration of the fusion protein, the unit dose will be within the range from about 0.000 1
    to 100 mg/kg, and more usually 0.01 to 5 mg/kg, of the host body weight. For example dosages
    can be 0.3 mg/kg body weight, 1 mg/kb body weight, 3 mg/kg body weight, 5 mg/kg body
    weight or 10 mg/kg body weight or within the range of 1 -10 mg/kg. An exemplary treatment
  5 regime entails administration once per week, once every two weeks, once every three weeks,
    once every four weeks, once a month, once every 3 months or once every three to 6 months.
    Preferred dosage regimens for the fusion protein of the invention include 1 mg/kg body weight
    or 3 mg/kg body weight via intravenous administration, with the fusion protein being given using
    one of the following dosing schedules; (i) every four weeks for six dosages, then every three
 .0 months; (ii) every three weeks; (iii) 3 mg/kg body weight once followed by 1 mg/kg body weight
    every three weeks. In some methods, dosage is adjusted to achieve a plasma fusion protein
    concentration of about 1-1000 ug/ml and in some methods about 25-300 ug/ml.
    The present fusion protein displays negligible binding to red blood cells. There is accordingly no
    need to account for an RBC "sink" when establishing effective dosing regimens. Relative to
 .5 other SIRPa/CD47 inhibitors that are bound by RBCs, it is estimated that the present SIRP-Fc
    fusion can be effective at doses that are less than half the doses required for drugs that become
    RBC-bound, such as CD47 antibodies.
    Moreover, the SIRPa-Fc fusion protein is a dedicated antagonist of the SIRPt-mediated signal,
    as it displays negligible CD47 agonism when binding thereto. There is accordingly no need,
 .0 when establishing medically useful unit dosing regimens, to account for any stimulation induced
    by the drug.
    The fusion protein can also be administered as a sustained release formulation, in which case less
    frequent administration is required. Dosage and frequency vary depending on the half-life of the
    fusion protein in the patient. The dosage and frequency of administration can vary depending on
  5 whether the treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. In prophylactic applications, a relatively
    low dosage is administered at relatively infrequent intervals over a long period of time. Some
    patients continue to receive treatment for the rest of their lives. In therapeutic applications, a
    relatively high dosage at relatively short intervals is sometimes required until progression of the
    disease is reduced or terminated, and preferably until the patient show partial or complete
30  amelioration of symptoms of disease. Thereafter, the patient can be treated using a prophylactic
    regimen.
    The SIRPaFc proteins of the present invention are useful to treat a variety of CD47+ disease
    cells. These include particularly CD47+ cancer cells, including liquid and solid tumours. In one
    embodiment, the SIRPaFc proteins are used to inhibit the growth or proliferation of
35  hematological cancers. As used herein, "hematological cancer" refers to a cancer of the blood,
    and includes leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma among others. "Leukemia" refers to a cancer of
    the blood, in which too many white blood cells that are ineffective in fighting infection are made,
    thus crowding out the other parts that make up the blood, such as platelets and red blood cells. It
                                                       12

    is understood that cases of leukemia are classified as acute or chronic. Certain forms of leukemia
    may be, by way of example, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL); acute myeloid leukemia
    (AML); chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML);
    myeloproliferative disorder/neoplasm (MPDS); and myelodysplastic syndrome. "Lymphoma"
  5 may refer to a Hodgkin's lymphoma, both indolent and aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma,
    Burkitt's lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma (small cell and large cell), among others. Myeloma
    may refer to multiple myeloma (MM), giant cell myeloma, heavy-chain myeloma, and light
    chain or Bence-Jones myeloma.
    In some embodiments, the hematological cancer treated with the SIRPaFc protein is a CD47+
 .0 leukemia, preferably selected from acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia,
    chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and myelodysplastic syndrome,
    preferably, human acute myeloid leukemia.
    In other embodiments, the hematological cancer treated with the SIRPaFc protein is a CD47+
    lymphoma or myeloma selected from Hodgkin's lymphoma, both indolent and aggressive non
 .5 Hodgkin's lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, follicular lymphoma (small cell and large cell),
    multiple myeloma (MM), giant cell myeloma, heavy-chain myeloma, and light chain or Bence
    Jones myeloma as well as leimyosarcoma.
    Solid tumours can also be treated with the present fusion protein, to reduce the size, number or
    growth rate thereof and to control growth of cancer stem cells. Such solid tumours include
 .0 CD47+ tumours in bladder, brain, breast, lung, colon, ovaries, prostate, liver and other tissues as
    well.
    The SIRPuFc protein can be administered alone, as monotherapy, or in combination with any
    other agent useful in the treatment of the targeted indication.
    The SIRPcFc protein also is useful for detecting the presence of CD47+ cells. This can be
  5 achieved either indirectly, by first incubating the protein and test cells with the fusion protein and
    then probing with a detectable agent that binds the fusion protein, or directly by providing the
    fusion protein in labeled form.
    In another aspect, the present invention features the fusion protein conjugated to a diagnostic or
    therapeutic moiety, such as a detectable marker, a cytotoxin, a drug or a radiotoxin. Conjugates
30  that include one or more cytotoxins are referred to as "immunotoxins" or drug conjugates. A
    cytotoxin or cytotoxic agent includes any agent that is detrimental to (e.g., kills) cells. Examples
    include taxol, ethidium bromide, emetine, mitomycin, etoposide, vincristine, vinblastine,
    colchicine, doxorubicin, daunorubicin, mitoxantrone, mighramycin, and actinomycin D.
    Therapeutic agents also include, for example, antimetabolites (e.g., methotrexate, 6
35  mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, and cytarabine), alkylating agents (e.g., cyclophosphamide,
    busulfan, mitomycin C, and cisplatin), anthracyclines (e.g., daunorubicin and doxorubicin), and
                                                      13

    antibiotics (e.g., dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin), bleomycin, mithramycin, and
    anthramycin (AMC), and anti-mitotic agents (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine)
    Non-limiting examples of detectable markers to which a fusion protein can be conjugated
    include fluorescein, cyanin, Cy-3, biotin, radioisotopes including I- 123 and I- 125 , and the like.
  5 Fusion proteins can be labelled with such detectable markers by methods known in the art.
    Cytotoxins can be conjugated to fusion proteins of the invention using linker technology
    available in the art. Examples of linker types that have been used to conjugate a cytotoxin to an
    fusion protein include, but are not limited to, hydrazones, thioethers, esters, disulfides and
    peptide-containing linkers.
 .0 Fusion proteins of the present invention also can be conjugated to a radioactive isotope to
    generate cytotoxic radiopharmaceuticals, also referred to as radioconjugates. Examples of
    radioactive isotopes that can be conjugated to fusion proteins for use diagnostically or
                                                                         13       90                  177
    therapeutically include, but are not limited to, iodine, indium 11 , yttrium 0, and lutetium
    Methods for preparing radioconjugates are established in the art.
 .5 In one embodiment, the fusion proteins can be used to detect levels of CD47, or levels of cells
    that contain CD47 on their membrane surface. Detection of CD47 using a SIRPUFc fusion
    protein can be achieved, for example, by contacting a sample (such as an in vitro sample) and a
    control sample with the fusion protein under conditions that allow for the formation of a complex
    between the fusion protein and CD47. Any complexes formed between the fusion protein and
 .0 CD47 are detected and compared in the sample and the control. For example standard detection
    methods, well-known in the art, such as ELISA and flow cytometric assays, can be performed
    using the compositions of the invention.
    The fusion proteins thus are useful for diagnostic purposes, including sample testing and in vivo
    imaging, and for therapeutic purposes to treat diseases having, as one hallmark, disease cells in
 .5 which CD47 is upregulated.
    For either purpose, the fusion protein can be conjugated to an appropriate agent, to form a drug
    conjugate. Agents appropriate for treating disease include cytotoxic agents such as
    chemotherapeutics and radiotherapeutics. For diagnostic purposes, appropriate agents are
    detectable labels that include radioisotopes, for whole body imaging, and radioisotopes,
30  enzymes, fluorescent labels and other suitable antibody tags for sample testing.
    For CD47 detection, the detectable labels can be any of the various types used currently in the
    field of in vitro diagnostics, including particulate labels including metal sols such as colloidal
    gold, isotopes such as I125 or Tc 99 presented for instance with a peptidic chelating agent of the
    N2S2, N3S or N4 type, chromophores including fluorescent markers, luminescent markers,
35  phosphorescent markers and the like, as well as enzyme labels that convert a given substrate to a
    detectable marker, and polynucleotide tags that are revealed following amplification such as by
                                                       14

    polymerase chain reaction. Suitable enzyme labels include horseradish peroxidase, alkaline
    phosphatase and the like. For instance, the label can be the enzyme alkaline phosphatase,
    detected by measuring the presence or formation of chemiluminescence following conversion of
    1,2 dioxetane substrates such as adamantyl methoxy phosphoryloxy phenyl dioxetane (AMPPD),
  5 disodium 3-(4-(methoxyspiro { 1,2-dioxetane-3,2'-(5'-chloro)tricyclo {3.3.1.1 3,7} decan} -4-yl)
    phenyl phosphate (CSPD), as well as CDP and CDP-star@ or other luminescent substrates well
    known to those in the art, for example the chelates of suitable lanthanides such as Terbium(III)
    and Europium(III). The detection means is determined by the chosen label. Appearance of the
    label or its reaction products can be achieved using the naked eye, in the case where the label is
 .0 particulate and accumulates at appropriate levels, or using instruments such as a
    spectrophotometer, a luminometer, a fluorimeter, and the like, all in accordance with standard
    practice.
    For SIRPaFc fusion protein-based therapy, the cytotoxin may be conjugated with the fusion
    protein through non-covalent interaction, but more desirably, are coupled by covalent linkage
 .5 either directly or, more preferably, through a suitable linker. In a preferred embodiment, the
    conjugate comprises a cytotoxin and a fusion protein. Conjugates of the fusion protein and
    cytotoxin are made using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N
    succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithiol) propionate, iminothiolane, bifunctional derivatives of
    imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl, active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate,
 .0 aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde, bis-azido compounds such as bis-(p-diazoniumbenzoyl)
    ethylenediamine), diisocyanates such as toluene 2,6-diisocyanate, and bis-active fluorine
    compounds (such as 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). C14 -labeled 1-isothiocyanobenzyl-3
    methyldiethylene triaminepentaacetic acid (MX-DTPA) is a chelating agent suitable for
    conjugation of radionuclide to the antibody.
 .5 The cytotoxin component of the immunoconjugate can be a chemotherapeutic agent, a
    therapeutic antibody, a toxin such as an enzymatically active toxin of bacterial, fungal, plant or
    animal origin, or fragments thereof, or a small molecule toxin, or a radioactive isotope such as
    212Bi, m,      In, mIn, 90Y, and 186Re, or any other agent that acts to inhibit the growth or
    proliferation of a cancer cell.
30  Chemotherapeutic agents useful in the generation of such drug conjugates include the
    maytansinoids including DM-1 and DM-4, auristatins, adriamycin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, 5
    fluorouracil, cytosine arabinoside ("Ara-C"), cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, busulfan, cytoxin,
    taxoids, e.g. paclitaxel, and docetaxel, taxotere, methotrexate, cisplatin, melphalan, vinblastine,
    bleomycin, etoposide, ifosamide, mitomycin C, mitoxantrone, vincristine, vinorelbine,
35  carboplatin, teniposide, daunomycin, carminomycin, aminopterin, dactinomycin, mitomycins,
    esperamicins, 5-FU, 6-thioguanine, 6-mercaptopurine, actinomycin D, VP-16, chlorambucil,
    melphalan, and other related nitrogen mustards. Also included are hormonal agents that act to
    regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as tamoxifen and onapristone. Toxins and
    fragments thereof which can be used include diphtheria A chain, nonbonding active fragments of
                                                       15

    diphtheria toxin, cholera toxin, botulinus toxin, exotoxin A chain (from Pseudomonas
    aeruginosa), ricin A chain, abrin A chain, modeccin A chain, alpha-sarcin, Aleurites fordii
    proteins, dianthin proteins, phytolaca Americana proteins (PAPI, PAPII, and PAP-S),
    Momordica charantia inhibitor, curcin, crotin, sapaonaria, officinalis inhibitor, gelonin, saporin,
  5 mitogellin, restrictocin, phenomycin, enomycin, and the tricothcenes. Small molecule toxins
    include, for example, calicheamicins, maytansinoids, palytoxin and CC 1065.
    Fusion proteins bind selectively to the target antigen, CD47, and are used, in accordance with an
    aspect of the invention, to screen cancer and other disease cells to detect those which present the
    CD47 antigen at high density. In a preferred embodiment, screening is applied to a sample of
 .0 cancer cells taken from a subject that is a candidate for SIRPaFc fusion protein therapy.
    Subjects testing positive for cancer cells that present the CD47 antigen at high density can then
    be scheduled for therapy with the present fusion protein, or a conjugate hybrid thereof. Standard
    techniques, combined with the fusion proteins herein described can be used to screen cancer
    cells. Desirably, the fusion protein incorporates a detectable label. The label may be detectable
 .5 by itself. (e.g., radio-isotope labels or fluorescent labels) or, in the case of an enzymatic label,
    may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or composition which is detectable.
                                                                                   131   123 125    90
    Radionuclides that can serve as detectable labels include, for example, I- , I_2 I12 Y- , Re
    188, Re-186, At-211, Cu-67, Bi-212, and Pd-109
    In situ detection of the binding to CD47+ cancer cells can be performed, using the present
 .0 antibody or fragment, by immunofluorescence or immunoelectron microscopy. For this purpose,
    a histological specimen is removed from the patient, and a labeled form of the fusion protein is
    applied to it, preferably by overlaying the antibody on a biological sample. This procedure also
    allows for distribution of the CD47 antigen to be examined within biopsied tumour tissue. It will
    be apparent for those skilled in the art that a wide variety of histological methods are readily
 .5 available for in situ detection.
    More particularly, SIRPaFc fusion proteins of the present invention may be used to monitor the
    presence or absence of fusion protein reactivity in a biological sample (e.g., a tissue biopsy, a
    cell, or fluid) using standard detection assays. Immunological assays may involve direct
    detection, and are particularly suited for screening large amounts of samples for the presence of
30  cancer cells that are CD47+. For example, the fusion protein can be used in the role of any
    antibody in any standard immunoassay format (e.g., ELISA, Western blot, immunoprecipitation,
    flow cytometry or RIA assay) to measure complex formation. Any appropriate label which may
    be directly or indirectly visualized may be utilized in these detection assays including, without
    limitation, any radioactive, fluorescent, chromogenic (e.g., alkaline phosphatase or horseradish
35  peroxidase), or chemiluminescent label, or hapten (for example, digoxigenin or biotin) which
    may be visualized using a labeled, hapten-specific antibody or other binding partner (e.g.,
    avidin). Exemplary immunoassays are described, e.g., in Ausubel et al., supra, Harlow and
    Lane, Antibodies: A Laboratory Approach, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York (1988),
    and Moynagh and Schimmel, Nature 400:105, 1999. For example, using the fusion proteins
                                                        16

    described herein, high density CD47 is readily detected at the cell surface using standard flow
    cytometry methods. Samples found to contain labeled complex compared to appropriate control
    samples are taken as indicating the presence of high density CD47, and are thus indicative of a
    cancer or other disease amenable to treatment with the present fusion proteins.
  5 It will be appreciated that the present fusion proteins comprise two molecules, each comprising a
    single chain polypeptide that incorporates a SIRPa protein component fused to an Fc component.
    Fusion of the single chain polypeptides to form a dimer results from disulfide bridges that form
    between the Fc components when the single chain polypeptides are secreted from the host cell
    producing them. Thus, the product recovered as a fusion protein is a dimeric protein resulting
 .0 from the disulfide linkage between two molecules of the single chain polypeptide incorporating
    both the Fc component and the SIRPa component.
    The present invention thus provides not only the single chain polypeptides in which the SIRPa
    protein component is fused with the Fc region, i.e., the CH component, but also provides a
    dimeric fusion protein in which two copies of these single chain polypeptides are fused via their
 .5 respective Fc components. Multimeric forms, in which more than two copies of each polypeptide
    are fused, are also within the scope of the invention.
    To produce the present SIRPaFc fusion proteins, DNA encoding a secretable form of the single
    chain polypeptide is obtained, incorporated within a suitable expression/secretion vector, and
    then transfected into a suitable production host. Culturing of the resulting transfectant yields the
 .0 dimeric fusion protein as a secreted product which can then be harvested and purified, all in
    general accordance with established practise, and as exemplified herein. A polypeptide in single
    chain form can be obtained similarly, but is produced without the aid of a secretion signal and in
    a host such as a prokaryote so that dimerization does not occur and the polypeptide is
    recoverable as an intracellular protein.
 .5 Accordingly, the present invention also provides polynucleotides, including DNA and RNA,
    which upon expression yield a secretable form of the single chain polypeptides that make up the
    present fusion proteins. A polynucleotide encoding a preferred and secretable single chain
    polypeptide comprises the DNA sequence having SEQ ID No.8, in which the first 90 residues
    encode the 30-mer secretion signal native to human SIRPa, and the remaining nucleic acid
30  residues (SEQ ID No. 7) encode the single chain FSIRPaFc polypeptide. Embodiments include
    polynucleotides in which one or more codons are substituted by codons synonymous with those
    illustrated.
    In related embodiments, there is provided a polynucleotide that encodes a secretable form of the
    IgG 1-based fusion protein having SEQ ID No. 25, the polynucleotide comprising SEQ ID No.27.
35  Also provided is a polynucleotide that encodes a secretable form of the IgG4-based fusion
    protein having SEQ ID No. 26, the polynucleotide comprising SEQ ID No.28.
                                                      17

    It will be appreciated that the polynucleotides can be synthesized de novo, using standard gene
    synthesis and cloning and amplification techniques to assemble the intact polynucleotides.
    Alternatively, and for example, a polynucleotide encoding the SIRPa protein component (e.g.,
    SEQ ID No. 5) and a polynucleotide encoding the selected Fc component (e.g., SEQ ID No. 6)
  5 can be obtained by PCR amplification from publicly available sources of these genes, and the
    amplified polynucleotides can be linked by ligation, either directly or through a linker that
    encodes one or more amino acid residues innocuous in terms of biological activity, all in
    accordance with established techniques, and as exemplified herein.
    For expression, a polynucleotide encoding the single chain polypeptide in secretable form is
 .0 incorporated within vectors such as plasmids suitable for expressing the polynucleotides in the
    chosen fusion protein production host. Such vectors are available commercially, and typically
    are constructed to permit introduction of the polynucleotide encoding the secretable fusion
    protein directly under the control of a promoter effective to drive expression in the chosen host.
    Host transfection procedures are well established in the art, and expression systems that include
 .5 vectors, and expression hosts for such vectors, are available commercially. These include the
    pcDNA vectors suitable for cotransfection into hosts 293, CHO or NSO, to express the fusion
    protein-encoding polynucleotides under control of the CMV promoter, available from Invitrogen,
    and the pTandem- 1 vector system for expressing fusion protein chains under the CMV promoter
    and from bicistronic RNA in 293, CHO or NSO hosts, also available from Invitrogen. Another
 .0 useful expression system, described in the examples herein, makes use of the CMV promoter and
    is available commercially from the Biotechnology Research Institute in Montreal, Canada.
    Suitable production hosts for the fusion proteins of the invention are cells that incorporate, either
    transiently or stably, a polynucleotide encoding the fusion-forming single chain polypeptide in
    secretable form. The expressed form of the fusion protein incorporates a signal sequence
 .5 enabling the secretion of each fusion protein chain from the host, thereby to permit the formation
    of desired disulfide linkages within and across the produced fusion protein chains, and provide a
    functional fusion protein. The secretion signal can be encoded by any such signal functional in
    the chosen host. In one embodiment, the secretion signal is the secretion signal normally
    associated with the SIRPa protein component.
30  Suitable mammalian host cells for expressing the recombinant fusion proteins of the invention
    include Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO cells, including dhfr-CHO cells and CHOcTA cells),
    NSO myeloma cells, SOS cells and SP2 cells. In a specific embodiment, the host is a CHO cell
    line, such as a CHO-S cell line. For use with NSO myeloma cells, another preferred expression
    system is the GS gene expression system disclosed in WO 87/04462, WO 89/01036 and EP
35  338,841. The fusion proteins are produced by culturing the transfected host cells for a period of
    time sufficient to allow for secretion of the fusion protein into the culture medium in which the
    host cells are grown. Fusion proteins can recovered from the culture medium using standard
    protein purification methods, all as now exemplified.
                                                       18

    Examples
    In the description of the work that follows, reference is made to fusion proteins by code. For
    convenience, the functional components of the referenced fusions are summarized below:
                                                         Table 1
      Protein     SIRPa Region                                                 Fc Region              ct itEyctor
      TTI-601     hSIRPa   VI,  3 domains (340 aa)                             hIgG4  (mut)         None
      TTI-602     hSIRPa   V2,  3 domains (339 aa)                             hIgG4  (mut)         None
      TTI-616     hSIRPa   V2,  1 domain (118 aa)                              hIgG4  (mut)         None
      TTI-620     hSIRPa   V2,  1 domain (114 aa)                              hIgG4  (WT)*         Low
      TTI-621     hSIRPa   V2,  1 domain (118 aa)                              hIgGi  (WT)          High
      TTI-622     hSIR13a  V2,  1 domain (118 aa)                              hIgG4  (WT)          Low
      TTI-623     hSIRPa   V2,  I domain (118 aa) FD6 mutations^               hIgG4  (mut)         None
      TTI-624     hSIRPa   V2,  1 domain (118 aa) CV1 mutations^               hIgG4  (mut)         None
      R&D**       hSIRPa   VI,  3 domains (339 aa)                             hIgGi  (WT)          High
  5 All human IgG4 Fc regions possess the hinge-stabilizing Sm2XP mutation, except where indicated with an asterisk (*)
    IgG4 Fes designated as "mut" contain mutations at positions 233-236 (EU numbering system) that further reduce
    Fc7R binding (Armour et al. 1999 Eur. J. Immunol. 29:2613). ^FD6 mutations (L4V, V61, A271, 131F, E47V,
    K53R, E54Q, H56P, V631, L66T, K68R, V921) and CV1 mutations (V61, A271, 131F, E47V, K53R, E54Q, H56P,
    L66T, V921) described in Weiskopf et al. 2013 Science 341:88. **Commercially available protein sold by R&D
 .0 Systems (Cat #4546-SA-050).
    1.      SIRPa-Fc fusion protein production
    The SIRPaFc constructs were generated by a three-stage cloning process, using the primers
 .5 shown below:
    P#5863: GGCGCTAGCCACCATGGAGC                                                   SEQ ID No.9
    P#5929:   GGTGAAGCTCACTGTGTGCTG                                                SEQ   ID  No.10
    P#5930:   CAGCACACAGTGAGCTTCACC                                                SEQ   ID  No.11
zo  P#1035:   CCGGATCCTCATTTACCCAG                                                 SEQ   ID  No.12
    P#0874:   GGACTCAGAGGGTTTGGCACGCACAGA                                          SEQ   ID  No.13
    P#0875:   CCCTCTGAGTCCAAATATGGTCCCCCA                                          SEQ   ID  No.14
    P#4197:   AGTTTTGTCAGAGGGTTTGGCACGCACAGA                                       SEQ   ID  No.15
    P#4198:   AAACCCTCTGACAAAACTCACACATGCCCA                                       SEQ   ID  No.16
25  P#1737:   CACGGATCCTCATTTACCCGG                                                SEQ   ID  No.17
    P#4195: AGGTGCTGGGCATGGTGGGCATGGGGG                                            SEQ ID No.18
    P#4196: CCCCCATGCCCACCATGCCCAGCACCT                                            SEQ ID No.19
    P#2058: CACGGATCCTCATTTACCCAGAGACAGGG                                          SEQ ID No.20
30  In the first PCR reaction, 100 ng of template DNA (synthetic human SIRPa GenBank
    #AAH26692, from Blue Heron Biotechnology) was amplified using platinum Pfx DNA
    polymerase (Invitrogen) in 1 mM MgSO 4 , 0.4 mM each dNTP and 20 pmol of each primer,
    according to the conditions below:
                                                            19

    TTI-602: primers P#5863 and P#5929; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 1 min, 56'C for 2 min, and 68'C for 2 min.
  5 TTI-616: primers P#5863 and P#0874; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 1 min, 50'C for 1.5 min, and 63'C for 3 min.
    TTI-621: primers P#5863 and P#4197; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 0.5 min, 50'C for 1.5 min, and 63'C for 3 min.
 .0
    TTI-622: primers P#5863 and P#4195; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 0.5 min, 50'C for 1.5 min, and 63'C for 3 min.
    The reactions were then held at 72'C for 10 min and cooled to 4'C. The reaction products were
 .5 electrophoresed through 1-1.4% agarose gels and visualized with ethidium bromide.
    Next, the IgG Fc fragments were amplified in reaction PCR2, using Pfx DNA polymerase
    (Invitrogen), in 1 mM MgSO 4 , 0.4 mM each dNTP, 20 pmol of each primer and 100 ng of
    template DNA (human IgG1 and human IgG4, previously cloned) under the following
 .0 conditions:
    TTI-602: primers P#5930 and P#1035; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 1 min, 56'C for 2 min, and 72'C for 2 min.
 .5 TTI-616: primers P#0875 and P#1035; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 1 min, 50'C for 1.5 min, and 63'C for 3 min.
    TTI-621: primers P#4198 and P#1737; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 0.5 min, 60'C for 0.5 min, and 68'C for 0.5 min.
30
    TTI-622: primers P#4196 and P#2058; initial melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles
    consisting of 94'C for 0.5 min, 50'C for 1.5 min, and 63'C for 3 min.
    The reactions were then held at 72'C for 10 min and cooled to 4'C. The reaction products were
35  electrophoresed through 1-1.4% agarose gels and visualized with ethidium bromide.
    Finally, the SIRPa and Fe cDNA was assembled by overlapping PCR in reaction PCR3.
    Products from PCR1 and PCR2 (100 ng) were incubated with platinum Pfx DNA polymerase
    (Invitrogen), in 1 mM MgSO 4 , and 0.4 - 0.8 mM each dNTP at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 10
40  cycles consisting of 94'C for 30 sec - 1 min, then 52-60'C for 80 sec - 3min, and cooled to 4'C.
                                                    20

    Primers (20 - 40 pmol each) were then added to first reaction and a second-stage reaction run
    under the following conditions: melting at 94'C for 5 min, followed by 30 cycles consisting of
    94'C for 30 sec - 1 min, 50-56'C for 30 sec -3 min and 30 sec. The details of each condition are
    below:
  5
    TTI-602: 10 cycles at 94'C for 1 min and 56'C for 3 min, followed by 30 cycles of 94'C for 1
    min, 55'C for 2.5 min, and 72'C for 3 min using primers P#5863 and P#1035.
    TTI-616: No first PCR cycle; 30 cycles of 94'C for 1 min, 50'C for 2 min, and 63'C for 3.5 min
 .0 using primers P#5863 and P#1035.
    TTI-621: 10 cycles at 94'C for 1 min and 52'C for 3 min, followed by 30 cycles of 94'C for 1
    min, 52'C for 2 min, and 63'C for 4 min using primers P#5863 and P#1737.
 .5 TTI-622: 10 cycles at 94'C for 1 min and 60'C for 3 min, followed by 30 cycles of 94'C for 1
    min, 52'C for 2 min, and 63'C for 4 min using primers P#5863 and P#2058.
    The reactions were then held at 68-72'C for 7-8 min and cooled to 4'C. The reaction products
    were separated through 1-1.4% agarose gels and visualized with ethidium bromide and ligated
  0 into the pMPG expression vector (Biotechnology Research Institute in Montreal, Canada) as
    follows: The DNA band of interest from PCR amplification was excised and purified from
    agarose gel by using QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen). This purified PCR product was
    digested with NheI and BamHI restriction enzymes (New England BioLabs) and purified from
    gel using the Qiaquick gel Purification Kit (Qiagen). The fragment was then ligated by T4 DNA
  5 ligase (Invitrogen) into the pMPG expression plasmid that had been similarly digested with NheI
    and BamHI enzymes. The pMPG plasmid uses a CMV promoter and TK Poly A terminator and
    contains hygromycin resistance selection marker. 2 pl of the ligation reaction was then
    transformed into 25 tl of competent E. coli DH5a cells (Invitrogen) according the manufacturer
    instructions. Transformants were spread on LB-agar plates containing 100 tg/ml ampicillin
30  (Sigma), followed by incubation at 37'C for 20 hours. Plasmid DNA was extracted and purified
    from small-scale E. coli cultures by using the QlAprep Spin mini-prep Kit (Qiagen), and the
    DNA sequence was confirmed by automated sequencing using fluorescent dye-conjugated
    ddNTPs (Core Molecular Biology Facility, York University). For transfections, large quantities
    of plasmid DNA were prepared using the EndoFree Plasmid Maxi kit (Qiagen), then the
35  sequence reconfirmed by automated sequencing using fluorescent dye-conjugated ddNTPs (Core
    Molecular Biology Facility, York University).
    Cell line Production
    Stable transfectants were generated using CHO-S cell line (Invitrogen). Briefly, plasmid DNA
40  isolated was linearized by XbaI (New England BioLabs), and purified using QIAGEN columns
                                                    21

    (Qiagen). CHO-S cells growing in serum-free chemical defined medium (CD-CHO, Invitrogen)
    supplemented with 8 mM L-glutamine and 1xHT-supplement were transfected with the
    linearized plasmid using Lipofectamine 2000 reagent (Invitrogen). After 48 hours, the cells were
    transferred into 96-well plates and plated out at different concentrations (10000, 5000, or 2000
  5 cells/well) in medium containing 600 pig/mL of hygromycin B (Invitrogen). Mock transfection
    control was carried out in identical fashion with no DNA added to the mix. 2-3 weeks following
    transfection a panel of drug-resistant oligoclones was picked up and the supernatants from a 48
    hr expression study were screened by ELISA as follows: 96-well plates were coated with 0.1
      tg/well of capture Ab (goat anti-human IgGFc), and incubated overnight at 4'C. The wells were
 .0 washed and blocked with 200pl of 2% BSA in PBST at room temperature for 1 hour. After
    washing, 100 pl samples were diluted with 1%BSA in PBST, added to the wells, incubated for 1
    hour, washed and then incubated with HRP-conjugated detection Ab (HRP-conjugated goat anti
    human IgGFc), for 1 hour at room temperature. The wells were then washed and TMB substrate
    (Moss Inc.) added and incubated for 3 to 5 min at room temperature. Absorbance was measured
 .5 at 450 nm/655 nm wavelength using iMark microplate reader (Biorad), and a standard curve was
    constructed using known amount of purified fusion protein. A second limiting dilution of the 3
    highest expressing oligo-clones was performed at lower cell concentrations (0.1, 0.25, and 0.5
    cells/well) in complete CD-CHO medium containing 600 pg/ml of hygromycin B. After 2 to 3
    weeks, the drug-resistant clones were again assessed for recombinant protein production by
 .0 ELISA as described above. The productivity was expressed in pg/cell/day and was in the range
    of 1.4 - 23.9 pg/cell/day for the human SIRPa fusion proteins. The highest expressing single cell
    clones were used for supernatant batch production in a WAVE Bioreactor system. In some
    instances before the single clone stage was reached, the best oligo clone was used for production.
 .5 Protein Purification
    For rapid production of small lots of proteins, some SIRPc-Fc batches were made in transiently
    transfected 293F cells. Briefly, FreeStyle 293F cells (Invitrogen) were grown in 293F medium
    (Invitrogen), transfected with non-linearized plasmid DNA and 293Fectin reagent (Invitrogen)
    and grown in shaker flask batches in volumes 80-100 mL/flask at 37'C, 5% CO 2 for 3-6 days.
30  Cell density and viability were monitored every day until cell viability dropped to ~90%. Cell
    viability at batch harvest was in the range 8 5 -9 0 %.
    For purification from CHO-S cells, 5 or 10 L culture supernatant was generated from stably
    transfected high expressing oligo or single cell clones in a WAVE disposable bag bioreactor
35  system Base20/50 EHT (GE Healthcare). Briefly, CHO-S transfectants were grown in static
    T150 flasks in completed growth medium (CD-CHO supplemented with 8 mM L-glutamine,
    1xHT-supplement, and 600 pg/mL of hygromycin B ) at 37'C to produce sufficient cell numbers
    to initiate a 1 L or a 2 L culture at 0.5x106 cells/mL for a 5 L or a 10 L run respectively. The
    bioreactor bag was inoculated and the cells were then incubated at 37'C, 10% C0 2 , rocking
40  speed 15-20 rpm, angle 70, and air flow 0.2-0.4 Lpm. When the culture reached a density of 2 to
                                                        22

    2.5x 106 cells/mL (usually within 2-3 days of inoculation), the bioreactor was further scaled up to
    5 L or 10 L and incubated further at 37'C, 10% C0 2 , rocking speed 15-20, angle 70, air flow 0.2
    0.4 Lpm. When the cells have reached a density of 1 - 1.5x 106 cells/mL the temperature was
    dropped to 30'C and culture was further incubated for additional 7 to 10 days at the conditions
  5 specified above. Starting on day 0 at 30'C the cultures were fed with 1% CHO feed bioreactor
    supplement (Sigma) every two days and were harvested when the cell viability dropped around
    90%. The supernatant was collected, centrifuged at 3000 x g for 40 min at 4'C and frozen at
    20'C until purification.
 .0 All proteins were purified by a two-step procedure, first using protein A chromatography. Buffer
    exchanged supernatant was diluted 9-fold with binding buffer (20 mM Na-P & 3 M NaCl, pH
    7.8) and loaded onto a rProtein A column (GE Healthcare) at a flow rate of 2-3 mL/min
    (depending on loading volume and loading time) overnight at 4'C. The column was then washed
    with binding buffer (20 volumes at 3 mL/min), and protein eluted with 0.1 M citric acid pH 4.0
 .5 and pH 2.2 at 3 mL/min. Eluted material was pH adjusted to neutral with IM and subsequently
    purified using HiTrap Phenyl HP chromatograph. Briefly, proteins were diluted at least 4-fold to
    0.2 M ammonium sulphate pH 7.5 and loaded onto the HiTrap Phenyl HP column (GE
    Healthcare) at 2-3 mL/min (depending on column size and loading time). Non-aggregated
    SIRPaFc protein was collected in the flow-through fraction. Tangential flow filtration using a
 .0 BioMax 10 membrane (Millipore) was used to concentrate and buffer exchange the protein into
    PBS pH 7.4. The quality of each protein was determined by SDS-PAGE, Western blot using goat
    anti-IgGFc antibody and rabbit anti-goat IgG HRP conjugate, and HPLC analysis. The identity
    of all proteins was confirmed by N-terminal sequencing and mass spectrometry.
 .5 1. Comparison of one and three domain SIRPaFe fusions
    SIRPa consists of three extracellular immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains, however binding to
    CD47 is localized to the N-terminal domain. To determine the optimal SIRPa region for
    SIRPctFc fusions, we generated proteins incorporating either all three extracellular SIRPa
    domains (TTI-602) or the single N-terminal domain (TTI-616).
30  Both proteins were constructed on a mutated human IgG4 Fc backbone that lacks effector
    function. We compared the binding of TTI-602 and TTI-616 to human CD47 using a direct
    binding assay (Figure 1A) and an indirect competition assay (Figure IB). For the direct binding
    assay, CD47+ human Jurkat cells were incubated with the various concentrations (as indicated)
    of hSIRPuFc proteins on ice for 1 hour. The cells were then washed to remove any unbound
35  protein and then incubated with an anti-hIgG Fcg specific (Fab') 2 FITC antibody on ice for 1
    hour. The cells were then washed and fixed by incubating with a 2% paraformaldehyde solution
    overnight. The fixing solution was then washed off and the cells were analyzed by flow
    cytometry (BD FACScan). Data was fit to a one site binding model using nonlinear regression.
    For the indirect assay, a fixed, saturating amount of biotinylated human SIRPcaFc (TTI-601) was
40  incubated either alone or with titrated amounts of TTI-602 or TTI-616 for 15 min on ice. This
                                                    23

    mixture was then added to human CD47+ Jurkat cells, incubated on ice for 1 hour, washed to
    remove unbound protein, and then incubated with a saturating amount of streptavidin-PE on ice
    in the dark for lhr. The cells were then washed, fixed and analyzed by flow cytometry as above.
    The geometric means were then normalized, with 100% inhibition being the geometric mean of
  5 the Streptavidin-PE alone and 0% inhibition being the geometric mean of the Biotinylated
    TTI601 alone. A line of best fit was obtained by nonlinear regression analysis using the
    sigmoidal dose-response curve fit (Prism, Graphpad).
    The data in Figures 1A and 1B clearly show a binding difference between TTI-602 and TTI-616,
    with TTI-616 binding with higher affinity in both assays. In the direct binding assay, TTI-616
 .0 bound with 10-fold higher affinity than TTI-602 (EC50 values: 13.4 nM versus 139 nM). In the
    indirect binding assay, TTI-616 bound with 7-fold higher affinity than TTI-602 (EC5 o values: 4.5
    nM versus 32.1 nM). These results were unexpected, as previously published data indicate that
    the N-terminal domain of SIRPa bound to CD47 with comparable affinity to SIRPa containing
    all three extracellular domains (Hatherley et al. 2007 J. Biol. Chem. 282:14567).
 .5 2. Design of human SIRPaFc fusions with different Fc regions
    Having established a preference for a fusion protein incorporating a single SIRPa domain,
    studies were conducted to determine the optimal Fc region. Three different human SIRPaFc
    fusions were generated that contain the same SIRPa region (31-148) but were constructed on
    different Fc components which have varying effector activity. The design details are summarized
 .0 in Table 2 below. The annotated DNA and protein sequences are shown in Appendix 1.
             Table 2. Design of human SIRPaFc fusion proteins.
    TTI-621        V2 IgV domain          Human IgG 1 (lower hinge-CH2-CH3 domains)             High
    TTI-622        V2 IgV domain          Human IgG4 (hinge-CH2-CH3 domains) with Ser-          Low
                                          Pro mutation at position 158*     (l.
    TTI-616        V2 IgV domain          Human IgG4 (hinge-CH2-CH3 domains) with               None
                                          mutations: Ser158Pro*; Glul63Pro; Phe164 Val;
                                          Leul65Ala; and deletion of Gly166**
    *Corresponds to position 228 in EU numbering system, and is intended to stabilize the IgG4 hinge region and
    prevent formation of intrachain disulfides leading to monomer formation (Angal et al. 1993 Mol. Immunol. 30:105)
    **Corresponds to positions 233-236 in EU numbering system, and is intended to further reduce Fcy receptor binding
25  (Armour et al. 1999 Eur. J. Immunol. 29:2613).
    3. Binding of SIRPaFe fusions to CD47
    The three SIRPaFc fusions were compared for binding to cell surface human CD47. Briefly,
30  CD47+ human Jurkat cells were incubated with the various concentrations (as indicated) of
    hSIRPaFc proteins on ice for 1 hour. The cells were then washed to remove any unbound protein
    and then incubated with an anti-hIgG Fcg specific (Fab') 2 FITC antibody on ice for 1 hour. The
                                                              24

    cells were then washed and fixed by incubating with a 2% paraformaldehyde solution overnight.
    The fixing solution was then washed off and the cells were analyzed by flow cytometry (BD
    FACScan). The geometric means were then normalized and the binding curves and Kd values
    were generated by Prism (Graphpad) using nonlinear regression fitting the data to a one site
  5 binding model.
    As shown in Figure 2, the three fusion proteins showed very similar binding profiles, producing
    nearly identical affinity binding (Kd) values (2.3-2.4 nM). This was expected, as all three
    proteins contain the same SIRPa region and the Fe region was not predicted to affect ligand
    binding.
 .0 4. In vitro pro-phagocytosis activity of SIRPaFc fusions
    Blockade of CD47 by SIRPaFc enhances the phagocytosis of human acute myeloid leukemia
    (AML) tumor cells by activated human macrophages. The pro-phagocytic activity of the three
    fusion proteins was compared in vitro to determine if the Fc region affects AML phagocytosis.
 .5 Human macrophages were generated by first isolating CD14+ monocytes from Ficoll-purified
    human peripheral blood mononuclear cells using magnetic selection. Monocytes were cultured in
    X-vivo media containing human monocyte colony stimulating factor at 20 ng/ml for at least 1
    week to promote development into macrophages. The macrophages were then plated onto glass
    slides in a 24-well culture plate and incubated with human interferon gamma overnight. The next
 .0 day, the wells were washed and LPS was added for at least 1 hour. Human AML cells were
    counted and labelled with CFSE. After labelling, the AML cells were incubated for 15 min at
    room temperature (RT) with PBS, SIRPaFc proteins or isotype controls. The AML cells were
    then added to the individual wells, mixed and incubated in a 37'C, 5% CO 2 humidified cell
    incubator for 2 hours. After the incubation, the wells were washed and the macrophages were
 .5 labelled with the wheat germ agglutinin Alexa Fluor@ 555 conjugate (Invitrogen, cat# W32464)
    for 15 min at RT with rocking. The wells were then washed and fixed with 2%
    paraformaldehyde for 30 min at RT. The wells were then washed and kept in dark at 4'C
    overnight. The glass slides were analyzed by scanning confocal microscopy (Quorum Wave FX
    X1 Spinning Disc Confocal System, Quorum Technologies, Guelph, ON, Canada). The
30  phagocytosis of AML cells was quantified using a phagocytosis index, as follows: (number of
    AML cells inside macrophages/number of macrophages) x 100; counting at least 200
    macrophages per sample. As shown in Figure 3, TTI-621 and TTI-622 exhibit similar pro
    phagocytosis activity, whereas TTI-616 is clearly weaker (this is particularly evident at the 10
    nM dose). This indicates either a wild type IgG4 or IgG1 Fc region is required for maximal
35  SIRPaFc-triggered tumor cell killing by macrophages.
    An expanded panel of SIRPaFc fusion proteins was evaluated for phagocytosis activity using the
    AML cell line OCI/AML-2 as targets. As shown in Figure 6, the data clearly indicate that the
    highest level of AML-2 phagocytosis is induced by fusion proteins containing a single SIRPL
                                                     25

    domain and a wild type IgG4 or IgGI Fc region (i.e., TTI-622, -620 or TTI-621). Fusion proteins
    lacking any Fc effector function (e.g., TTI-616) can trigger phagocytosis, but the effect is
    considerably weaker. This is consistent with the data reported in Figure 3. SIRPaFe with three
    extracellular domains (TTI-601, TTI-602 and R&D) also exhibit only a low level of pro
  5 phagocytic activity, and in the case of the R&D fusion this poor activity cannot be overcome
    with an IgGI Fc region. In addition, fusion proteins containing mutated SIRPU sequences that
    confer substantially higher CD47 binding (TTI-623 and TTI-624) do not result in higher
    phagocytosis activity compared to a wild type SIRPaFc bearing the same Fc region (TTI-616).
    These results suggest that increasing the CD47 binding affinity beyond the level achieved with a
 .0 wild type single SIRPa domain does not result in any further benefit in vitro. This conclusion is
    unexpected, as it was reported that FD6 and CVI mutated SIRPa linked to IgG4 Fc have greater
    pro-phagocytic activity than wild type SIRPa-IgG4 (Weiskopf et al. 2013 Science 341:88).
    5.      In vivo anti-leukemic activity of SIRPaFc fusions
    The three SIRPaFc fusion proteins were tested for their ability to control the growth of human
 .5 AML tumor cells in a standard xenotransplantation model. NOD/ShiLtJ-Prkdcscid (NOD.SCID)
    mice (8-12 weeks old) were sublethally irradiated with 275 cGy from a 137Cs y-irradiator 24
    hours before intrafemoral injection of AML cells collected from a human leukemia patient.
    Starting three weeks after transplantation, mice were treated with SIRPaFc fusion proteins (8
    mg/kg IP three times per week) or equimolar doses of control Fc proteins TTI-401 (mutated
  0 human IgG4) or TTI-402 (human IgG1). After 4 weeks of treatment, mice were sacrificed and
    human leukemia cells in the injected femur, non-injected bone marrow and spleen detected by
    flow cytometric analysis, staining for expression of human CD45 and human CD33 markers. The
    AML engraftment was expressed as the percentage of human CD45+CD33+ cells in each
    compartment.
 .5 As shown in Figure 4, the TTI-621 fusion protein bearing an IgGI Fc region was the only protein
    capable of mediating an anti-leukemic effect at the site of transplantation (the injected femur). In
    the non-injected bone marrow, there was a clear Fc dependent effect, with TTI-621 (full Fc
    activity) > TTI-622 (low Fc activity) > TTI-616 (no Fc activity). All three fusion proteins
    exhibited anti-leukemic activity in the spleen, although this site is a less rigorous test of activity,
30  as the overall engraftment level (as seen in control mice) is much lower than in the injected or
    non-injected bone marrow. Collectively, these results indicate that a SIRPaFc protein bearing a
    human IgGI Fc region has the greatest activity in a human AML xenotransplantation model. The
    superior in vivo activity of the IgG 1-based fusion would not have been predicted based on the in
    vitro phagocytosis data (Figure 2), in which TTI-621 and TTI-622 showed similar activity.
35  6. Hemagglutination activity of SIRPaFc fusions
    Human red blood cells were prepared using heparinized whole blood from healthy donors. 4 mL
    whole blood was pipetted in a l5mL conical tube, topped up with phosphate buffered saline
                                                     26

    (PBS) and centrifuged at 200 x g, room temperature for 10 minutes to remove the platelets. After
    aspiration of the platelet fraction the tube was topped up to 15mL with PBS, the content mixed
    well by inverting the tube and the RBCs were packed by centrifugation at 1500 rpm for 5
    minutes. This wash was repeated 3 more times. After the final wash the supernatant was
  5 aspirated and enough PBS was added to the packed erythrocytes to make a 10% RBC solution
    (for example, if 1mL packed RBCs were obtained they were further diluted with 9mL PBS to
    make a 10% RBC solution). 10% RBC solution stored at 4C was usable within a week. A fresh
    1% RBC solution was made immediately prior to the hemagglutination assay.
    SIRPaFc proteins expressed in either CHO or 293 cells were analyzed for their ability to
 .0 agglutinate human RBCs as evidenced by RBC aggregation and prevention of RBC pellet
    formation. The assay was performed in 96-well non-tissue culture treated, low protein binding
    round bottom plates. A fresh 1% RBC solution was made immediately prior to the
    hemagglutination assay. 50 pL of 1% RBC solution was transferred to each well. 3-fold serially
    diluted human SIRPa-Fc fusion proteins starting at 3 pM final concentration or vehicle control
 .5 were added at 50 pL per well to the appropriate wells. Wells were mixed gently and incubated
    overnight at 37*C, 5% CO 2 . After an overnight incubation the plates were photographed. In the
    absence of crosslinking, the erythrocytes roll to the bottom of the wells and appear as a tight
    pellet. Evidence of hemagglutination is demonstrated by the presence of non-settled RBCs
    appearing as a haze compared to a well-defined RBC pellet. SIRPa fusion proteins that trigger
 .0 hemagglutination will prevent the formation of an RBC pellet and thus produce a diffuse or hazy
    pattern. Results indicate that the three-domain SIRPaFc fusion proteins TTI-601 and TTI-602
    show an increased propensity to induce hemagglutination compared to single-domain fusions.
    This suggests that single-domain SIRPaFes would be less likely to cause RBC toxicity in vivo.
    7. CD47 agonist activity of SIRPaFc fusions
 .5 Human Jurkat T cells Clone E6-1 were purchased from ATCC (Cat# TIB-152) and grown in
    RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% FBS, 2mM L-glutamine, 1mM sodium pyruvate, 10mM
    HEPES, and 1.5g/L sodium bicarbonate. CD47 expression was analysed by flow cytometry by
    demonstrating cell surface binding of anti-CD47 mAbs clones B6H12, 2D3, BRIC126, and
    CC2C6. The day prior to an agonist assay Jurkat cells were seeded at ~3x105 cells/mL in a
30  complete growth media in T75/T150 tissue culture flask.
    Highly viable (>95%) Jurkat T cells were harvested and plated out in a complete growth media at
    2x10 5 cells/200pL per well in a round bottom 96-well tissue culture plate. Cells were pre-treated
    with either medium alone or a CD47-blocking antibody clone B6H12 at 12.5tg/20tL per well
    for 1 hour at 37'C, 5% CO 2 . SIRPaFc fusion proteins or control Fcs were added at 3 pM final
35  concentration in 20pL/well and the pro-apoptotic agent staurosporine was used as a positive
    control was added at 1 pM in 20pL/well. Untreated cells (UT) received 20pL/well media alone.
    Cells were incubated overnight at 37'C, 5% CO 2 . After an overnight incubation the cells were
    stained with Annexin-V:FITC/7-AAD apoptosis detection kit from eBiosciences (Cat# 88-8005
                                                     27

    75) following manufacturer's instructions and analyzed by flow cytometry within 4 hours of
    staining to prevent the progression of apoptosis.
    As shown in Figure 5, TTI-602, a three-domain fusion, induced a much greater level of Jurkat
    apoptosis than the single-domain fusion proteins TTI-616 and TTI-620. The effect of TTI-602
  5 was clearly CD47-specific, as it was neutralized by pre-treating the cells with B6H12, a CD47
    blocking antibody. These results indicate that a single domain SIRPaFc fusion protein is
    preferred over a three-domain SIRPaFc to minimize CD47 agonist activity.
    8.      Erythrocyte Binding
    One concern with CD47-based therapies is the expression of the target on the surface of red
 .0 blood cells (RBCs), which has the potential to act as a large antigen sink and cause
    hematological toxicity. Indeed, anemia has been reported in animals treated with high affinity
    SIRPaFcs variants and CD47-specific antibodies. The binding of SIRPatFc fusion proteins to
    human erythrocytes was therefore assessed by flow cytometry. Human RBCs were prepared
    using heparinized whole blood. Whole blood was centrifuged at 200 x g, room temperature for
 .5 10 minutes to remove the platelets. After aspiration of the platelet fraction the tube was topped
    up to the original volume with PBS, the content mixed well by inverting the tube and the RBCs
    were pelleted by centrifugation at 1500 rpm for 5 minutes. This wash was repeated 3-5 more
    times. After the final wash the supernatant was aspirated and the tube was topped up with PBS
    up to the original blood volume. RBCs were counted using haemocytometer and resuspended at
  0 5x10 8 cells/mL prior to RBC binding assay. The purity the erythrocytes was assessed by flow
    cytometry demonstrating anti-human CD235a (eBiosciences Cat #12-9978).
    It was observed that fusion proteins containing wild type SIRPa sequences bind very poorly to
    human erythrocytes, producing a signal that is less than 2-fold above background even at high
    concentrations. In contrast, CD47 monoclonal antibodies typically bind at >100-fold above
 .5 background. The striking difference in RBC binding between SIRPaFc and CD47 antibodies is
    shown in Figure 7A, which compares the binding of TTI-616 to the CD47 antibody B6H12 over
    a range of concentrations. To demonstrate that this phenomenon is not unique to B6H12, three
    additional CD47 antibodies (2D3, BRIC126 and CC2C6) were evaluated. As shown in Figure
    7B, all four antibodies bound human RBCs at dramatically higher levels than SIRPaFc. Note that
30  SIRPaFc fusion proteins bind poorly to human RBCs regardless of Fc isotype or one- or three
    domain structure (data not shown). Furthermore, the difference in erythrocyte binding between
    SIRPaFc and CD47 antibodies does not simply reflect a difference in CD47 affinity, as both
    classes of proteins bind similarly to an AML tumor cell line (See Figure 7C).
    Several unexpected results were obtained from these studies. First, the superior binding affinity
35  of single domain SIRPaFc compared to a three-domain SIRPcFc is not consistent with the
    published literature. Second, the strong role for the Fc region in the elimination of leukemic cells
    in vivo is inconsistent with data published by others, who have argued that the efficacy of CD47
                                                      28

   antibodies is due to blockade of the CD47- SIRPa. interaction. As well, the superior in vivo
   efficacy of TTI-621 (IgG1) would not be predicted based on the in vitro phagocytosis data.
   Moreover, the very low binding of single domain SIRPaFc to erythrocytes, and the low CD47
   agonist activity, all support the medical use of the SIRPaFc taught herein in preference to other
 5 CD47 inhibitors.
   Collectively, these data indicate that an optimal human SIRPxFc fusion protein should contain a
   single (N-terminal) SIRPa domain linked to an effector competent Fc region, such as the Fc
   region of a human IgG 1 preferably, or the Fc region of a human IgG4 suitably.
   Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", or
.0 variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated step or element or integer or group of steps or elements or integers but not the exclusion of
   any other step or element or integer or group of elements or integers.
   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
   included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these
.5 matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to
   the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended claims.
                                                     29

    WE CLAIM:
    1.   A human SIRPct fusion protein useful to inhibit the growth and/or proliferation of a
         CD47+ disease cell, the fusion protein having negligible CD47 agonism and negligible
         red blood cell binding, the fusion protein comprising a human SIRPa domain effective to
  5      bind human CD47 with an affinity that is at least five fold greater than the affinity of the
         entire extracellular region of human SIRPac, and a human IgG constant region (Fc)
         having effector function, the potency of the fusion protein being at least 5 fold greater
         than the potency of a SIRPaFc fusion formed from an Fc region lacking effector
         function, wherein the human SIRPa domain is an IgV domain comprising residues 32
 .0      137 [SEQ ID No.1] of human SIRPa variant 2.
    2.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 1, wherein the human SIRPa domain
         consists of residues 31-148 [SEQ ID No.22] of human SIRPa variant 2.
    3.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the Fc having
         effector function is selected from (a) a constant region of a human IgG1 antibody, and (b)
 .5      a constant region of a human IgG4 antibody.
    4.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 3, wherein the Fc having effector
         function is a constant region of a human IgG 1 antibody
    5.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 4, wherein the constant region of a
         human IgGI antibody comprises SEQ ID No. 2.
 .0 6.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 5, comprising SEQ ID No.3.
    7.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 5, comprising SEQ ID No. 25.
    8.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 3, wherein the Fc having effector
         function is a constant region of a human IgG4 antibody.
    9.   The human SIRPa fusion protein according to claim 8, wherein the Fc comprises a
25       Ser228Pro (EU) mutation.
    10.  The fusion protein according to claim 9, wherein the Fc comprises SEQ ID No.24.
    11.  The fusion protein according to claim 10, comprising SEQ ID No. 26.
    12.  The fusion protein according to claims 1-11, further comprising a detectable label.
    13.  A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and an
30       amount of a fusion protein according to any of claims 1-11 effective to inhibit the growth
         or proliferation of a CD47+ disease cell.
                                                   30

   14. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 13, wherein the fusion protein
       comprises SEQ ID No. 25.
   15. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 13, wherein the fusion protein
       comprises SEQ ID No. 26.
 5 16. A method for inhibiting growth of CD47+ disease cells in a subject in need thereof,
       comprising the step of administering thereto a composition according to any one of
       claims 13-15.
   17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the disease cell is a CD47+ cancer cell.
   18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the disease cell is a CD47+ hematological
.0     cancer cell.
   19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the disease cell is a CD47+ leukemia cell.
   20. The method according to claim 17, wherein the disease cell is a solid tumour comprising
       CD47+ cancer cells.
   19. A DNA construct comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human SIRPa fusion
.5     protein according to any one of claims 1-10.
   20. A protein production host cell, comprising an expressibly incorporated DNA construct
       according 19.
   21. A method for producing a human SIRPu fusion protein, comprising culturing a protein
       production host cell having incorporated for expression therein a polynucleotide that
.0     encodes a human SIRPaFc fusion protein according to any one of claims 1-11.
                                               31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                          SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Trillium Therapeutics Inc.
                      Uger, Robert Adam
                      Slavova-Petrova, Penka Slavtcheva
                      Pang, Xinli
              <120>   Treatment of CD47+ Disease Cells with SIRP Alpha-Fc Fusions
              <130>   05010237-1PCT
              <140>   PCT/CA2013/001046
<removed-apn>
              <141>   2013-12-16
              <150>   61/738,008
              <151>   2012-12-17
              <160>   28
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   106
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   1
              Glu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Gln Pro Asp Lys Ser Val Ser Val Ala Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Glu Ser Ala Ile Leu His Cys Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Ile Pro Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Pro Ile Gln Trp Phe Arg Gly Ala Gly Pro Ala Arg Glu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asn Gln Lys Glu Gly His Phe Pro Arg Val Thr Thr Val Ser Glu
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Thr Lys Arg Glu Asn Met Asp Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile Ser Asn Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Pro Ala Asp Ala Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Val Lys Phe Arg Lys Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Pro Asp Thr Glu Phe Lys Ser Gly Ala
                          100                 105
              <210>   2
              <211>   227
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens

              <400>   2
<removed-date>
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gly Lys
              225

              <210>   3
<removed-date>
              <211>   345
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   3
              Glu Glu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Gln Pro Asp Lys Ser Val Ser Val Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ala Gly Glu Ser Ala Ile Leu His Cys Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Ile Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Gly Pro Ile Gln Trp Phe Arg Gly Ala Gly Pro Ala Arg Glu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Tyr Asn Gln Lys Glu Gly His Phe Pro Arg Val Thr Thr Val Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Ser Thr Lys Arg Glu Asn Met Asp Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile Ser Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ile Thr Pro Ala Asp Ala Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Val Lys Phe Arg Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Ser Pro Asp Thr Glu Phe Lys Ser Gly Ala Gly Thr Glu Leu Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Arg Ala Lys Pro Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys

                  210                 215                 220
<removed-date>
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
<removed-apn>
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          340                 345
              <210>   4
              <211>   375
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   4
              Met Glu Pro Ala Gly Pro Ala Pro Gly Arg Leu Gly Pro Leu Leu Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Leu Leu Ala Ala Ser Cys Ala Trp Ser Gly Val Ala Gly Glu Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Gln Pro Asp Lys Ser Val Ser Val Ala Ala Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Ala Ile Leu His Cys Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Ile Pro Val Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Ile Gln Trp Phe Arg Gly Ala Gly Pro Ala Arg Glu Leu Ile Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80

              Asn Gln Lys Glu Gly His Phe Pro Arg Val Thr Thr Val Ser Glu Ser
<removed-date>
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Lys Arg Glu Asn Met Asp Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile Ser Asn Ile Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ala Asp Ala Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Val Lys Phe Arg Lys Gly Ser
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Pro Asp Thr Glu Phe Lys Ser Gly Ala Gly Thr Glu Leu Ser Val Arg
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Lys Pro Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp
                  290                 295                 300
              Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320

              Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser
                              325                 330                 335
<removed-date>
              Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser
                      355                 360                 365
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  370                 375
              <210>   5
              <211>   318
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 5
              gaggagctgc aggtgattca gcctgacaag tccgtatcag ttgcagctgg agagtcggcc
              60
              attctgcact gcactgtgac ctccctgatc cctgtggggc ccatccagtg gttcagagga
              120
              gctggaccag cccgggaatt aatctacaat caaaaagaag gccacttccc ccgggtaaca
              180
              actgtttcag agtccacaaa gagagaaaac atggactttt ccatcagcat cagtaacatc
              240
              accccagcag atgccggcac ctactactgt gtgaagttcc ggaaagggag ccctgacacg
              300
              gagtttaagt ctggagca
              318
              <210>   6
              <211>   684
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 6
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc
              60
              ttcctcttcc caccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca
              120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac
              180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac
              240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag
              300

              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa
<removed-date>
              360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag
              420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag
              480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc
              540
<removed-apn>
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta tagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg
              600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc
              660
              ctctccctgt ctccgggtaa atga
              684
              <210>   7
              <211>   1035
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 7
              gaggagctgc aggtgattca gcctgacaag tccgtatcag ttgcagctgg agagtcggcc
              60
              attctgcact gcactgtgac ctccctgatc cctgtggggc ccatccagtg gttcagagga
              120
              gctggaccag cccgggaatt aatctacaat caaaaagaag gccacttccc ccgggtaaca
              180
              actgtttcag agtccacaaa gagagaaaac atggactttt ccatcagcat cagtaacatc
              240
              accccagcag atgccggcac ctactactgt gtgaagttcc ggaaagggag ccctgacacg
              300
              gagtttaagt ctggagcagg cactgagctg tctgtgcgtg ccaaaccctc tgacaaaact
              360
              cacacatgcc caccgtgccc agcacctgaa ctcctggggg gaccgtcagt cttcctcttc
              420
              ccaccaaaac ccaaggacac cctcatgatc tcccggaccc ctgaggtcac atgcgtggtg
              480
              gtggacgtga gccacgaaga ccctgaggtc aagttcaact ggtacgtgga cggcgtggag
              540
              gtgcataatg ccaagacaaa gccgcgggag gagcagtaca acagcacgta ccgtgtggtc
              600
              agcgtcctca ccgtcctgca ccaggactgg ctgaatggca aggagtacaa gtgcaaggtc
              660

              tccaacaaag ccctcccagc ccccatcgag aaaaccatct ccaaagccaa agggcagccc
<removed-date>
              720
              cgagaaccac aggtgtacac cctgccccca tcccgggatg agctgaccaa gaaccaggtc
              780
              agcctgacct gcctggtcaa aggcttctat cccagcgaca tcgccgtgga gtgggagagc
              840
              aatgggcagc cggagaacaa ctacaagacc acgcctcccg tgctggactc cgacggctcc
              900
<removed-apn>
              ttcttcctct atagcaagct caccgtggac aagagcaggt ggcagcaggg gaacgtcttc
              960
              tcatgctccg tgatgcatga ggctctgcac aaccactaca cgcagaagag cctctccctg
              1020
              tctccgggta aatga
              1035
              <210>   8
              <211>   1128
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 8
              atggagcccg ccggcccggc ccccggccgc ctcgggccgc tgctctgcct gctgctcgcc
              60
              gcgtcctgcg cctggtcagg agtggcgggt gaggaggagc tgcaggtgat tcagcctgac
              120
              aagtccgtat cagttgcagc tggagagtcg gccattctgc actgcactgt gacctccctg
              180
              atccctgtgg ggcccatcca gtggttcaga ggagctggac cagcccggga attaatctac
              240
              aatcaaaaag aaggccactt cccccgggta acaactgttt cagagtccac aaagagagaa
              300
              aacatggact tttccatcag catcagtaac atcaccccag cagatgccgg cacctactac
              360
              tgtgtgaagt tccggaaagg gagccctgac acggagttta agtctggagc aggcactgag
              420
              ctgtctgtgc gtgccaaacc ctctgacaaa actcacacat gcccaccgtg cccagcacct
              480
              gaactcctgg ggggaccgtc agtcttcctc ttcccaccaa aacccaagga caccctcatg
              540
              atctcccgga cccctgaggt cacatgcgtg gtggtggacg tgagccacga agaccctgag
              600
              gtcaagttca actggtacgt ggacggcgtg gaggtgcata atgccaagac aaagccgcgg
              660

              gaggagcagt acaacagcac gtaccgtgtg gtcagcgtcc tcaccgtcct gcaccaggac
<removed-date>
              720
              tggctgaatg gcaaggagta caagtgcaag gtctccaaca aagccctccc agcccccatc
              780
              gagaaaacca tctccaaagc caaagggcag ccccgagaac cacaggtgta caccctgccc
              840
              ccatcccggg atgagctgac caagaaccag gtcagcctga cctgcctggt caaaggcttc
              900
<removed-apn>
              tatcccagcg acatcgccgt ggagtgggag agcaatgggc agccggagaa caactacaag
              960
              accacgcctc ccgtgctgga ctccgacggc tccttcttcc tctatagcaa gctcaccgtg
              1020
              gacaagagca ggtggcagca ggggaacgtc ttctcatgct ccgtgatgca tgaggctctg
              1080
              cacaaccact acacgcagaa gagcctctcc ctgtctccgg gtaaatga
              1128
              <210>   9
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 9
              ggcgctagcc accatggagc
              20
              <210>   10
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 10
              ggtgaagctc actgtgtgct g
              21
              <210>   11
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400>   11

              cagcacacag tgagcttcac c
              21
<removed-date>
              <210>   12
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 12
              ccggatcctc atttacccag
              20
              <210>   13
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 13
              ggactcagag ggtttggcac gcacaga
              27
              <210>   14
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 14
              ccctctgagt ccaaatatgg tccccca
              27
              <210>   15
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 15
              agttttgtca gagggtttgg cacgcacaga
              30
              <210>   16
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

              <220>
              <223>   primer
<removed-date>
              <400> 16
              aaaccctctg acaaaactca cacatgccca
              30
              <210>   17
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 17
              cacggatcct catttacccg g
              21
              <210>   18
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 18
              aggtgctggg catggtgggc atggggg
              27
              <210>   19
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 19
              cccccatgcc caccatgccc agcacct
              27
              <210>   20
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   primer
              <400> 20
              cacggatcct catttaccca gagacaggg
              29
              <210>   21

              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   amino acid linker
              <400>   21
              Gly Thr Glu Leu Ser Val Arg Ala Lys Pro Ser
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   22
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   22
              Glu Glu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Gln Pro Asp Lys Ser Val Ser Val Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Gly Glu Ser Ala Ile Leu His Cys Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Ile Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Gly Pro Ile Gln Trp Phe Arg Gly Ala Gly Pro Ala Arg Glu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Tyr Asn Gln Lys Glu Gly His Phe Pro Arg Val Thr Thr Val Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Ser Thr Lys Arg Glu Asn Met Asp Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile Ser Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ile Thr Pro Ala Asp Ala Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Val Lys Phe Arg Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Ser Pro Asp Thr Glu Phe Lys Ser Gly Ala Gly Thr Glu Leu Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Arg Ala Lys Pro Ser
                      115
              <210>   23
              <211>   229
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   23
              Glu Ser Lys Tyr Gly Pro Pro Cys Pro Ser Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Phe
              1               5                   10                  15

<removed-date>
              Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Arg Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Ser Leu Gly Lys
              225
              <210>   24
              <211>   229
              <212>   PRT

              <213>   Homo sapiens
<removed-date>
              <400>   24
              Glu Ser Lys Tyr Gly Pro Pro Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Arg Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Ser Leu Gly Lys

              225
<removed-date>
              <210>   25
              <211>   345
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   25
              Glu Glu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Gln Pro Asp Lys Ser Val Ser Val Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ala Gly Glu Ser Ala Ile Leu His Cys Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Ile Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Gly Pro Ile Gln Trp Phe Arg Gly Ala Gly Pro Ala Arg Glu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Tyr Asn Gln Lys Glu Gly His Phe Pro Arg Val Thr Thr Val Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Ser Thr Lys Arg Glu Asn Met Asp Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile Ser Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ile Thr Pro Ala Asp Ala Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Val Lys Phe Arg Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Ser Pro Asp Thr Glu Phe Lys Ser Gly Ala Gly Thr Glu Leu Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Arg Ala Lys Pro Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                      195                 200                 205

              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys
<removed-date>
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          340                 345
              <210>   26
              <211>   347
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   26
              Glu Glu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Gln Pro Asp Lys Ser Val Ser Val Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Gly Glu Ser Ala Ile Leu His Cys Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Ile Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Gly Pro Ile Gln Trp Phe Arg Gly Ala Gly Pro Ala Arg Glu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Tyr Asn Gln Lys Glu Gly His Phe Pro Arg Val Thr Thr Val Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Ser Thr Lys Arg Glu Asn Met Asp Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile Ser Asn

              65                  70                  75                 80
<removed-date>
              Ile Thr Pro Ala Asp Ala Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Val Lys Phe Arg Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Ser Pro Asp Thr Glu Phe Lys Ser Gly Ala Gly Thr Glu Leu Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Arg Ala Lys Pro Ser Glu Ser Lys Tyr Gly Pro Pro Cys Pro Pro
<removed-apn>
                      115                 120                 125
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Phe Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ser Ser Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Gln Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
                      275                 280                 285
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Arg Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Glu Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320

<removed-date>
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Leu Gly Lys
                          340                 345
              <210>   27
              <211>   1128
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 27
              atggagcccg ccggcccggc ccccggccgc ctcgggccgc tgctctgcct gctgctcgcc
              60
              gcgtcctgcg cctggtcagg agtggcgggt gaggaggagc tgcaggtgat tcagcctgac
              120
              aagtccgtat cagttgcagc tggagagtcg gccattctgc actgcactgt gacctccctg
              180
              atccctgtgg ggcccatcca gtggttcaga ggagctggac cagcccggga attaatctac
              240
              aatcaaaaag aaggccactt cccccgggta acaactgttt cagagtccac aaagagagaa
              300
              aacatggact tttccatcag catcagtaac atcaccccag cagatgccgg cacctactac
              360
              tgtgtgaagt tccggaaagg gagccctgac acggagttta agtctggagc aggcactgag
              420
              ctgtctgtgc gtgccaaacc ctctgacaaa actcacacat gcccaccgtg cccagcacct
              480
              gaactcctgg ggggaccgtc agtcttcctc ttcccaccaa aacccaagga caccctcatg
              540
              atctcccgga cccctgaggt cacatgcgtg gtggtggacg tgagccacga agaccctgag
              600
              gtcaagttca actggtacgt ggacggcgtg gaggtgcata atgccaagac aaagccgcgg
              660
              gaggagcagt acaacagcac gtaccgtgtg gtcagcgtcc tcaccgtcct gcaccaggac
              720
              tggctgaatg gcaaggagta caagtgcaag gtctccaaca aagccctccc agcccccatc
              780
              gagaaaacca tctccaaagc caaagggcag ccccgagaac cacaggtgta caccctgccc
              840
              ccatcccggg atgagctgac caagaaccag gtcagcctga cctgcctggt caaaggcttc
              900

              tatcccagcg acatcgccgt ggagtgggag agcaatgggc agccggagaa caactacaag
              960
<removed-date>
              accacgcctc ccgtgctgga ctccgacggc tccttcttcc tctatagcaa gctcaccgtg
              1020
              gacaagagca ggtggcagca ggggaacgtc ttctcatgct ccgtgatgca tgaggctctg
              1080
              cacaaccact acacgcagaa gagcctctcc ctgtctccgg gtaaatga
              1128
<removed-apn>
              <210>   28
              <211>   1134
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 28
              atggagcccg ccggcccggc ccccggccgc ctcgggccgc tgctctgcct gctgctcgcc
              60
              gcgtcctgcg cctggtcagg agtggcgggt gaggaggagc tgcaggtgat tcagcctgac
              120
              aagtccgtat cagttgcagc tggagagtcg gccattctgc actgcactgt gacctccctg
              180
              atccctgtgg ggcccatcca gtggttcaga ggagctggac cagcccggga attaatctac
              240
              aatcaaaaag aaggccactt cccccgggta acaactgttt cagagtccac aaagagagaa
              300
              aacatggact tttccatcag catcagtaac atcaccccag cagatgccgg cacctactac
              360
              tgtgtgaagt tccggaaagg gagccctgac acggagttta agtctggagc aggcactgag
              420
              ctgtctgtgc gtgccaaacc ctctgagtcc aaatatggtc ccccatgccc accatgccca
              480
              gcacctgagt tcctgggggg accatcagtc ttcctgttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacact
              540
              ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcacg tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccaggaagac
              600
              cccgaggtcc agttcaactg gtacgtggat ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag
              660
              ccgcgggagg agcagttcaa cagcacgtac cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac
              720
              caggactggc tgaacggcaa ggagtacaag tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagg cctcccgtcc
              780
              tccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa gggcagcccc gagagccaca ggtgtacacc
              840

              ctgcccccat cccaggagga gatgaccaag aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaag
              900
<removed-date>
              ggcttctacc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac
              960
              tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaggcta
              1020
              accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcaggagggg aatgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag
              1080
<removed-apn>
              gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc ctctccctgt ctctgggtaa atga
              1134

