                                           ABSTRACT
        The present invention provides a system for receiving biological sequence
information and activating the synthesis of a biological entity. The system has a receiving
unit for receiving a signal encoding biological sequence information transmitted from a
transmitting unit. The transmitting unit can be present at a remote location from the receiving
unit. The system also has an assembly unit connected to the receiving unit, and the assembly
unit assembles the biological entity according to the biological sequence information. Thus,
according to the present invention biological sequence information can be digitally
transmitted to a remote location and the information converted into a biological entity, for
example a protein useful as a vaccine, immediately upon being received by the receiving unit
and without further human intervention after preparing the system for receipt of the
information. The invention is useful, for example, for rapidly responding to viral and other
biological threats that are specific to a particular locale.

                        DIGITAL TO BIOLOGICAL CONVERTER
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
    [0001]      This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013302376, which
        is the Australian National Phase of PCT/US2013/055454 filed 16 August 2013, which
        claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/684,076 filed
        16 August 2012. The contents of each application listed in this paragraph are fully
        incorporated by reference herein.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
    [0002]      The invention pertains to the automated conversion of biological information,
such as a biological sequence of interest, into a final biological entity. The invention also
pertains to providing for, e.g., a rapid response to biological threats.
                       INCORPORATION OF SEQUENCE LISTING
    [0003]       The material in the accompanying Sequence Listing is hereby incorporated
by reference into this application. The accompanying sequence listing text file, name
SGI1600_iWOPCTSequence Listing_ST25, was created on August 16, 2013 and is 15
KB. The file can be assessed using Microsoft Word on a computer that uses Windows OS.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    [0004]      The following description of the background of the invention is provided to
aid in understanding the invention, but is not admitted to be nor to describe, prior art to the
invention.
    [0005]      Genetic information is stored in the form of a sequence of nucleotides that
form a DNA molecule, which thus encodes the information necessary for the biological
synthesis of proteins and peptides necessary for all cellular processes. Digital technology
allows the transmission of digital information across enormous distances within seconds.
This information is useful for any number of processes that convert the digital information
into a useful function. It would be very desirable to have a system that allows the
transmission of biological information in digital form across great distances, and then the
conversion of that digital information into any of a wide variety of biological entities. Such
biological entities would then be useful for the performance of a wide variety of biological
functions such as, for example, the response to a biological threat to a community. A
                                                    1

desirable system would also allow for the use of the biological information for the synthesis
of DNA molecules, RNA molecules, proteins, virus and phage particles, vaccines, and
synthetic cells.
    [0006]       With respect to responding to a biological threat, one important aspect can be
the provision of a sufficient quantity of vaccine to inoculate a sufficient number of the
members of the population against the threat. A critical item of information necessary to
manufacture a vaccine is the biological sequence information associated with the biological
threat. When the biological threat is a virus, that sequence information can be obtained by
deriving the sequence information from a viral sample. Once the sequence is determined, a
vaccine can be manufactured. This can take a variety of formats, one of which is to
manufacture the protein coat or portion thereof of the viral threat, or another antigenic
component of the biological threat, which will provide the antigen to stimulate a response in
inoculated individuals against the biological threat.
    [0007]       Thus, for example, a nucleic acid sequence coding for the antigen can be
synthesized. This can involve up to several days of work to coordinate the synthesis of
oligonucleotides, which can then be assembled to form the final nucleic acid sequence. This
can also involve the participation of several laboratories. After being obtained the final
nucleic acid sequence can then be translated, whether in vitro or in vivo, to synthesize the
antigenic protein.
    [0008]       In the response to a biological threat, time can be of the utmost importance, so
that members of medical response teams who will implement a response plan or work
directly with infected persons can be inoculated and thus obtain immunity from the threat and
be available to continue to carry out their duties unimpeded by threats of illness. Delays in
vaccine preparation also lead to insufficient quantities of vaccine being ready at critical times
and are also an important limiting factor in responding to a biological threat.
    [0009]       Furthermore, the specifics of a viral or other biological threat often differ from
one locale to another. Thus, a vaccine that might be maximally effective in one locale may
not be as effective in another locale due to rapid virus mutation.
    [0010]       There is therefore a need for systems that can transmit biological information
in digital form, and allow for the conversion of that digital information into a variety of
biological final products. Having a system that is automated would also contribute greatly to
achievement of these goals. Such a system will meet various biological challenges, such as
rapidly and effectively responding to viral and other biological threats for which time may be
                                                    2

critical. It would also allow for a response that is tailored from one locale to another to meet
the specific threats present in various locales.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
     [0011]     The present invention provides systems and methods for receiving biological
sequence information from a remote location and the automated synthesis of a biological
entity based on the biological sequence information. The system and methods enable a rapid
response to viral and other biological threats that are specific to a particular locale. Kits are
also provided that include materials and reagents for performing the methods on systems of
the invention. The system is able to produce a biological entity such as a DNA molecule, an
RNA molecule, protein, or peptide from the biological sequence information in an automated
fashion, and is further able to produce viral particles in vivo, also in automated fashion. The
system is thus useful in the production of vaccines, such as an influenza vaccine.
     [0012]     In a first aspect the invention provides a system for receiving biological
sequence information and activating the synthesis of a functional biological entity. The
system has a receiving unit for receiving a signal encoding biological sequence information
transmitted from a transmitting unit, the transmitting unit present at a remote location from
the receiving unit. The system also has an assembly unit connected to the receiving unit, for
assembling the biological entity according to the biological sequence information. The
assembly unit has or is connected to reagent vessels containing biological building block
molecules and/or already synthesized oligonucleotides, and also has components for
transporting reagents within the system and for executing steps in an automated method for
synthesizing the functional biological entity. The receiving unit of the system receives the
biological sequence information and provides it to the assembly unit.
     [0013]     In one embodiment transmitting unit and the receiving unit are computers that
are part of a computer network. The biological building block molecules can be dNTPs or
nucleoside phosphoramidites. The system can also have programming instructions for
assembling the dNTPs or nucleoside phosphoramidites into a set of oligonucleotides
according to the biological sequence information. It can also have programming instructions
for assembling the set of oligonucleotides into a DNA molecule. In one embodiment the
functional biological entity is a DNA molecule. The oligonucleotides can also be provided to
the system or methods of the invention already synthesized and the system or method is for
assembling the oligonucleotides into a DNA molecule.
                                                   3

     [0014]      The system in one embodiment has one or more vessels containing reagents
for the transcription and/or translation of the functional DNA molecule into a biological
product. The biological sequence information can encode a nucleic acid encoding for at least
a portion of a virus particle or bacteriophage. The assembly unit can also convert the
biological entity into a biological product, and in some embodiments the biological product
can be a virus particle or a portion of a virus particle or a phage or cells. The virus particle or
portion of a virus particle can be a protein antigen. In some embodiments the assembly unit
also has, or is connected, one or more vessels containing a host cell. The systems of the
invention can also have one or more vessels and reagents for the transcription of the DNA
molecule into an RNA molecule, and/or for the translation of an RNA molecule into a
functional peptide or protein, which translation can be done in vitro or in vivo. The system
can also have programming instructions for performing steps of an automated method in
distinct reaction zones of a reaction container.
     [0015]      In another aspect the invention provides methods of synthesizing a functional
biological entity. The method involves receiving biological sequence information from a
transmitting unit in a system for synthesizing the functional biological entity. The system of
the methods is a system of the invention described herein. The method further involves
synthesizing the functional biological entity in an automated method.
     [0016]      In the methods the assembly unit can be prepared for assembly of the
functional biological entity prior to receiving the biological sequence information. The
preparation can involve charging reaction containers of the system with biological building
blocks or building block polymers, such as dNTPs or nucleoside phosphoramidites or with
already synthesized oligonucleotides or peptides. In some methods of the invention the
biological sequence information encodes for a nucleic acid molecule encoding for at least a
portion of a virus particle. In methods where a functional protein or peptide is produced, it
can be a viral protein or peptide. The functional biological entity can also be a DNA
molecule larger than 5 kb.
     [0017]      In one embodiment of the methods the building block molecules are linked in
an in vitro reaction to form building block polymers. The building block molecules can be
nucleotides or nucleoside phosphoramidites, and the building block polymers can be
oligonucleotides or peptides or ribonucleotides or derivatives of any.
     [0018]      In some embodiments the methods involve transporting oligonucleotides from
a first zone of a reaction container to a second zone of the reaction container. The methods
                                                   4

can also involve performing one step of the method in a first reaction zone of the reaction
container and a second step of the method in a second reaction zone of the reaction container.
In one embodiment the first step is the assembly of a DNA molecule and the second step is
the transcription of the DNA molecule into an RNA. The methods can also have a third step
performed in a third reaction zone of the reaction container, the third step comprising the in
vivo production of viral particles. In other embodiments synthesizing the biological entity
comprises a DNA assembly step. The steps of the method can also involve multiple levels of
biological assembly. Thus the methods can have a DNA assembly step and a RNA
transcription step. The DNA assembly step can be performed in a first reaction zone of the
reaction container and the RNA transcription step can be performed in a second reaction zone
of the reaction container. The method can also have a step involving the in vivo production
of viral particles in a third reaction zone of the reaction container.
     [0019]      The summary of the invention described above is not limiting and other
features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed
description of the invention, and from the claims.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0020]    Figure 1 provides a graphical illustration of a use of the present invention,
broadly depicting the transmission of biological information and its conversion into a useful
biological entity.
       [0021]    Figure 2 illustrates a 0.8% pre-cast agarose gel showing the assembly of
nucleic acid constructs HA (H) and NA (N) from various influenza virus strains, each
assembled from 96 pooled oligonucleotides in a system of the invention using the methods of
the invention. Both Constructs HA and NA are of approximately 3 kb. Fig. 2a - Lane 1:
A/Brisbane/10/2010(HIN1)_HA; Lane 2: A/Brisbane/10/2010(HIN1)_NA; Lane 3:
X179ATD(H1N1)_HA; Lane 4: X179A(H1N1)                 NA; Lane 5: A/Victoria/361/201 1_CDC/
E3(H3N2)_HA ; Lane 6: A/Victoria/361/2011(H3N2) NA; Lane 7:
A/Brisbane/256/201 1_P2/E3(H3N2)_HA; Lane 8: A/Brisbane/256/201 1_P2/E3(H3N2) NA;
Standards lane. Fig 2b - Standards lane; Lane 1: B/Texas/06/201 1_BX-45_HA; Lane 2:
B/Texas/06/201 1_BX-49_NA; Lane 3: B/NewHampshire/1/2012_HA; Lane 4:
B/NewHampshire/1/2012_NA; Lane 5: B/Brisbane/60/08_HA; Lane 6:
B/Brisbane/60/08_NA; Lane 7: B/Nevada/03/201 1_v2_HA; Lane 8:
B/Nevada/03/2011_v2_NA.
                                                    5

                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     [0022]      The present invention provides a system for the transmission of biological
information in digital form across great distances, and the subsequent and rapid conversion of
that information into a final biological entity. The biological sequence information can be
that information necessary for the synthesis of a DNA molecule, an RNA molecule, a protein
or peptide, virus and/or phage particles, vaccines, synthetic cells, or any biological entity.
The biological entities can be synthesized by a system of the invention located at the
particular locale where the biological entity is to be assembled or synthesized.
     [0023]      The invention provides numerous advantages with respect to rapidly
responding to biological threats. In one embodiment the biological threat is a viral threat.
The invention allows for biological sequence information to be rapidly transmitted to a
location under a biological threat, for example a remote location, and immediately be used in
the process for preparing the vaccine or other materials necessary for an appropriate response.
The threat can be an influenza or other viral threat.
     [0024]      In one embodiment the biological sequence information is the sequence
information necessary for the formulation of a vaccine to the virus, i.e., the sequence of one
or more varying regions of the virus particle. The invention therefore allows for a system of
the invention to be set up and prepared with necessary reagents ahead of time so that the
system can receive biological sequence information and immediately and in an automated
manner begin preparing a vaccine or other appropriate biological response to deal with the
threat immediately upon receiving the sequence information. The community under threat
can therefore have multiple or large-scale systems prepared to receive the sequence
information in order to maximize the supply of vaccine that will be available within a short
timeframe for inoculating a population against the biological threat. The invention is
versatile and allows a vaccine to be customized for dealing with the specific viral threat in a
particular locale. Thus, where different strains of virus are affecting different locales, each
locale can tailor a vaccine response to the particular strain affecting that locale in order to
respond most accurately and effectively to the threat. By reducing or eliminating the number
of hours that pass prior to beginning preparation of the vaccine and by preparing the most
effective vaccine for the subject locale, the effectiveness of the response to the biological
threat is greatly improved.
     [0025]      The present invention also has applicability to responding to biological threats
related to bioterrorism where the rapidity and accuracy of the response may impart a critical
                                                   6

and lifesaving effectiveness to the response. Thus, locales facing such threats can prepare by
setting up a system disclosed herein in order to be able to mount the fastest and most accurate
response, and thus have the greatest chance of defeating the threat with minimal damage.
     [0026]     The systems of the invention can be designed so that the methods can be
performed on any reaction containers containing a plurality of reaction areas where samples
can be manipulated. The reaction areas can be either defined (i.e. by physical boundaries on
the container) or undefined (i.e., defined only by the space occupied by a sample). In one
embodiment the reaction container is a standard 96-well plate, which contains a plurality of
small reaction areas accommodating samples to be manipulated, i.e., each well of the plate.
This is convenient because thermocyclers used in the systems and methods of the invention
are typically designed to hold a 96 well plate. But it will be realized that any type of reaction
container that holds a plurality of reaction areas containing samples to be manipulated will
also function in the invention. For example a reaction plate having other than 96 wells will
be a suitable reaction container in the methods, or a petri dish having a plurality of reaction
areas where sample can be manipulated is also suitable even if the reaction areas are not
defined by physical boundaries. Even a biochip can be a reaction container since it has a
plurality of reaction areas on the chip.
     [0027]     By defining and utilizing reaction zones on the reaction containers it was
discovered that a system can be designed so that a multi-level process from synthesizing
oligonucleotides to the production of a protein or vaccine and additional methods can be
performed in an automated method. This is accomplished by performing particular steps in
reaction areas located in a specific reaction zone on the reaction container.
     [0028]     By employing robotics in the invention samples can be transported from
particular reaction zones of a reaction container to other reaction zones, and an automated
method can be conducted in one reaction container. Samples are not harmed or destroyed by
conditions (e.g., temperature) for carrying out subsequent steps in a process in the same
reaction container because the appropriate conditions for subsequent steps can be established
on the reaction container prior to the system moving the sample into the reaction zone where
the next step will occur. Thus, the reaction samples can be moved across the reaction
container and into a new zone as each subsequent step is performed and the conditions
created on the reaction container for that subsequent step, and the entire process can be
completed in an automated method in the same reaction container. Thus, in some
embodiments the systems of the invention perform automated methods.
                                                   7

    [0029]       An automated method is one where no human intervention is necessary after
the method is initiated - the method goes to completion from that point without a human
having to perform any action, and the method produces a functional biological entity. For
example, in one embodiment an automated method is a method where no human intervention
occurs after sequence instructions are received by the system of the invention, and the system
executes the method to produce a functional nucleic acid molecule. Human intervention is
any action taken by a person to move the method to completion. Human intervention
includes, but is not limited to, the manual movement of samples or of the reaction container
from one location to another or an action involving the preparation or movement of samples
or reagents, the provision or re-supply of reagents or reactants, the turning on or off of any
component of the system, or any other action necessary to complete execution of the method.
In one example of an automated method is initiated with the receipt of biological sequence
information from a transmitting unit. The method can proceed as an automated method to
result in production of a DNA molecule, and in one embodiment has multiple levels of
biological assembly and proceeds to the transcription of the DNA to produce mRNA, and can
also proceed further to the translation of the mRNA into a protein biological product.
    [0030]       The system of the invention can have multiple levels of biological assembly so
that a synthesized DNA molecule, for example, can be transcribed into an RNA molecule,
and the RNA molecule further translated into a protein or peptide of interest, or combined
with a cell culture to result in production of a drug product or synthesis of a whole vaccine.
Translated proteins can also be further processed by the system to produce, for example, a
viral particle or vaccine, or portions thereof. Levels of assembly include 1) synthesis of a
dsDNA or ssDNA molecule from linking nucleotides or nucleoside phosphoramidites; 2)
assembly of a dsDNA molecule by joining oligonucleotides (a DNA assembly step); 3)
synthesis/transcription of an RNA molecule according to a DNA molecule (a transcription
step); 4) synthesis of a protein or peptide from joining amino acids or synthesis of a protein
from joining peptides; 5) synthesis/translation of a protein or peptide according to the
sequence of an RNA molecule (a translation step); 6) assembly of two or more proteins (or
protein sub-units) into a protein having quartenary structure (e.g., a virus particle or portion
thereof). The systems and methods of the invention can perform any of these levels of
assembly. A system or method that performs at least two of these levels of synthesis is a
system or method having multiple levels of biological assembly, but systems and methods
can also be devised having at least 3 levels or at least 4 levels or at least 5 levels of biological
                                                   8

assembly. In one embodiment the systems and methods of the invention synthesize a dsDNA
molecule from nucleotides (including derivatives) or nucleoside phosphoramidites (including
derivatives). In another embodiment the systems and methods of the invention synthesize a
ssDNA or dsDNA molecule from oligonucleotides. In another embodiment the systems and
methods of the invention synthesize a protein or peptide from amino acids. The
oligonucleotides or peptides of the invention can also be modified, derivatized, or labeled, as
described herein.
     [0031]      With reference to Figure 1 there is depicted an embodiment of the invention.
A transmitting unit 1 transmits biological sequence information 3 from a location to the
receiving units 2 of various systems of the invention located in locations remote from the
transmitting unit 1. The receiving units 2 receive the signal encoding biological sequence
information 3 and provide the biological sequence information to an assembly unit. The
assembly unit assembles the biological entity 4, which in this embodiment is a DNA
molecule. In this embodiment the assembly unit further converts the biological entity into a
biological product 5, which can be a virus coat or portion thereof 5a, or a virus 5b, or a
protein antigen 5c. The biological product is useful as a vaccine 6.
Receiving Unit
     [0032]      The receiving unit receives a signal encoding biological sequence information.
In one embodiment the receiving unit is a computer that receives digitally encoded biological
sequence information from the transmitting unit. The receiving unit can therefore be
connected to the internet and/or can be otherwise connected to a computer network, which
allows information to be exchanged between computers connected to the network. The
internet is also a computer network as the term is used herein. In one embodiment the
transmitting unit is located in a location remote from the receiving unit, for example in
another city or another country or nation. The receiving unit can even be located in a place
off of the Earth or outside of the Earth's atmosphere such as, for example, in an orbiting
space station or even on the Moon or on a planet other than Earth. In some embodiments the
transmitting unit is located in a remote location that is at least 10 miles or at least 25 miles or
at least 50 miles or at least 100 miles or at least 250 miles or at least 1000 miles from the
receiving unit. In some embodiments the receiving unit receives the biological sequence
information and provides it to the assembly unit in a form that the assembly unit can convert
into programming instructions for the assembly of the biological sequence. The receiving
unit in one embodiment is therefore connected to the transmitting unit through a computer
                                                    9

network. The receiving unit is also connected to the assembly unit. In various embodiments
the receiving unit can also be a computer or circuit board or part of a computer integrated into
the assembly unit, or a sub-unit of the assembly unit. The connections between the receiving
unit and transmitting unit can be indirect, i.e., through one or more additional computers,
routers, or other electronic devices interposed between them. The connection can also be
through a wireless or satellite connection. The connection can also be direct, as in a direct
connection between the transmitting unit and receiving unit through the computer network.
However, the receiving unit will receive the signal transmitted by the transmitting unit. In
one embodiment the receiving unit receives the biological sequence in the form of
electromagnetic waves and provides the sequence to the assembly unit for assembly of the
biological entity or biological product.
Transmitting Unit
     [0033]      The transmitting unit transmits biological sequence information to the
receiving unit of the system. A digital signal can represent information in the form of a series
of binary digits. Persons of ordinary skill in the art understand that virtually any kind of
information can be readily transmitted as a digital signal, including biological sequence
information. These types of information are readily transmitted through computer networks,
which can span the globe. In one embodiment of the invention the transmitting unit is a
computer that is connected to a computer network that allows information to be transmitted
from one computer to another, or exchanged between computers connected to the network
(e.g., the internet). Thus, in one embodiment the transmitting unit and the receiving unit are
computers that are part of a computer network, and the transmitting unit has hardware and/or
software for acquiring or converting the sequence information into a digital format and
transmitting the sequence information to a receiving unit, for example through a computer
network. In other embodiments the transmitting unit is a telephone or a keyboard and the
operator can manually key in the biological sequence information. The transmitting unit can
also be an electronic device that sends the message to the receiving unit in any format (e.g.,
HTML). The format of data encoding and transmission can be any convenient format that
can be converted by the receiving unit into instructions for synthesis of the biological
sequence. The transmitting unit can obtain the information from a person that enters the
information or can obtain it in an automated fashion from an instrument that determines the
sequence. The source of the biological sequence information can be a sample of the virus or
other biological entity.
                                                    10

     [0034]      The biological sequence information can be a series of nucleotides,
phosphoramidites (e.g., nucleoside phosphoramidites), amino acids, or any sequence
providing the information necessary to synthesize the primary structure of a biological entity.
The biological sequence information can also be provided as a code that can be deciphered to
arrive at the information necessary to synthesize the primary structure of the biological entity.
     [0035]      It is often the case that the sequence of a biological entity (e.g., a virus) will be
deciphered at a scientific facility with special expertise in this technical area. DNA
sequencing technology is widely known in the art and various methods of isolating DNA and
performing sequencing are available. Thus, the sequence can be deciphered using standard,
known technologies such as, for example, sequencing by synthesis, the dideoxy or chain
termination (Sanger) method, the chemical degradation method, thermal cycle sequencing,
pyrosequencing, or sequencing by hybridization. These are only some examples of DNA
sequencing methods as persons of ordinary skill in the art are aware of numerous additional
methods. The precise method of sequencing is not important, only that the sequence of the
biological entity is acquired by the transmitting unit for transmission to a receiving unit from
the transmitting unit. The sequence can be deciphered and can also be a predicted sequence,
which predicted sequence can be based on trends or information derived from year to year
changes in a virus. The year to year changes in the virus can be, for example, changes over a
period of at least 2 years or at least 3 years or at least 5 years or at least 10 years.
     [0036]      In one embodiment the transmitting unit can also comprise or be associated
with a DNA sequencer, or have the capacity to sequence DNA. Therefore a transmitting unit
can have the capacity to determine the DNA sequence of an organism or biological sample
and transmit the biological sequence information to a receiving unit at a remote location.
Therefore the system and methods of the invention can have a sample return capability from
remote locations, including locations outside of the Earth's atmosphere, such as the Moon or
other planets.
Assembly Unit
     [0037]      The assembly unit synthesizes the biological sequence according to the
information received by the receiving unit from the transmitting unit. The assembly unit
deployed in the system of the invention can be connected to the receiving unit. As with the
other system components the connection can be either a direct connection between the units,
or can be an indirect connection through one or more additional computers, routers, or other
electronic devices interposed between the units. The assembly unit can be in communication
                                                    11

with the receiving unit so that, when the receiving unit receives the signal containing the
biological sequence information from the transmitting unit, the information is provided to the
assembly unit, which can immediately begin to synthesize the sequence in an automated
method. The assembly unit can have various functions including, but not limited to, one or
more of the synthesis of a nucleic acid molecule, the amplification of a nucleic acid molecule,
and the transcription and/or translation of a nucleic acid molecule into a peptide or protein.
    [0038]      In some embodiments the assembly unit has the ability to perform a second (or
third or fourth) level of biological assembly, e.g., the assembly of biological entities produced
into larger biological entities. Thus, in one embodiment the assembly unit can synthesize
oligonucleotides in an automated method, and then subsequently assemble the
oligonucleotides into a larger dsDNA molecule. In one embodiment the oligonucleotides
synthesized can be fragments of a DNA molecule of interest, or portions or variants of a
DNA molecule of interest. The oligonucleotides can be assembled in combinatorial fashion,
either sequentially or simultaneously as desired. A typical oligonucleotide can be from 40
100 nucleotides or from 30-110 nucleotides or from 50-90 nucleotides or about 60
nucleotides. But in various other embodiments the DNA molecules produced by the
assembly unit can be greater than 100 bp, or greater than 200 bp, or greater than 300 bp, or
greater than 400 bp, or greater than 500 bp, or greater than 600 bp, or greater than 700 bp, or
greater than 800 bp, or greater than 900 bp, or greater than 1000 bp or from 100-1000 bp or
from 200-1000 bp or from 300-1000 bp or from 400-1000 bp or from 500-1000 bp or from
600-1000 bp or from 700-1000 bp. The lengths recited can be the lengths with or without
single-stranded overhangs (i.e., "sticky ends").
    [0039]      In various embodiments the assembly unit comprises one or more sub-units of
a nucleic acid synthesizer, a protein and peptide synthesizer, a PCR thermocycler, and one or
more sub-units for performing in vitro transcription and/or translation on a sample. Another
sub-unit can be provided for incubating a biological entity in a cell culture and/or for
maintaining cells in a cell culture.
    [0040]      Any one or any combination of the sub-units or all of the sub-units of the
assembly unit can be automated. The systems of the invention can include an automated
nucleic acid and/or amino acid synthesizer. The assembly unit of the invention can contain a
plurality of vessels or containers having the chemicals, reagents, biological building blocks,
or building block polymers necessary to perform nucleic acid or protein and peptide
synthesis, and valves necessary to permit or restrict the flow of reagents, as well as vessels
                                                  12

for conducting certain chemical reactions. These can also be present outside the assembly
unit with passages providing the assembly unit access to them. The biological building block
molecules can be, for example, amino acids, dNTPs, and/or nucleoside phosphoramidites
necessary for synthesis of the desired biological sequence. The biological building blocks
can also include monosaccharides, disaccharides, or polysaccharides. When the biological
entity or biological product comprises more than one type of molecule, for example a
glycoprotein, the biological building blocks will comprise amino acids and mono-, di-, or
poly-saccharides as desired. Oligonucleotides or other building block polymers that are
already assembled can also be provided in the vessels or containers.
     [0041]     The biological building blocks can also be modified, derivatized, or labeled.
For example the biological building blocks can be nucleoside phosphoramidites or nucleoside
triphosphates (NTPs), or derivatives of either. In various embodmients the modified,
derivatized, or labeled building blocks can be aminoallyl, biotin, or 2' fluoro- modified or
labeled NTPs or phosphoramidites. Additional modified, derivatized, or labeled building
blocks include 2-aminopurine, 2,6-diaminopurine, 5-bromo deoxyuridine, inverted dT
(prevents unwanted 5' ligations), dideoxycytidine, 5-methyl dC, deoxyinosine, 5-nitroindole,
hydroxymethyl dC, Iso dC and iso dG, or locked nucleic acids to improve stability where
desired. The assembly unit can contain the vessels that contain the chemicals, reagents, or
biological building blocks, or the vessels can be outside the assembly unit and be connected
to the assembly unit, for example via tubes or other pathways that carry the materials. The
instruments typically contain software programming instructions necessary to control the
instrument and synthesize a nucleic acid or protein/peptide in an automated fashion. Thus,
the software programming instructions can be instructions directing the manipulations of the
parts of the assembly unit to synthesize a set of oligonucleotides from biological building
blocks (e.g., dNTPs or nucleoside phosphoramidites) according to the biological sequence
information, and/or can include instructions for assembling the oligonucleotides into larger
DNA molecules, and can further include instructions for transcribing the DNA molecules into
RNA and for translating the RNA into protein molecules, and can further include instructions
for assembling protein molecules into larger protein structures. In one embodiment the
instructions are for assembling oligonucleotides into DNA or RNA molecules. In one
embodiment the instructions are for assembling protein molecules into a virus or portion of a
virus. And in another embodiment the system includes programming instructions for
performing steps of an automated method in distinct zones of a reaction container.
                                                  13

    [0042]       The assembly unit can be a single, unitary unit, or can have various sub-units
that perform the different functions. Thus, in one embodiment a sub-unit of the assembly
unit performs oligonucleotide synthesis, for example with an oligonucleotide synthesizer. A
robotic arm can be included to perform transfer of the reaction container (e.g. a 96 well plate)
from the synthesizer to a liquid handler with thermocycling capabilities. Synthesized
oligonucleotides can also be provided to another reaction container, or another zone of the
same reaction container or to another sub-unit of the assembly unit for amplification, for
example to a PCR thermocycler, and/or assembly. In one emobodiment the system is
provided with already synthesized oligonucleotides and assembles the oligonucleotides into
one or more DNA molecules. And one or more other sub-units can perform transcription
and/or translation of the synthesized nucleic acid into protein product, such as an automated
in vitro translation system, or these functions too can be performed in another zone of the
same reaction container. In each case the sub-units are prepared with the necessary reagents,
chemical, and biological building blocks to perform the function in an automated manner.
Thus, the assembly unit can begin to perform one or all of the functions immediately upon
being provided with the biological sequence information from the receiving unit.
    [0043]       The assembly unit synthesizes the biological sequence according to the
information received by the receiving unit from the transmitting unit or according to
sequence information otherwise provided to the assembly unit. The assembly unit can thus in
an automated fashion direct the synthesis of the desired biological entity. All of the units in
the system, including the assembly unit, can be prepared with necessary software and pre
charged with necessary reagents and chemicals in the required vessels so that the biological
sequence information can be received by the receiving unit and the assembly unit can
instantly begin synthesizing the desired biological entity. Thus, the assembly unit can be
prepared for assembly or synthesis of the biological entity prior to receiving the biological
sequence information.
    [0044]       Following synthesis of oligonucleotides or peptides the assembly unit can also
have the capability to assemble oligonucleotides into larger nucleic acid molecules and,
respectively, peptides into polypeptides and proteins. The systems and methods can also
assemble DNA molecules from oligonucleotides. Thus, the nucleic acid molecule or protein
or peptide can be assembled through a series of reactions. In one embodiment for nucleic
acid molecules the GIBSON ASSEMBLY® (Synthetic Genomics, San Diego, CA) reaction
is used to assemble the nucleic acids, but in other embodiments any suitable method of
                                                  14

assembling oligonucleotides (or peptides) into larger nucleic acids (or polypeptides) can be
employed. The oligonucleotides can also be assembled into double-stranded nucleic acid
molecules. Persons of ordinary skill are also aware of methods of assembling peptides into
polypeptides and proteins, which can also be applied in the invention.
     [0045]     The assembly unit, or sub-units thereof, comprise one or more vessels that
contain reagents, chemicals, biological building blocks, or building block polymers useful for
performing the function of the assembly unit or sub-unit thereof. The vessels can be
containers made of glass or another suitable material and can be pre-filled by the user prior to
the receiving unit receiving the biological sequence information from the transmitting unit.
Thus, the assembly unit can be set up and waiting to receive the biological sequence
information from the transmitting unit. In some embodiments the functions of the assembly
unit or sub-sets thereof will be managed and orchestrated by appropriate software that will
direct the combination of materials from the various vessels. Each sub-unit of the assembly
unit can operate from its own software upon receipt of the required information or the
assembly unit can have one program that directs the various sub-units that may comprise the
assembly unit.
     [0046]     In vitro and/or in vivo transcription and translation can be performed using a
variety of methods known to persons of ordinary skill. In different protocols extracts of
rabbit reticulocytes, wheat germ, E. coli, as well as human cell lysates are used in the
synthesis of proteins. Human in vitro translation systems can be useful when the biological
entity is a vaccine for use against human pathogens. The extracts can be prepared and
contain the essential components of cellular translational machinery such as, for example,
ribosomes, tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, initiation, elongation, and termination
factors, energy sources such as ATPs, necessary co-factors and other proteins. In vitro
transcription and translation reactions can be performed at great speed and at the microliter or
nanoliter level. A variety of commercially available kits can also be used for convenient set
up and have been used with success but the essential components can also be assembled
generically. Whether kits or generic materials are used, in some embodiments a cell-free
solution containing essential components of the cellular translational machinery is utilized.
     [0047]     In one in vitro translation method extracts of an immortalized human cell line
are used to provide the ribosomes, initiation and elongation factors, tRNAs and the other
basic components required for protein synthesis. Some systems utilize proprietary accessory
proteins, ATP, and an energy regenerating system to sustain the synthesis of target proteins
                                                   15

from DNA templates. The extracts can be prepared and pre-charged into a vessel of the
assembly unit and be available to perform translation of synthesized nucleic acid when
needed. The assembly unit can maintain these extracts at required temperatures to extend
their useful life. The vessel or vessels for performing transcription and/or translation can also
be linked to the vessels where DNA will be synthesized and amplified using PCR, and then
transcribed into RNA. Upon transcription of RNA a portion of the reaction can be transferred
into the vessel for performing translation, or the transcription and translation reactions can be
performed in a single vessel. In some embodiments the biological entity requires protein
modifications, such as glycosylated residues, a refolding step, or enzymatic modifications
that must occur prior to the biological entity having activity or full activity. Reagents and
programming protocols can be included within the assembly unit for this purpose as well.
     [0048]      All of these reactions can be performed in the reaction container itself within
particular reaction areas or zones. The systems of the invention can also include sub-units,
reaction areas, or reaction zones for the purification of biological products.
     [0049]      In one aspect the invention provides a system for the synthesis of a functional
biological entity according to provided biological sequence information. The system has an
assembly unit for assembling the biological entity according to the provided biological
sequence information. The assembly unit contains or is connected to vessels containing
biological building block molecules or building block polymers and has components for
transporting reagents within the system and for executing steps in an automated method of
the invention for synthesizing the functional biological entity. These systems can also have
any of the components or features described herein. The biological entity can be any as
described herein (e.g., a DNA molecule). The system can have a receiving unit for receiving
a signal or data having the biological sequence information. The biological sequence
information can be provided by manually keying in the sequence via an electronic interface,
or by transmitting the sequence to a receiving unit from a transmitting unit, as described
herein.
Biological Entity
     [0050]      The biological entity is a polynucleotide or DNA molecule, or a
polyribonucleotide or an RNA molecule, or a peptide or polypeptide or protein. In some
embodiments the biological entity is a nucleic acid or a DNA molecule. When the biological
entity is a DNA or RNA molecule it can be convertible into a biological product. The DNA
or RNA can be single-stranded DNA or RNA, or double-stranded DNA or RNA. When the
                                                   16

biological entity is a DNA molecule it can be a functional DNA molecule, meaning that it can
be transcribed into an RNA that can be translated into a functional protein or peptide, or is
directly useful as a DNA molecule (e.g., as a DNA vaccine). A functional RNA molecule
can be translated into a functional protein or peptide. A functional protein or peptide is one
that has a clinical use in the treatment of a disease or disorder, or is directly useful in some
biological context (e.g., as a structural protein or is useful as an enzyme). In various
embodiments the functional protein or peptide can be the domain of a protein, a binding
subunit, an enzyme or enzyme subunit that has enzymatic activity, a protein or peptide that
has antigenic activity that is useful in the generation of a vaccine, a viral protein or a subunit
thereof, a viral coat protein (e.g., an HA or NA protein), or a plurality of proteins or peptides
that form a viral particle when combined in vitro or when combined in vitro in host cells.
The clinical use can thus be the generation of an antigenic response or the binding of a
protein or peptide to a specific binding molecule or receptor but in one embodiment the
antigenic response is one that furthers the treatment of a disease or disorder (e.g. the
generation of a vaccine to influenza) or finds use in an assay to identify the presence of an
epitope. The functional protein or peptide can also provide a desirable property such as, for
example, a desirable taste, texture, scent, or another property. In one embodiment a
functional protein or peptide has a function other than the generation of an immune or
antigenic response.
     [0051]      The biological entity can be of any size. Oligonucleotides of up to about 200
bp can be assembled but greater accuracy can often be achieved by synthesizing smaller
oligonucleotides. In various embodiments the biological entity is a single-stranded or
double-stranded DNA molecule of greater than 100 base pairs in length, or greater than 200
bp, or greater than 300 bp, or greater than 400 bp, or greater than 500 bp, or greater than 1 kb,
or greater than 2.5 kb or greater than 3 kb or greater than 4 kb or greater than 5 kb or greater
than 6 kb or greater than 7 kb or greater than 8 kb or greater than 9 kb or 1-10 kb or 1-9 kb or
1-8 kb or 2-10 kb or 2-9 kb or 2-8 kb. Using additional techniques the person of ordinary
skill with resort to the present disclosure will realize that DNA sequences synthesized as
oligonucleotides can also be joined to assemble a DNA molecule using the method described
herein of greater than 1 kb, or greater than 2 kb, or greater than 3 kb, or greater than 5 kb, or
greater than 6 kb, or greater than 7 kb. In other embodiments the system and method of the
invention can be used to assemble a DNA molecule of greater than 100 kb, or greater than
                                                   17

200 kb, or less than 200 kb, or greater than 300 kb, or less than 300 kb, or greater than 500
kb, or greater than 800 kb or greater than 1 mega-base or less than 1 mega-base.
     [0052]     Biological sequence information is that sequence information necessary for
the synthesis of a biological entity, for example a nucleic acid, peptide, or protein. In some
embodiments the biological sequence information is the sequence (or order) of nucleotides,
amino acids, or other building block that comprises the primary structure of the nucleic acid
or peptide or protein that is the biological entity. In different embodiments this information
may be provided to the receiving unit in a binary form or in another encoded form.
Biological Product
     [0053]     A biological product is a biological molecule that is synthesized or assembled
using the sequence information provided by the biological entity. Thus, in different
embodiments the biological entity is a DNA molecule or an RNA molecule and the biological
product can be any biological product made therefrom such as, for example, a viral genome
or a portion thereof, a viral particle or viral coat or a portion of either, a bacteriophage or
portion thereof, an antigenic portion of a viral particle or viral coat, a bacterial genome or
portion thereof, a gene, a nucleic acid sequence, a single-stranded DNA molecule (ssDNA), a
double-stranded DNA molecule (dsDNA), an RNA molecule, an anti-sense RNA moiety, an
siRNA moiety, an RNAi moiety, a double-stranded RNA moiety, a protein molecule or
protein moiety, a protein antigen or portion thereof, an enzyme, a structural protein, a
regulatory protein, a nutritional protein, a binding protein, a transport protein, a peptide
molecule, a gene or genome of a fungus or portion thereof, or a synthetic cell. The biological
product can also be a protein, peptide, or polypeptide that has undergone modification such
as, for example, glycosylation of certain amino acid residues to produce a glycoprotein, or
another molecule formed of two or more biological building blocks. In other embodiments
the biological product is a genome of a synthetic bacteria or a portion thereof. In a particular
embodiment the biological product is an influenza virus and the sequence information is
information that is used to prepare a vaccine against the biological threat. When the
biological product is a virus or virus particle, it can be an attenuated virus or a killed virus or
a harmless virus. In some embodiments the biological entity itself can also be the biological
product. An example of when the biological entity is the biological product is a DNA
vaccine, where the DNA molecule itself is useful as a vaccine. DNA vaccines are comprised
of pieces of DNA that code for pathogen proteins. After injection into the body the host cells
synthesize the pathogen proteins, stimulating an immune response. In one embodiment the
                                                    18

biological entity is a plurality of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) or oligonucleotides that can
be assembled into a double-stranded DNA (dsDNA). A "portion" of a molecule, virus, or
other biological entity can be at least 10% or at least 20% or at least 30% or at least 40% or at
least 50% or at least 60% or at least 70% or at least 80% or at least 90% of the native
molecule or biological entity.
     [0054]     In some embodiments the action of a host cell can be utilized to arrive at the
biological product. In systems and methods where host cells are used they can be located
within a subunit of the assembly unit that can receive a biological entity from another subunit
for further processing, or can simply be maintained in a zone of the reaction container. For
example the host cells can be maintained in a vessel within the subunit. Host cells are useful
in the systems and methods of the invention for a variety of purposes. While in vitro
translation can be used in the systems and methods of the invention, transcription, translation,
and assembly of molecular sub-units can also be performed by host cells. Host cells can also
be used to receive a biological entity and use it to synthesize a biological product. In one
embodiment host cells are transfected with multiple DNAs, which are biological entities
synthesized by a subunit of the assembly unit. The host cells can use the DNAs to make
proteins within the host cells and/or to assemble the proteins into a biological product, for
example a viral particle or portion thereof, or a protein or enzyme having multiple subunits.
Host cells may also be used to replicate phage or viral particles following infection or
transfection.
Methods
     [0055]     The invention provides methods of synthesizing a functional biological entity.
In the invention a digital DNA sequence or coded sequence can be entered into a software
program that automatically designs a synthesis paradigm for the received DNA sequence
(e.g., ARCHETYPE®, Synthetic Genomics, San Diego, CA). The software can break the
sequence into designed overlapping oligonucleotides of, for example, about 50-80 bases or
about 40-90 bases or about 30-100 bases or about 30-60 bases or about 30-80 bases or 20-100
bases or 20-80 bases or 10-100 bases or 10-90 bases or 10-80 bases, and any of these sizes
can be used as the oligonucleotides of the invention. The oligonucleotide sequences are then
transmitted to the sub-units of the system for assembly. In a particular embodiment the
software can design the oligonucleotides to contain an overlap of about 30 bp (± 5% or
10%) between adjacent oligonucleotides (ssDNA) of about 60 bp. The oligonucleotides can
also be designed to have universal primer-binding domains for PCR amplification and
                                                   19

restriction sites to release the primer-binding domains following the PCR amplification. The
software used in the invention can also have the ability to modify received or desired
sequence into codon-optimized sequences tailored to a particular host organism to be used in
the method. The software can be present in any unit or sub-unit of the system.
     [0056]      The methods can be conducted on one or more samples that are situated in one
or more reaction areas of a reaction container. In some embodiments the reaction container is
a reaction plate. An example of a reaction plate is a 96 well plate, but it will be realized that
the methods can be conducted on a reaction container having any number of reaction areas.
When the reaction container is a reaction plate it can have any convenient number of reaction
wells (areas), such as the 96 reaction wells on a standard 96 well plate. In some
embodiments the methods involve one or more steps of transporting a sample from one zone
of a vessel to a second zone of the vessel.
     [0057]      In some embodiments the method can be completed on a single reaction
container. These embodiments can involve dividing the reaction container into reaction
zones, and transporting one or more samples from one zone of the reaction container to a
second zone of the reaction container to perform distinct steps of a method, but can also
involve leaving all or a portion of the sample in place and moving the reaction container so
that one or more zones of the reaction container are exposed to a different environment. For
example, in a step involving PCR the zone can be located at a point in the system where it is
exposed to a thermocycling schedule. At a DNA assembly step the reaction container can be
located at another point in the system where it is exposed to the conditions appropriate for
DNA assembly. The change of location can be accomplished by a physical movement of the
reaction container or, alternatively, by a movement of one or more units of the system. The
reaction container is thus moved relative to the system of the invention.
     [0058]      A zone of a reaction container is a distinct area of a reaction container
containing one or more reaction areas where sample is collected. Normally each zone of a
reaction container will contain multiple reaction areas, such as the wells in a reaction plate.
But a reaction area does not require a physical barrier or boundary - it requires only that a
distinct reaction can be carried out in the reaction area relative to other reaction areas. A
reaction container can have any number of zones but each zone has one or more reaction
areas for collecting and holding a sample. Each zone of a reaction container is treated in the
same manner or subjected to the same treatment or process in a given time period. For
example the samples present in a zone may all be cycled at the same temperature of a PCR
                                                   20

cycle being executed on that zone of the reaction container, or all reaction samples in a
reaction zone may be picked up in automated fashion and moved to another zone on the same
reaction container.
     [0059]      Thus in one embodiment of the methods a PCR step is performed in a first
reaction zone of the reaction container and an error correction step is performed in a second
zone of the reaction container, and a 2"d PCR step is performed in a third reaction zone of a
reaction container. The methods can also have a step of DNA assembly performed in another
reaction zone of the reaction container, and a transcription step performed in another reaction
zone of the reaction container, and a translation step performed in another reaction zone of
the reaction container, and a transfection step performed in another reaction zone of the
reaction container. Thus, each step of any of the methods described herein can be performed
in a distinct reaction zone of a reaction container.
Kits
     [0060]      The invention further provides kits for use in the systems and methods of the
invention. The kits can contain reagents and components necessary to assemble a biological
product, such as any combination of biological building blocks, building block polymers,
buffers, or other reagents for carrying out a method of the invention on a system of the
invention. Either alone or with any combination of the above reagents and components, the
kits can also contain a reaction container for performing methods of the invention. Any
combination of the reagents or reaction components or reaction containers can be provided in
a container having the members of the kit. Reagents and reagent components can also be
provided in a reagent vessel that fits onto an interface of a system of the invention.
     [0061]      The kits can also include one or more reaction containers that have been
designed to fit onto an interface of a system of the invention and the reaction containers can
be prepared or pre-charged with reagents and/or biological building blocks and/or building
block polymers necessary for the synthesis of a biological entity using a system of the
invention. The kits can also contain instructions for attaching the reaction containers or
reagent vessels to a system of the invention and/or instructions for using the reaction
containers or reagent vessels in a method of the invention. The instructions can also be
provided on a website and the kit can include a link to the website, either instead of or in
addition to the instructions provided with the kit.
     [0062]      Any of the kits of the invention can also include instructions for conducting an
assay of the invention and/or a link to a website providing the same information or
                                                   21

information for preparing and/or using a system of the invention to synthesize a biological
entity and/or for preparing or pre-charging vessels with reagents, components, and/or
biological building blocks necessary to synthesize a biological entity. For example, the
instructions can provide guidance on the type and quantity of reagents to be used in the
systems and methods. The kits can be provided or packaged in a single container or in
multiple containers. The vessels can be made of glass, plastic or any suitable material, and
may also be sterile. One or more vessels can be provided in a sterile container within the
container comprising the kit.
Additional Aspects of the Systems
     [0063]     The systems of the invention can produce a biological entity by carrying out
an automated method. The biological entity can be any desired sequence. In one
embodiment the systems of the invention can be pre-programmed to include desired
sequences or constructs as part of the biological entity. For example the systems of the
invention can be pre-programmed to enable the operator to append a particular sequence to be
synthesized to a plasmid or other vector desirable for the further use of the synthesized
sequence. In other embodiments the systems can synthesize a requested sequence and
append regulatory sequences or promoter sequences or binding elements for trans-acting
factors, or signal sequences to the requested sequence as part of the biological entity. Thus,
when the operator knows that a sequence will be synthesized for later use in a particular host
organism, the system can synthesize the requested sequences with the regulatory sequences
or other desirable sequences particular to the host organism, thus further simplifying and
speeding the preparation of the biological entity or biological product. In addition to being
synthesized by the systems and methods of the invention the regulatory sequences, promoter
sequences, signal sequences, and binding elements for trans-acting factors can also be pre
charged into reagent vessels and/or reaction containers of the invention as pre-made
sequences for use as desired. These pre-made sequences can also be included in any kit of
the invention.
     [0064]     In one embodiment the systems of the invention are programmed to perform
biosecurity screening in order to identify prohibited sequences. The biosecurity screening is
done by comparing the sequence the system has received (in all 6 reading frames) and is
requested to synthesize against a pre-programmed database of prohibited sequences. The
prohibited sequences can be derived from a list of pathogens, biological weapons, or other
biosecurity threats that are prohibited by a local government from being synthesized. The
                                                  22

prohibited sequences can be one or more of DNA or RNA or proteins or peptides. The
system can be programmed so that if a sequence is received that is identified on the list of
prohibited sequences the system will be rendered inoperative or will otherwise not synthesis a
prohibited sequence. Prohibited sequences can also be obtained from the International Gene
Synthesis Consortium. The system can also screen against protein sequences derived from a
prohibited sequences list.
    [0065]      Some embodiments of the systems of the invention perform modifications to
DNA after synthesis, for example in a sub-unit of the system. In other embodiments the
systems can also perform post-transcriptional and/or post-translational modifications. In one
embodiment the system produces a DNA molecule, which can then be modified to produce a
modified DNA molecule. In one embodiment the modification is the methylation of DNA at
particular nucleotides or nucleotide analogs. In another embodiment a sub-unit of the
invention can contain methyltransferases and/or have the capacity to perform phosphorylation
or dephosphorylation on biological entities or biological products of the invention. 2' fluoro
and 2' O-methyl NTPs can also be produced enzymatically or chemically by the system to
improve in vivo stability of DNA or RNA. In another embodiment the system produces a
requested RNA molecule and adds a 7-methylguanosine residue to the 5' end as a 5' cap or a
5'-5' phosphate linkage as a cap, which the system can then methylate to form mature
mCAP. Guanosine-5'-triphosphate-5'guanosine can also be used as an RNA cap. RNA
bases can also be post-transcriptionally modified by the systems using a 2' O-methyl group to
increase melting temperature and increase stability. In another embodiment the system
produces a requested RNA molecule having a poly-A tail, with any number of A residues.
Other embodiments include the inclusion of cleavage signals or sequences, or GU-rich
sequences in the biological entity, which also can be tailored to a particular host cell to be
used in a subsequent procedure. In still more embodiments the systems of the invention
produce a requested peptide, poly-peptide or protein sequence with
Example 1 - Synthesis of a Functional HA and NA DNA Molecules and Protein Moieties
    [0066]      This example illustrates the automated assembly of DNA constructs of HA
and NA genes from an oligonucleotide pool and their transfection into a host cell that
produces viral particles. Influenza viruses are made of a viral envelope containing
glycoproteins wrapped around a central core. The central core contains the viral RNA
genome and other viral proteins that package and protect the RNA. The influenza genome
typically contains eight pieces of RNA with each containing one or two genes encoding viral
                                                 23

proteins. In the case of influenza A, the genome contains 11 genes on eight pieces of RNA,
encoding for 11 proteins, including hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA). Other
proteins include nucleoprotein (NP), M1, M2, NS1, NS2, PA, PB1, PB1-F2 and PB2.
      [0067]     Hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) are glycoproteins present on the
outside of the viral particles. These glycoproteins have key functions in the life cycle of the
virus, including assisting in binding to host cells and reproduction of viral particles. The
assembled virus containing these proteins is therefore useful in the production of a vaccine.
Oligonucleotide Synthesis and Assembly
      [0068]     A pool of 96 oligonucleotides representing the sequence of DNA constructs of
the HA and NA genes were provided to an assembly unit of the invention. The HA and NA
constructs were approximately 3 kb in length and were assembled from 96 oligonucleotides
in the method. The first and last oligonucleotides contained primer binding domains for PCR
amplification and NotI restriction sites to release the primer binding domains following
amplification and expose overlapping regions for DNA assembly, if necessary to assemble
larger fragments.
      [0069]     The assembly unit utilized a BIOMEK@ NXP, Span-8 laboratory automation
workstation (Beckman Instruments Inc., Fullerton, CA) with integrated thermal-cycling
capabilities.
      [0070]     The assembly unit was programmed to perform several different steps in the
process namely, 1) PRC 1 amplification to amplify oligonucleotides; 2) an error correction
step on the PCR1 amplified oligonucleotides; 3) a PCR2 step to amplify the corrected
oligonucleotides; 4) a PCR product purification step to provide pure amplified
oligonucleotides; 5) an assembly step to assemble the oligonucleotide products into a gene.
Each process can be performed in a distinct reaction zone of the reaction container (which is
a 96 well plate), and the reaction zone can be one or more columns on the 96 well plate.
Assembly reaction is at 50 'C for 30-60 minutes and the reaction is temperature shifted and
held at 10 'C thereafter.
1 't PCR and error correction
      [0071]     1. For each assembled product PCR reactions were performed in automated
fashion:
         25 pl 2X PHUSION@ Hot-Start Master Mix (Thermo Fisher Scientific Oy, Oy, Fl)
         2 pl 1% PEG 8000
         0.25 pl Terminal Primer 1 (100 uM)
                                                   24

       0.25 pl Terminal Primer 2 (100 uM)
       20 pl MBG water
       2.5 pl of the oligo pool above was transferred at 50 nM as template to a reaction zone
       of the reaction container containing PCR master mix (or combine subsequently).
       2. Thermal-cycle occurred using the following parameters:
       98 'C for 1 min
       30X (98 'C 30 sec, 65 C 6 minutes and extending that by 15 sec/cycle
       72 C for 5 min
        10 'C forever
       Error Correction
       Denaturation/annealling by thermocycling using the following parameters:
       98    C for 2 min
       2 'C/sec to 85 'C
        85 'C for 2 min
       0.1 'C/sec to 25 C
       25 'C 2 min
        10 'C forever
       2.7 pl was removed and added to 8.3 ul of error correction mix comprising 5.3 ul
       water/2 ul SURVEYOR TM nuclease (Transgenomic, Inc., Omaha, NE) /1 ul 1:4000
       diluted Exo III.
       Thermo-cycled at 42 'C for 1 hour, 10 'C forever
       2nd PCR
    [0072]      See above for Master Mix recipe.
       2.5 pl of error-corrected sample was used in a 50 ul total reaction volume.
        See above for the thermal cycler conditions.
       PCR Purification
       PCR product was purified using the AMPURE@ XP technology (Agencourt,
       Bioscience Corp. Beverly, MA)
GIBSON ASSEMBLY@ (Synthetic Genomics, San Diego, CA) to combine sub
assemblies into HA and NA genes Within Plasmid Vectors.
    Nucleic acid constructs of approximately 3 kb were produced. The electrophoretic gels
are shown in Fig. 2. These genes already include promoter regions (pol I and pol II) for
expression following transfection into mammalian cells.
                                                25

        Genes were cloned into pUC19 using GIBSON ASSEMBLY® mix with the vector.
        The following were combined:
        5 pl of mix
        5 pl of DNA amplicon
        The mix was incubated within the reaction container on the thermo-cycler 50 'C for 1
        hour, then 10 'C forever.
        Transform Plasmid Vector DNA to Host Cells
     [0073]      The next step is to combine the genes with the constant influenza genes to
provide the complete viral genome. The genes are then transfected into MDCK cells to
produce a rescued virus. The cells then produce the virus product, which is ready for harvest.
Example 2 - Generation of Immunological Response
     [0074]      In a further experiment sequences were synthesized in a manner as described
in Example 1 for the influenza A/Shanghai/2/2013 HA gene. The synthetic HA sequences
were cloned into a DNA template containing RNA-dependent RNA polymerase genes,
genetic control elements, and a T7 polymerase promoter according to previously described
self-amplifying RNA vaccine technology (Geall et al., Nonviral delivery of self-amplifying
RNA vaccines, PNAS, Vol. 109, No. 36, pp. 14604-09 (2012)). After verification of the
construct in vitro transcription of the RNA, capping of the RNA, and transfection of BHK
cells with the RNA was carried out. The integrity of the transcribed RNA was demonstrated
by agarose gel electrophoresis (not shown). The cells expressed the H7 HA, as demonstrated
by gel electrophoresis and Western blot with an H7-specific antibody. The RNA was
encapsulated in a lipid nanoparticle (LNP) delivery system and the vaccine was used to
immunize mice (Geall et al., and Hekele et al., Emerging Microbes and Infections (2013) 2,
e52). Two weeks after the first injection, six of seven H7/LNP -immunized mice
seroconverted with H7-specific hemagglutinin inhibition titers ranging from 1:20 to 1:80
(data not shown).
Example 3 - Synthesis of a Functional Phage Particle and Oligonucleotide design
     [0075]      The present invention can be applied to the production of a phage, which can
be useful in phage therapy. In one embodiment the phage is a bacteriophage. Phage therapy
is useful for the treatment of pathogenic bacterial infections, in humans, animals, and plants.
Phage therapy can be particularly useful in applications where the bacteria does not respond
to convention methods of control.
                                                  26

     [0076]     The 5,386 bp PhiX DNA biological sequence is entered into a transmitting
unit of the invention using ARCHETYPE® software (Synthetic Genomics, Inc., San Diego,
CA) (Ref. Seq: NC_001422, sequence below) at a laboratory. The software divides the
sequence into four overlapping fragments of about 1.4 kb each (sub-assemblies of the PhiX
genome sequence). Each fragment overlaps the next by 40 bp to form a circular molecule
when assembled. Each of the four fragments is further divided into 43-45 overlapping
oligonucleotides . These oligonucleotides are about 64 bases in length with 32 bp overlaps.
The first and last oligonucleotides of each of the four overlapping fragments contain primer
binding domains for PCR amplification and Notl restriction sites to release the primer
binding domains, following amplification, and expose overlapping regions for DNA
assembly. Following entry the biological sequence information is transmitted to a receiving
unit located in a laboratory in a remote city.
Oligonucleotide Synthesis
     [0077]     The biological sequence information is received by a receiving unit of the
invention, which in this embodiment is a computer connected to the same computer network
as the transmitting unit. The receiving unit is connected to an assembly unit, which in this
embodiment also has a BIOAUTOMATION            TM  192E oligonucleotide synthesizer
(BioAutomation Corp., Plano, TX) as one sub-unit. All sub-units of the assembly unit are set
up prior to receiving the biological sequence information. Setup includes, but is not limited
to, charging all vessels with requisite chemicals, reagents, and biological building blocks, as
well as preparing all software programming prior to receiving the biological sequence
information so that activation of the synthesis of the biological entity can begin immediately
upon receiving the sequence information. Each step of the method is performed in a distinct
reaction zone of the reaction container.
     [0078]     After receipt of the biological sequence information, software within the
assembly unit directs the synthesis of the oligonucleotides, which are synthesized using the
biological building blocks previously provided to the system (in this case nucleoside
phosphoramidite building blocks). This synthesis is performed on a sub-unit such as an
oligonucleotide synthesizer.
     [0079]     After synthesis the oligonucleotides are cleaved from the solid support by the
addition of concentrated ammonium hydroxide and incubated at 55 'C, each step done in
automated fashion without further human intervention after setup. Oligonucleotides making
up each fragment are separately pooled and purified by passing through a column containing
                                                  27

POLYPAK TM packing (Glen Research, Sterling, VA). Other packings can also be used that
are stable in the pH range 1-13. Thus, the ammonium hydroxide solution, diluted with water,
is loaded directly onto the packing. After elution of failure sequences, the trityl protecting
group is removed and washed from the support-bound oligonucleotide. The fully deprotected
product can then be eluted and isolated by lyophilization. Deprotection procedures suitable
for automation are used, for example on-column deprotection using Ethylenediamine
(EDA)/Toluene solution. A paramagnetic bead-based purification system can also be used,
an example of which is AGENCOURT@ COSMCPREP@ (Agencourt Bioscience Corp.,
Beverly, MA). Following the above procedure the four pools of oligonucleotides making up
each of the four fragments required to produce overlapping dsDNA fragments of PhiX are
produced.
GIBSON ASSEMBLY@ (Synthetic Genomics, San Diego, CA) to produce four
overlapping PhiX subassemblies
     [0080]      The following steps are also performed in automated fashion by the assembly
unit, which can have as many sub-units as necessary and convenient. Each sub-unit of the
assembly unit is pre-charged with reagents as necessary to perform all steps. After
oligonucleotide assembly a robotic arm is used to transfer the reaction container from the
oligo synthesizer to a liquid handler with thermo-cycling capabilities. In a fully automated
fashion, 10 pl of each of the four oligonucleotide pools above are added to 10 ul of PCR
assembly reagents - one can utilize a dilution of about 10 pM. A convenient form of PCR
reagents is 2X HF PHUSION@ Mix (Thermo Fisher Scientific Oy, Oy, Fl). The protocol is
set forth below.
     [0081]      Assembly reaction is at 50 'C for 30-60 minutes and the reaction is
temperature shifted and held at 10 'C thereafter.
         1 't PCR and error correction
     [0082]      1. For each assembled product PCR reactions are performed in automated
fashion:
        25.00 pl 2X HF PHUSION@ Mix (Thermo Fisher Scientific Oy, Oy, Fl)
        0.25 pl Terminal Primer 1 (100 pM)
        0.25 pl Terminal Primer 2 (100 pM)
        22 pl Water
        2.5 pl Template (GIBSON ASSEMBLY® (Synthetic Genomics, Inc., San Diego,
        CA) of the reaction product from above)
                                                  28

        2. Thermal-cycle occurs using the following parameters:
        98 'C for 1 min
        Cycle 25X {98 'C for 10 sec, 60 'C for 30 sec., 72 'C for 1.5 min)
        72 C for 5 min
        98 'C for 2 min
        Increase 2 'C /sec to 85 'C
        85 'C for 2 min
        Decrease 0.1 'C /sec to 25 'C
        25 'C for 2 min
        Hold at 10 'C thereafter
        3. 6.25 pl of S/E error correction mix is added (protocol below) to each sample
        4. Error correction reaction is at 42 'C for 1 hour and then the reaction is temperature
        shifted and held at 10 'C thereafter.
        2nd PCR
    [0083]       1. The following four PCR reactions are also performed in automated fashion
by the thermo-cycling sub-unit of the assembly unit:
        25.00 ul 2X HOTSTART-IT@ Taq Master Mix (Affymetrix, Inc., Santa Clara, CA) or
        alternative (PHUSION@ (Thermo Fisher Scientific Oy, Oy, Fl) per reaction
        0.25 pl Primer 1 (100 pM)
        0.25 pl Primer 2 (100 pM)
        22.00 pl MBG Water
        2.50 pl Error corrected template from above.
GIBSON ASSEMBLYTM {Synthetic Genomics, San Diego, CA) to combine four sub
assemblies into phiX genome
        The following procedure is performed in automated fashion:
        1. 2.5 pl of each of the four amplicons is removed from the 2nd PCR above and
        pooled into another coordinate of a 96-well plate.
        2. 2 pl of Notl restriction enzyme is added and incubated at 37 'C for 1 hour, then 65
        'C for 20 minutes to inactivate the Notl enzyme.
        3. 12 pl 2X GIBSON ASSEMBLYTM (Synthetic Genomics, Inc., San Diego, CA)
        master mix is added and incubated at 50 'C for 1 hour.
                                                  29

         Production of active PhiX virus
     [0084]      In this step active virus particles are produced. These steps are also performed
in automated fashion. Following DNA synthesis and assembly as described above, the
assembled (DX 174 genome is combined with chemically-competent E. coli strain C or
another qX174-senstive E. coli strain (e.g., DH10). Following the heat-shock at 42'C, cells
are recovered in SOC medium.
         1. 5 pl of assembly reaction above is combined with 50 pl of chemically competent
         DH10 E. coli cells in a vessel.
         2. Thermal-cycling is performed according to the following conditions:
         4 'C for 2 min
         42 'C for 30 sec
         4 'C for 2 min
         3. 150 pl SOC medium is added and cells are incubated at 37 'C for several hours
     [0085]      Active phage particles are purified from E. coli and tested for capacity to form
plaques when spread on LB agar plates containing E. coli cells (Smith et al, PNAS 2003).
     [0086]      As an alternative approach to transforming E. coli cells, it is also possible to
test for the capacity to form active phage particles in a cell-free system. In this embodiment,
synthetic genomes are incubated for 2 hours in one of the cell-free expression kits described
above.
         REAGENT COMPONENTS
         Components for GIBSON ASSEMBLY® (Synthetic Genomics, Inc., San Diego,
         CA).
         1. 5X isothermal (ISO) reaction buffer (25% PEG-8000, 500 mM Tris-HCI pH 8.0, 50
         mM
         MgCl 2 , 50 mM DTT, 1 mM each of the 4 dNTPs, and 5 mM NAD). This is prepared
         as described below.
         2. T5 exonuclease
         3. PHUSION@ High Fidelity DNA polymerase (Thermo Fisher Scientific Oy, Oy, Fl)
         4. Taq DNA ligase
         Procedure
         1. 5X ISO buffer is prepared. Six ml of this buffer can be prepared by combining the
         following:
         3 ml of 1 M Tris-HCI pH 8.0
                                                     30

      300 pl of 1 M MgCI2
      600 pl of 10 mM dNTPs
      300 pl of 1 M DTT (1.54 g dissolved in dH20 up to 10 ml)
      1.5 g PEG-8000
      300 pl of 100 mM NAD (0.66 g dissolved in dH20 up to 10 ml; resuspend by heating
      at 50 'C followed by continuous vortexing)
      Water is added to 6 mi. Aliquot 1 ml and store at -20 'C.
      2. 800 pl of the assembly master mixture is prepared, sufficient for 80 reactions. This
      can be prepared by combining the following:
      320 pI 5X ISO buffer
      6.4 pl of 1 U/pl T5 exo (diluted 1:10 from enzyme stock in 1x T5 exo buffer)
      20 ul of 2 U/pl PHUSION@ High Fidelity DNA polymerase (Thermo Fisher
      Scientific Oy, Oy, Fl)
      80 pl of 40 U/pl Taq ligase
      374 pI dH20
      The mixture is mixed well and stored at -20 'C, or on ice if to be used immediately.
      3. The assembly mixture can be stored at -20 'C for at least one year. The enzymes
      remain active following at least 10 freeze-thaw cycles.
      The mixture is ideal for the assembly of DNA molecules with 20-150 bp overlaps.
ERROR CORRECTION MIX COMPONENTS-SURVEYOR NUCLEASE+
EXONUCLEASE III (S/E)
      250 pl of SURVEYOR TM Nuclease (Transgenomic Inc., Omaha, NE) + 0.03125 pl
      Exonuclease Ill
PhiX genome sequence:
SEQ ID NO: 5
GAGTTTTATCGCTTCCATGACGCAGAAGTTAACACTTTCGGATATTTCTGATGAG
TCGAAAAATTATCTTGATAAAGCAGGAATTACTACTGCTTGTTTACGAATTAAAT
CGAAGTGGACTGCTGGCGGAAAATGAGAAAATTCGACCTATCCTTGCGCAGCTC
GAGAAGCTCTTACTTTGCGACCTTTCGCCATCAACTAACGATTCTGTCAAAAACT
GACGCGTTGGATGAGGAGAAGTGGCTTAATATGCTTGGCACGTTCGTCAAGGAC
TGGTTTAGATATGAGTCACATTTTGTTCATGGTAGAGATTCTCTTGTTGACATTTT
AAAAGAGCGTGGATTACTATCTGAGTCCGATGCTGTTCAACCACTAATAGGTAAG
AAATCATGAGTCAAGTTACTGAACAATCCGTACGTTTCCAGACCGCTTTGGCCTC
                                               31

TATTAAGCTCATTCAGGCTTCTGCCGTTTTGGATTTAACCGAAGATGATTTCGATT
TTCTGACGAGTAACAAAGTTTGGATTGCTACTGACCGCTCTCGTGCTCGTCGCTG
CGTTGAGGCTTGCGTTTATGGTACGCTGGACTTTGTGGGATACCCTCGCTTTCCTG
CTCCTGTTGAGTTTATTGCTGCCGTCATTGCTTATTATGTTCATCCCGTCAACATT
CAAACGGCCTGTCTCATCATGGAAGGCGCTGAATTTACGGAAAACATTATTAATG
GCGTCGAGCGTCCGGTTAAAGCCGCTGAATTGTTCGCGTTTACCTTGCGTGTACG
CGCAGGAAACACTGACGTTCTTACTGACGCAGAAGAAAACGTGCGTCAAAAATT
ACGTGCGGAAGGAGTGATGTAATGTCTAAAGGTAAAAAACGTTCTGGCGCTCGC
CCTGGTCGTCCGCAGCCGTTGCGAGGTACTAAAGGCAAGCGTAAAGGCGCTCGT
CTTTGGTATGTAGGTGGTCAACAATTTTAATTGCAGGGGCTTCGGCCCCTTACTTG
AGGATAAATTATGTCTAATATTCAAACTGGCGCCGAGCGTATGCCGCATGACCTT
TCCCATCTTGGCTTCCTTGCTGGTCAGATTGGTCGTCTTATTACCATTTCAACTAC
TCCGGTTATCGCTGGCGACTCCTTCGAGATGGACGCCGTTGGCGCTCTCCGTCTTT
CTCCATTGCGTCGTGGCCTTGCTATTGACTCTACTGTAGACATTTTTACTTTTTAT
GTCCCTCATCGTCACGTTTATGGTGAACAGTGGATTAAGTTCATGAAGGATGGTG
TTAATGCCACTCCTCTCCCGACTGTTAACACTACTGGTTATATTGACCATGCCGCT
TTTCTTGGCACGATTAACCCTGATACCAATAAAATCCCTAAGCATTTGTTTCAGG
GTTATTTGAATATCTATAACAACTATTTTAAAGCGCCGTGGATGCCTGACCGTAC
CGAGGCTAACCCTAATGAGCTTAATCAAGATGATGCTCGTTATGGTTTCCGTTGC
TGCCATCTCAAAAACATTTGGACTGCTCCGCTTCCTCCTGAGACTGAGCTTTCTCG
CCAAATGACGACTTCTACCACATCTATTGACATTATGGGTCTGCAAGCTGCTTAT
GCTAATTTGCATACTGACCAAGAACGTGATTACTTCATGCAGCGTTACCATGATG
TTATTTCTTCATTTGGAGGTAAAACCTCTTATGACGCTGACAACCGTCCTTTACTT
GTCATGCGCTCTAATCTCTGGGCATCTGGCTATGATGTTGATGGAACTGACCAAA
CGTCGTTAGGCCAGTTTTCTGGTCGTGTTCAACAGACCTATAAACATTCTGTGCC
GCGTTTCTTTGTTCCTGAGCATGGCACTATGTTTACTCTTGCGCTTGTTCGTTTTCC
GCCTACTGCGACTAAAGAGATTCAGTACCTTAACGCTAAAGGTGCTTTGACTTAT
ACCGATATTGCTGGCGACCCTGTTTTGTATGGCAACTTGCCGCCGCGTGAAATTT
CTATGAAGGATGTTTTCCGTTCTGGTGATTCGTCTAAGAAGTTTAAGATTGCTGA
GGGTCAGTGGTATCGTTATGCGCCTTCGTATGTTTCTCCTGCTTATCACCTTCTTG
AAGGCTTCCCATTCATTCAGGAACCGCCTTCTGGTGATTTGCAAGAACGCGTACT
TATTCGCCACCATGATTATGACCAGTGTTTCCAGTCCGTTCAGTTGTTGCAGTGGA
ATAGTCAGGTTAAATTTAATGTGACCGTTTATCGCAATCTGCCGACCACTCGCGA
                             32

TTCAATCATGACTTCGTGATAAAAGATTGAGTGTGAGGTTATAACGCCGAAGCGG
TAAAAATTTTAATTTTTGCCGCTGAGGGGTTGACCAAGCGAAGCGCGGTAGGTTT
TCTGCTTAGGAGTTTAATCATGTTTCAGACTTTTATTTCTCGCCATAATTCAAACT
TTTTTTCTGATAAGCTGGTTCTCACTTCTGTTACTCCAGCTTCTTCGGCACCTGTTT
TACAGACACCTAAAGCTACATCGTCAACGTTATATTTTGATAGTTTGACGGTTAA
TGCTGGTAATGGTGGTTTTCTTCATTGCATTCAGATGGATACATCTGTCAACGCCG
CTAATCAGGTTGTTTCTGTTGGTGCTGATATTGCTTTTGATGCCGACCCTAAATTT
TTTGCCTGTTTGGTTCGCTTTGAGTCTTCTTCGGTTCCGACTACCCTCCCGACTGC
CTATGATGTTTATCCTTTGAATGGTCGCCATGATGGTGGTTATTATACCGTCAAGG
ACTGTGTGACTATTGACGTCCTTCCCCGTACGCCGGGCAATAACGTTTATGTTGG
TTTCATGGTTTGGTCTAACTTTACCGCTACTAAATGCCGCGGATTGGTTTCGCTGA
ATCAGGTTATTAAAGAGATTATTTGTCTCCAGCCACTTAAGTGAGGTGATTTATG
TTTGGTGCTATTGCTGGCGGTATTGCTTCTGCTCTTGCTGGTGGCGCCATGTCTAA
ATTGTTTGGAGGCGGTCAAAAAGCCGCCTCCGGTGGCATTCAAGGTGATGTGCTT
GCTACCGATAACAATACTGTAGGCATGGGTGATGCTGGTATTAAATCTGCCATTC
AAGGCTCTAATGTTCCTAACCCTGATGAGGCCGCCCCTAGTTTTGTTTCTGGTGCT
ATGGCTAAAGCTGGTAAAGGACTTCTTGAAGGTACGTTGCAGGCTGGCACTTCTG
CCGTTTCTGATAAGTTGCTTGATTTGGTTGGACTTGGTGGCAAGTCTGCCGCTGAT
AAAGGAAAGGATACTCGTGATTATCTTGCTGCTGCATTTCCTGAGCTTAATGCTT
GGGAGCGTGCTGGTGCTGATGCTTCCTCTGCTGGTATGGTTGACGCCGGATTTGA
GAATCAAAAAGAGCTTACTAAAATGCAACTGGACAATCAGAAAGAGATTGCCGA
GATGCAAAATGAGACTCAAAAAGAGATTGCTGGCATTCAGTCGGCGACTTCACG
CCAGAATACGAAAGACCAGGTATATGCACAAAATGAGATGCTTGCTTATCAACA
GAAGGAGTCTACTGCTCGCGTTGCGTCTATTATGGAAAACACCAATCTTTCCAAG
CAACAGCAGGTTTCCGAGATTATGCGCCAAATGCTTACTCAAGCTCAAACGGCTG
GTCAGTATTTTACCAATGACCAAATCAAAGAAATGACTCGCAAGGTTAGTGCTGA
GGTTGACTTAGTTCATCAGCAAACGCAGAATCAGCGGTATGGCTCTTCTCATATT
GGCGCTACTGCAAAGGATATTTCTAATGTCGTCACTGATGCTGCTTCTGGTGTGG
TTGATATTTTTCATGGTATTGATAAAGCTGTTGCCGATACTTGGAACAATTTCTGG
AAAGACGGTAAAGCTGATGGTATTGGCTCTAATTTGTCTAGGAAATAACCGTCAG
GATTGACACCCTCCCAATTGTATGTTTTCATGCCTCCAAATCTTGGAGGCTTTTTT
ATGGTTCGTTCTTATTACCCTTCTGAATGTCACGCTGATTATTTTGACTTTGAGCG
TATCGAGGCTCTTAAACCTGCTATTGAGGCTTGTGGCATTTCTACTCTTTCTCAAT
                             33

CCCCAATGCTTGGCTTCCATAAGCAGATGGATAACCGCATCAAGCTCTTGGAAGA
GATTCTGTCTTTTCGTATGCAGGGCGTTGAGTTCGATAATGGTGATATGTATGTTG
ACGGCCATAAGGCTGCTTCTGACGTTCGTGATGAGTTTGTATCTGTTACTGAGAA
GTTAATGGATGAATTGGCACAATGCTACAATGTGCTCCCCCAACTTGATATTAAT
AACACTATAGACCACCGCCCCGAAGGGGACGAAAAATGGTTTTTAGAGAACGAG
AAGACGGTTACGCAGTTTTGCCGCAAGCTGGCTGCTGAACGCCCTCTTAAGGATA
TTCGCGATGAGTATAATTACCCCAAAAAGAAAGGTATTAAGGATGAGTGTTCAA
GATTGCTGGAGGCCTCCACTATGAAATCGCGTAGAGGCTTTGCTATTCAGCGTTT
GATGAATGCAATGCGACAGGCTCATGCTGATGGTTGGTTTATCGTTTTTGACACT
CTCACGTTGGCTGACGACCGATTAGAGGCGTTTTATGATAATCCCAATGCTTTGC
GTGACTATTTTCGTGATATTGGTCGTATGGTTCTTGCTGCCGAGGGTCGCAAGGC
TAATGATTCACACGCCGACTGCTATCAGTATTTTTGTGTGCCTGAGTATGGTACA
GCTAATGGCCGTCTTCATTTCCATGCGGTGCACTTTATGCGGACACTTCCTACAG
GTAGCGTTGACCCTAATTTTGGTCGTCGGGTACGCAATCGCCGCCAGTTAAATAG
CTTGCAAAATACGTGGCCTTATGGTTACAGTATGCCCATCGCAGTTCGCTACACG
CAGGACGCTTTTTCACGTTCTGGTTGGTTGTGGCCTGTTGATGCTAAAGGTGAGC
CGCTTAAAGCTACCAGTTATATGGCTGTTGGTTTCTATGTGGCTAAATACGTTAA
CAAAAAGTCAGATATGGACCTTGCTGCTAAAGGTCTAGGAGCTAAAGAATGGAA
CAACTCACTAAAAACCAAGCTGTCGCTACTTCCCAAGAAGCTGTTCAGAATCAGA
ATGAGCCGCAACTTCGGGATGAAAATGCTCACAATGACAAATCTGTCCACGGAG
TGCTTAATCCAACTTACCAAGCTGGGTTACGACGCGACGCCGTTCAACCAGATAT
TGAAGCAGAACGCAAAAAGAGAGATGAGATTGAGGCTGGGAAAAGTTACTGTA
GCCGACGTTTTGGCGGCGCAACCTGTGACGACAAATCTGCTCAAATTTATGCGCG
CTTCGATAAAAATGATTGGCGTATCCAACCTGCA
SEQ ID NO: 1 - Fragmnent # 1:
GAGTTTTATCGCTTCCATGACGCAGAAGTTAACACTTTCGGATATTTCTGATGAG
TCGAAAAATTATCTTGATAAAGCAGGAATTACTACTGCTTGTTTACGAATTAAAT
CGAAGTGGACTGCTGGCGGAAAATGAGAAAATTCGACCTATCCTTGCGCAGCTC
GAGAAGCTCTTACTTTGCGACCTTTCGCCATCAACTAACGATTCTGTCAAAAACT
GACGCGTTGGATGAGGAGAAGTGGCTTAATATGCTTGGCACGTTCGTCAAGGAC
TGGTTTAGATATGAGTCACATTTTGTTCATGGTAGAGATTCTCTTGTTGACATTTT
AAAAGAGCGTGGATTACTATCTGAGTCCGATGCTGTTCAACCACTAATAGGTAAG
AAATCATGAGTCAAGTTACTGAACAATCCGTACGTTTCCAGACCGCTTTGGCCTC
                              34

TATTAAGCTCATTCAGGCTTCTGCCGTTTTGGATTTAACCGAAGATGATTTCGATT
TTCTGACGAGTAACAAAGTTTGGATTGCTACTGACCGCTCTCGTGCTCGTCGCTG
CGTTGAGGCTTGCGTTTATGGTACGCTGGACTTTGTGGGATACCCTCGCTTTCCTG
CTCCTGTTGAGTTTATTGCTGCCGTCATTGCTTATTATGTTCATCCCGTCAACATT
CAAACGGCCTGTCTCATCATGGAAGGCGCTGAATTTACGGAAAACATTATTAATG
GCGTCGAGCGTCCGGTTAAAGCCGCTGAATTGTTCGCGTTTACCTTGCGTGTACG
CGCAGGAAACACTGACGTTCTTACTGACGCAGAAGAAAACGTGCGTCAAAAATT
ACGTGCGGAAGGAGTGATGTAATGTCTAAAGGTAAAAAACGTTCTGGCGCTCGC
CCTGGTCGTCCGCAGCCGTTGCGAGGTACTAAAGGCAAGCGTAAAGGCGCTCGT
CTTTGGTATGTAGGTGGTCAACAATTTTAATTGCAGGGGCTTCGGCCCCTTACTTG
AGGATAAATTATGTCTAATATTCAAACTGGCGCCGAGCGTATGCCGCATGACCTT
TCCCATCTTGGCTTCCTTGCTGGTCAGATTGGTCGTCTTATTACCATTTCAACTAC
TCCGGTTATCGCTGGCGACTCCTTCGAGATGGACGCCGTTGGCGCTCTCCGTCTTT
CTCCATTGCGTCGTGGCCTTGCTATTGACTCTACTGTAGACATTTTTACTTTTTAT
GTCCCTCATCGTCACGTTTATGGTGAACAGTGGATTAAGTTCATGAAGGATGGTG
TTAATGCCACTCCTCTCCCGACTGTTAACACTACTGGTTATATTGACCATGCCGCT
TTTCTTGGCACGATTAACCCTGATACCAATAAAATCCCTAAGCATTTGTTTCAGG
GTTATTTGAATATCTATAACA
SEQ ID NO: 2 - Fragment # 2:
CCTAAGCATTTGTTTCAGGGTTATTTGAATATCTATAACAACTATTTTAAAGCGCC
GTGGATGCCTGACCGTACCGAGGCTAACCCTAATGAGCTTAATCAAGATGATGCT
CGTTATGGTTTCCGTTGCTGCCATCTCAAAAACATTTGGACTGCTCCGCTTCCTCC
TGAGACTGAGCTTTCTCGCCAAATGACGACTTCTACCACATCTATTGACATTATG
GGTCTGCAAGCTGCTTATGCTAATTTGCATACTGACCAAGAACGTGATTACTTCA
TGCAGCGTTACCATGATGTTATTTCTTCATTTGGAGGTAAAACCTCTTATGACGCT
GACAACCGTCCTTTACTTGTCATGCGCTCTAATCTCTGGGCATCTGGCTATGATGT
TGATGGAACTGACCAAACGTCGTTAGGCCAGTTTTCTGGTCGTGTTCAACAGACC
TATAAACATTCTGTGCCGCGTTTCTTTGTTCCTGAGCATGGCACTATGTTTACTCT
TGCGCTTGTTCGTTTTCCGCCTACTGCGACTAAAGAGATTCAGTACCTTAACGCTA
AAGGTGCTTTGACTTATACCGATATTGCTGGCGACCCTGTTTTGTATGGCAACTTG
CCGCCGCGTGAAATTTCTATGAAGGATGTTTTCCGTTCTGGTGATTCGTCTAAGA
AGTTTAAGATTGCTGAGGGTCAGTGGTATCGTTATGCGCCTTCGTATGTTTCTCCT
GCTTATCACCTTCTTGAAGGCTTCCCATTCATTCAGGAACCGCCTTCTGGTGATTT
                             35

GCAAGAACGCGTACTTATTCGCCACCATGATTATGACCAGTGTTTCCAGTCCGTT
CAGTTGTTGCAGTGGAATAGTCAGGTTAAATTTAATGTGACCGTTTATCGCAATC
TGCCGACCACTCGCGATTCAATCATGACTTCGTGATAAAAGATTGAGTGTGAGGT
TATAACGCCGAAGCGGTAAAAATTTTAATTTTTGCCGCTGAGGGGTTGACCAAGC
GAAGCGCGGTAGGTTTTCTGCTTAGGAGTTTAATCATGTTTCAGACTTTTATTTCT
CGCCATAATTCAAACTTTTTTTCTGATAAGCTGGTTCTCACTTCTGTTACTCCAGC
TTCTTCGGCACCTGTTTTACAGACACCTAAAGCTACATCGTCAACGTTATATTTTG
ATAGTTTGACGGTTAATGCTGGTAATGGTGGTTTTCTTCATTGCATTCAGATGGAT
ACATCTGTCAACGCCGCTAATCAGGTTGTTTCTGTTGGTGCTGATATTGCTTTTGA
TGCCGACCCTAAATTTTTTGCCTGTTTGGTTCGCTTTGAGTCTTCTTCGGTTCCGA
CTACCCTCCCGACTGCCTATGATGTTTATCCTTTGAATGGTCGCCATGATGGTGGT
TATTATACC
SEQ ID NO: 3 - Fragment # 3:
TTATCCTTTGAATGGTCGCCATGATGGTGGTTATTATACCGTCAAGGACTGTGTG
ACTATTGACGTCCTTCCCCGTACGCCGGGCAATAACGTTTATGTTGGTTTCATGGT
TTGGTCTAACTTTACCGCTACTAAATGCCGCGGATTGGTTTCGCTGAATCAGGTT
ATTAAAGAGATTATTTGTCTCCAGCCACTTAAGTGAGGTGATTTATGTTTGGTGCT
ATTGCTGGCGGTATTGCTTCTGCTCTTGCTGGTGGCGCCATGTCTAAATTGTTTGG
AGGCGGTCAAAAAGCCGCCTCCGGTGGCATTCAAGGTGATGTGCTTGCTACCGAT
AACAATACTGTAGGCATGGGTGATGCTGGTATTAAATCTGCCATTCAAGGCTCTA
ATGTTCCTAACCCTGATGAGGCCGCCCCTAGTTTTGTTTCTGGTGCTATGGCTAAA
GCTGGTAAAGGACTTCTTGAAGGTACGTTGCAGGCTGGCACTTCTGCCGTTTCTG
ATAAGTTGCTTGATTTGGTTGGACTTGGTGGCAAGTCTGCCGCTGATAAAGGAAA
GGATACTCGTGATTATCTTGCTGCTGCATTTCCTGAGCTTAATGCTTGGGAGCGTG
CTGGTGCTGATGCTTCCTCTGCTGGTATGGTTGACGCCGGATTTGAGAATCAAAA
AGAGCTTACTAAAATGCAACTGGACAATCAGAAAGAGATTGCCGAGATGCAAAA
TGAGACTCAAAAAGAGATTGCTGGCATTCAGTCGGCGACTTCACGCCAGAATAC
GAAAGACCAGGTATATGCACAAAATGAGATGCTTGCTTATCAACAGAAGGAGTC
TACTGCTCGCGTTGCGTCTATTATGGAAAACACCAATCTTTCCAAGCAACAGCAG
GTTTCCGAGATTATGCGCCAAATGCTTACTCAAGCTCAAACGGCTGGTCAGTATT
TTACCAATGACCAAATCAAAGAAATGACTCGCAAGGTTAGTGCTGAGGTTGACTT
AGTTCATCAGCAAACGCAGAATCAGCGGTATGGCTCTTCTCATATTGGCGCTACT
GCAAAGGATATTTCTAATGTCGTCACTGATGCTGCTTCTGGTGTGGTTGATATTTT
                             36

TCATGGTATTGATAAAGCTGTTGCCGATACTTGGAACAATTTCTGGAAAGACGGT
AAAGCTGATGGTATTGGCTCTAATTTGTCTAGGAAATAACCGTCAGGATTGACAC
CCTCCCAATTGTATGTTTTCATGCCTCCAAATCTTGGAGGCTTTTTTATGGTTCGT
TCTTATTACCCTTCTGAATGTCACGCTGATTATTTTGACTTTGAGCGTATCGAGGC
TCTTAAACCTGCTATTGAGGCTTGTGGCATTTCTACTCTTTCTCAATCCCCAATGC
TTGGCTTCCATAAGCAGAT
SEQ ID NO: 4 - Fragment #4:
CTCTTTCTCAATCCCCAATGCTTGGCTTCCATAAGCAGATGGATAACCGCATCAA
GCTCTTGGAAGAGATTCTGTCTTTTCGTATGCAGGGCGTTGAGTTCGATAATGGT
GATATGTATGTTGACGGCCATAAGGCTGCTTCTGACGTTCGTGATGAGTTTGTAT
CTGTTACTGAGAAGTTAATGGATGAATTGGCACAATGCTACAATGTGCTCCCCCA
ACTTGATATTAATAACACTATAGACCACCGCCCCGAAGGGGACGAAAAATGGTT
TTTAGAGAACGAGAAGACGGTTACGCAGTTTTGCCGCAAGCTGGCTGCTGAACG
CCCTCTTAAGGATATTCGCGATGAGTATAATTACCCCAAAAAGAAAGGTATTAAG
GATGAGTGTTCAAGATTGCTGGAGGCCTCCACTATGAAATCGCGTAGAGGCTTTG
CTATTCAGCGTTTGATGAATGCAATGCGACAGGCTCATGCTGATGGTTGGTTTAT
CGTTTTTGACACTCTCACGTTGGCTGACGACCGATTAGAGGCGTTTTATGATAAT
CCCAATGCTTTGCGTGACTATTTTCGTGATATTGGTCGTATGGTTCTTGCTGCCGA
GGGTCGCAAGGCTAATGATTCACACGCCGACTGCTATCAGTATTTTTGTGTGCCT
GAGTATGGTACAGCTAATGGCCGTCTTCATTTCCATGCGGTGCACTTTATGCGGA
CACTTCCTACAGGTAGCGTTGACCCTAATTTTGGTCGTCGGGTACGCAATCGCCG
CCAGTTAAATAGCTTGCAAAATACGTGGCCTTATGGTTACAGTATGCCCATCGCA
GTTCGCTACACGCAGGACGCTTTTTCACGTTCTGGTTGGTTGTGGCCTGTTGATGC
TAAAGGTGAGCCGCTTAAAGCTACCAGTTATATGGCTGTTGGTTTCTATGTGGCT
AAATACGTTAACAAAAAGTCAGATATGGACCTTGCTGCTAAAGGTCTAGGAGCT
AAAGAATGGAACAACTCACTAAAAACCAAGCTGTCGCTACTTCCCAAGAAGCTG
TTCAGAATCAGAATGAGCCGCAACTTCGGGATGAAAATGCTCACAATGACAAAT
CTGTCCACGGAGTGCTTAATCCAACTTACCAAGCTGGGTTACGACGCGACGCCGT
TCAACCAGATATTGAAGCAGAACGCAAAAAGAGAGATGAGATTGAGGCTGGGA
AAAGTTACTGTAGCCGACGTTTTGGCGGCGCAACCTGTGACGACAAATCTGCTCA
AATTTATGCGCGCTTCGATAAAAATGATTGGCGTATCCAACCTGCAGAGTTTTAT
CGCTTCCATGACGCAGAAGTTAACACTTTCG
                             37

Example 4 - Synthesis of a Functional DNA Molecule and Protein Moiety
    [0087]      The nucleic acid sequence encoding a functional green fluorescent protein
(GFP) and appropriate regulatory sequences for expression is entered into ARCHETYPE®
(Synthetic Genomics, Inc., San Diego, CA) or another software that divides the sequence into
about 60 bp oligonucleotides with about 30 bp overlaps. The first and last oligonucleotides
contain primer binding domains for PCR amplification and NotI restriction sites to release the
primer binding domains following amplification and expose overlapping regions for DNA
assembly, if necessary to assemble larger fragments.
    [0088]      The system includes a BIOMEK@ NXP, Span-8 laboratory automation
workstation (Beckman Instruments Inc., Fullerton, CA) with integrated thermal-cycling
capabilities as one sub-unit. Additional sub-units include an automated in vitro translation
system containing vessels with reagents for carrying out a cell-free translation of nucleic acid
into protein. Following entry into the transmitting unit the biological sequence information is
transmitted to a receiving unit located in a laboratory in a remote city.
Oligonucleotide Synthesis
    [0089]      Following a synthesis plan similar to those described above the biological
sequence information is received by a receiving unit of the invention, as described in the
Examples. In this embodiment the receiving unit is a computer connected to the same
computer network as the transmitting unit. The receiving unit is connected to an assembly
unit, which in this embodiment has a BIOAUTOMATION            TM 192E oligonucleotide
synthesizer (BioAutomation Corp., Plano, TX) as one sub-unit. The additional sub-units of
the assembly unit, including the sub-unit for in vitro translation, are all set up prior to
receiving the biological sequence information by charging all vessels with requisite
chemicals, reagents, and biological building blocks, as well as preparing all software
programming prior to receiving the biological sequence information so that activation of the
synthesis of the biological entity can begin immediately upon receiving the sequence
information.
    [0090]      After receipt of the biological sequence information software within the
assembly unit directs the synthesis of the oligonucleotides, which are synthesized using
dNTPs or phosphoramidites and other reagents previously provided to the system. This step
is done in the same manner as described above in the Examples and the set of
oligonucleotides are produced, which are then assembled and amplified as described in the
                                                  38

Examples to produce the nucleic acid sequence encoding the GFP gene with appropriate
regulatory sequences necessary for expression.
     [0091]     In vitro and automated transcription and translation can be performed on the
assembled nucleic acid sequence in a distinct reaction zone of the reaction container prepared
for that purpose. Various kits are commercially available for performing in vitro translation
and/or cell-free protein expression and can be conveniently employed in the present
invention, e.g., PIERCE® (Pierce Biotechnology Inc., Rockford, IL) In Vitro Protein
Expression Systems available from THERMO SCIENTIFIC® (Thermo Fisher Scientific,
Inc., Waltham, MA) or the T7 RiboMAX TM Express kit from PROMEGA@ (Promega Corp,
Madison, WI), which can generate 27 kb in vitro transcripts in minutes. Different kits are
available depending on the type and size of protein to be translated. The reaction zone of the
reaction container where the reaction is to be performed is pre-charged with all necessary
reagents. The GFP construct was also designed to contain a T7 or a strong E. coli promoter
upstream of the coding sequence, a ribosome binding site with a spacing sequence of 5-7 bp
upstream of the AUG translational start point and an untranslated region downstream of the
stop coding.
     [0092]     The synthetic PCR product is added to the protein expression components in
the designated reaction zone. Following the expression reaction, a black light is held to the
reaction mixture and the presence of translated GFP is confirmed by the emission of green
light.
Example 5 - Synthesis of an Antigenic Biological Product
     [0093]     HER-2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) is a protein for which
amplification or over-expression play a role in the progression of certain breast cancers. The
protein is encoded by the ERBB2 gene. A number of antibody therapies are available that
target HER-2. A vaccine can be made containing the HER-2 antigen, which can be
administered to a patient who will then form an antigenic response to the vaccine and
produce antibodies to HER-2. The vaccine can be useful in cancer treatments, and in any
therapy where the production of HER-2 antibodies finds useful application.
     [0094]     The sequence of HER-2 protein is entered into a software program that divides
the sequence into an appropriate number of overlapping fragments representing sub
assemblies of the gene. Suitable regulatory sequences are included in the sequence. Each
fragment is of appropriate length for gene synthesis and is designed to overlap the next
fragment by an appropriate number of base pairs such as, for example, about 40 bp. The
                                                 39

biological sequence information is transmitted by a transmitting unit to a receiving unit of a
system of the invention. As explained herein the gene can be assembled as a series of
overlapping oligonucleotides, and a sub-unit of the assembly unit assembles the
oligonucleotides into the final dsDNA molecule, or the dsDNA molecule can be assembled in
a different zone of the reaction container. Suitable regulatory sequences for expression are
included. The assembled gene is transferred to another sub-unit of the assembly unit or to
another zone of the reaction container and cell-free, in vitro transcription is performed, and
then to another sub-unit or another zone for translation of the DNA sequence, as explained
herein. A purification step is performed if desired. The harvested HER-2 may be formulated
and is utilized as an antigenic vaccine.
Example 6 - Synthesis of a DNA Vaccine
    [0095]      The invention also finds use in the production of a DNA vaccine. The DNA
sequence encoding for one or more HIV proteins is entered into a software program that
separates the DNA sequence into overlapping oligonucleotide fragments of appropriate
length, including DNA sequences of an appropriate plasmid (e.g., pGA2/JS2) with
appropriate regulatory sequences for expression.
    [0096]      The sequence is transmitted by a transmitting unit of the invention to a
receiving unit of a system of the invention. As described herein, the receiving unit provides
the sequence to an assembly unit of the invention and the assembly unit begins synthesis of
overlapping oligonucleotides, which will be assembled by a subunit of the assembly unit (or
by the same sub-unit in a different zone of the reaction container) into the full plasmid
vaccine. DNA may then be formulated and used as a DNA vaccine. When injected into the
patient the DNA vaccine will provide instructions to cells to make one or more HIV proteins,
which will then provoke an immune response. The technique is applicable to any DNA virus
that can be incorporated into a plasmid or other vector that can be injected into the patient to
be treated to provide immunity.
    [0097]      West Nile virus is another example of a pathogen that is susceptible to
prevention through the use of a DNA vaccine using the prM and E genes.
Example 7 - Synthesis of a Vaccine From Protein Sub-Units
    [0098]      Sub-unit vaccines offer an opportunity to present an antigen to the immune
system without the need to introduce whole viral particles. One example is the OPTAFLU@
(Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, GmbH, Marburg, Germany) vaccine for providing
                                                  40

immunity to the influenza virus. The present invention can be applied in the rapid production
of sub-unit vaccines.
     [0099]      The A/H3N2, A/H1N1 and B strains of the current flu virus are obtained from
the World Health Organization strain recommendations and are used in the preparation of a
trivalent vaccine using the viral surface antigens. The nucleic acid sequences are separated
into fragments as described above using an appropriate software program, with appropriate
regulatory sequences included. After synthesis of the nucleic acid, as described above, the
nucleic acid is transferred to a sub-unit of the assembly unit (or to another zone of the
reaction container) for in vitro translation. The vaccine can be produced in a sub-unit where
a cell culture is being maintained, which sub-unit has been previously prepared with an
established culture of MDCK cells (a canine kidney cell line) in appropriate media.
Example 8 - Synthesis of a Virus-Like Particle Vaccine
     [0100]      Non-infectious virus-like particles (VLPs) can be used to manufacture a
vaccine with the capacity to activate the immune system without the need to present an
assembled viral particle. A vaccine against human papilloma virus (HPV) can be
manufactured using the Li and/or L2 major capsid proteins, which self-assemble into virus
like particles that are effective as antigens. These VLPs can be assembled in yeast, insect
cells, mammalian cells, or bacteria. An example of this type of vaccine is GARDASIL@
(Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Whitehouse Station, NJ). Multiple HPV Li virus-like
particles can be included in a single vaccine for the broadest spectrum of immunity.
     [0101]      VLPs of a combination of HPV types selected from types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 35,
45, 52, and 58 are selected. The VLPs can be of Li or Li + L2 protein. The nucleic acid
sequences coding for these proteins are identified and separated into fragments as described
above using an appropriate software with appropriate regulatory sequences for expression in
the chosen cell type included. The nucleic acid sequence information is then transmitted by a
transmitting unit to a receiving unit of the invention located in a remote location. The
receiving unit provides the sequence information to the assembly unit of the system, and the
VLPs are synthesized. As described above, the DNA molecule can be assembled from
overlapping oligonucleotide fragments into one or more whole dsDNA molecules.
     [0102]      After synthesis, as described above, the DNA is transferred to a sub-unit of the
assembly unit (or to another zone of the reaction container) for in vitro translation in an
established cell culture being maintained on the system. The vaccine is produced by the cells
                                                   41

in that sub-unit. The translated proteins are provided to another sub-unit of the system where
they are pooled and self-assemble into VLPs that are useful as a vaccine against HPV.
Example 9 - Synthesis of a Complete Viral Vaccine
     [0103]     In another embodiment a whole virus vaccine can be synthesized in cell
culture using a reverse genetics technique. The influenza A genome is composed of eight
viral gene segments, including the HA and NA segments, which are important in immune
response to the virus. In one embodiment the assembly unit has a subunit maintaining, for
example, MDCK cells, 293T cells, or Vero cells for virus production (these components can
also be maintained in one or more additional zones of the reaction container). Plasmids
containing multiple transcription cassettes can be constructed containing the eight viral genes
and necessary regulatory sequences. The eight genes can be present on multiple plasmids or
a single plasmid if desired. The HA and NA segments are based upon sequences derived
from a virus that is presenting a local threat. Thus, in one embodiment the six non-varying
genes are prepared ahead of time and only the HA and NA genes are synthesized by the
system. The six non-varying genes can then be treated as reagents in the method. But in
another embodiment a subunit of the assembly unit synthesizes the plasmids based upon
information received from the receiving unit. In either embodiment, after synthesis the
plasmids are transfected into the cell culture being maintained in another subunit of the
assembly unit under conditions for high transfection efficiency. The transfected cells
produce whole virus particles which can be formulated as a live, attenuated vaccine, or as a
killed or further inactivated vaccine, as desired.
     [0104]     It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that varying substitutions
and modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein without departing from the
scope and spirit of the invention.
     [0105]     All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of
the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains.
     [0106]     The invention illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in the
absence of any element or elements, limitation or limitations which is not specifically
disclosed herein. Thus, for example, in each instance herein any of the terms "comprising",
"consisting essentially of' and "consisting of' may be replaced with either of the other two
terms. The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description
and not of limitation, and there is no intention that in the use of such terms and expressions of
                                                   42

excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof, but it is
recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed.
     [0107]      In addition, where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms
of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby
described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.
For example, if X is described as selected from the group consisting of bromine, chlorine, and
iodine, claims for X being bromine and claims for X being bromine and chlorine are fully
described.
     [0108]      Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated step or element or integer or group of steps or elements or integers
but not the exclusion of any other step or element or integer or group of elements or integers.
     [0109]      Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
which has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that
any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge
in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of
the appended claims.
     [0110]      Other embodiments are within the following claims.
                                                   43

Claims
   1. A system for receiving biological sequence information and activating the synthesis
       of a functional biological entity, comprising:
   a receiving unit for receiving a signal encoding biological sequence information
       transmitted from a transmitting unit, the transmitting unit present at a remote location
       from the receiving unit;
   an assembly unit connected to the receiving unit, for assembling the biological entity
       according to the biological sequence information, the assembly unit comprising or
       connected to vessels containing biological building block molecules and containing
       components for transporting reagents within the system and for executing steps in an
       automated method for synthesizing the functional biological entity;
   wherein the receiving unit receives the biological sequence information and provide it to
       the assembly unit.
   2. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmitting unit and the receiving unit are
       computers that are part of a computer network.
   3.  The system of claim 1 wherein the biological building blocks are dNTPs or
       nucleoside phosphoramidites.
   4. The system of claim 3 further comprising programming instructions for assembling
       the dNTPs or nucleoside phosphoramidites into a set of oligonucleotides according to
       the biological sequence information.
   5. The system of claim 3 further comprising programming instructions for assembling
       the set of oligonucleotides into a DNA molecule.
   6. The system of claim 3 wherein the functional biological entity is a DNA molecule.
   7. The system of claim 5 further comprising one or more vessels containing reagents for
       the transcription and/or translation of the functional DNA molecule into a biological
       product.
   8.  The system of claim 3 wherein the biological sequence information encodes a nucleic
       acid encoding for at least a portion of a virus particle or bacteriophage.
   9. The system of claim 6 wherein the assembly unit further converts the biological entity
       into a biological product.
   10. The system of claim 9 wherein the biological product is a virus particle or a portion of
       a virus particle.
                                                44

11. The system of claim 10 wherein the virus particle or portion of a virus particle
    comprises a protein antigen.
12. The system of claim 9 wherein the assembly unit further comprises or is connected to
    a vessel comprising a host cell.
13. The system of claim 1 further comprising programming instructions for performing
    steps of an automated method in distinct zones of a reaction container.
14. A method of synthesizing a functional biological entity comprising:
    receiving biological sequence information from a transmitting unit in a system for
synthesizing the functional biological entity, the system comprising:
        a receiving unit for receiving a signal encoding the biological sequence
    information transmitted from the transmitting unit, the receiving unit present at a
    remote location from the transmitting unit;
        an assembly unit connected to the receiving unit, for assembling the functional
    biological entity according to the biological sequence information, the assembly unit
    comprising or connected to vessels containing biological building block molecules
    and reagents for performing reactions to synthesize the functional biological entity
    from the biological building block molecules;
        wherein the assembly unit is configured to assemble the biological entity in
    accordance with the biological sequence information; and
        synthesizing the functional biological entity in an automated method.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the transmitting unit and the receiving unit are
    computers that are part of a computer network.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein the assembly unit is prepared for assembly of the
    functional biological entity prior to receiving the biological sequence information.
17. The method of claim 14 wherein the biological building blocks are dNTPs or
    nucleoside phosphoramidites.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the system further comprises programming
    instructions for assembling the dNTPs or nucleoside phosphoramidites into a set of
    oligonucleotides according to the biological sequence information.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the system further comprises programming
    instructions for assembling the set of oligonucleotides into a DNA molecule.
20. The method of claim 14 wherein the functional biological entity is a DNA molecule.
                                             45

21. The method of claim 19 wherein the system comprises one or more vessels and
    reagents for the transcription of the DNA molecule into an RNA molecule.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the system further comprises one or more vessels
    and reagents for the in vitro translation of the RNA molecule into a functional protein
    or peptide.
23. The method of claim 14 wherein the biological sequence information encodes for a
    nucleic acid molecule encoding for at least a portion of a virus particle.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein the functional protein or peptide is a viral protein or
    peptide.
25. The method of claim 20 wherein the DNA molecule is larger than 5 kb.
26. The method of claim 14 wherein the building block molecules are linked in an in vitro
    reaction to form building block polymers.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the building block molecules are nucleotides or
    nucleoside phosphoramidites, and the building block polymers are oligonucleotides.
28. The method of claim 27 further comprising transporting oligonucleotides from a first
    zone of a reaction container to a second zone of the reaction container.
29. The method of claim 27 further comprising performing one step of the method in a
    first zone of the reaction container and a second step of the method in a second zone
    of the reaction container.
30. The method of claim 27 wherein synthesizing the biological entity comprises a DNA
    assembly step.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein the steps of the method comprise multiple levels of
    biological assembly.
32. The method of claim 31 comprising a DNA assembly step and a RNA transcription
    step.
33. The method of claim 32 the DNA assembly step is performed in a first reaction zone
    of the reaction container and the RNA transcription step is performed in a second
    reaction zone of the reaction container.
34. The method of claim 32 further comprising a step comprising the in vivo production
    of viral particles in a third reaction zone of the reaction container.
35. An automated system for the synthesis of a functional biological entity according to
    provided biological sequence information, comprising:
                                              46

an assembly unit for assembling the biological entity according to the provided biological
    sequence information, the assembly unit comprising or connected to vessels
    containing biological building block molecules and containing components for
    transporting reagents within the system and for executing steps in an automated
    method for synthesizing the functional biological entity.
                                           47

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                    !      " #                    $         %
                          &    '% (             )*
                            +   % ,*             -
                              % (./
                    !     ,     0       +               0           & '     '
               1 !                   2
                    !            3 45% 6
<removed-apn>
                    !           2 42
                    !
               6 !          *            7 )        .    1
                   !
                   !       5
                   !      , 0
                  1!      8/ 9 7 )
              5     !
              *           *                 *    *          * **            ** *               * *                  *   *         **
              ***     *         * ***           *       **      *    *                     *       **      ***          **        *
                              * ***      * *** *                *       *                  *            * **                 *         4
                  *                  *      **       **      *                  *****          *                *       *    * **      5
                        ** *                    *                   **      *              *   * *         *        * *                1
              *         * *     *                        * *            * *** *                *       *    *           *         *    1
                          **    *       ** *            ** ***          *       *    **        *        ** **                *         5
                  * *                                *      **          *       *                                   *        **        54
              ** *      *           *                *      *    ** * **                 *             *       *                       5
                                         *                          *           *          *                    *   *
                                         *           *                          *          *       *           *             ** *
                  ***                        *       *       **                 **       *         **** *           *   **             6
                  *                     ***                  **                          *                      *            *    **   64
              * *       *               *       *        * ** *** *                        * ****          *                **    *    45
               *        **           ***         * *****                                                                *              :
                  *       *     ***         **           ***                                   *        *               ** **          :
               **           *                                   *           *   * ***          *           ** *         ***
                      *         *            *       *                  *                                           * *                4
                    *     *     *        **      *                   *                   *                  * *         *              5
                                                        *                                      *       *        *           * * *
                    *           *                    *           *              *        **    *           *    * *          *    **
               *                **          *                        *              ** *       *            * *         *    *         1
                                                                                     *

<removed-date>
                                        *      *    * *             * *     ** ****                      **      *                 *          14
                  *        **      *       * ** *                                                                                             5
                    !
                    !       5
                    !      , 0
                   1!      8/ 9 7 )
              5     !
                   **      *                   *            *       **      *       * ** * *             *        ** *
<removed-apn>
              *            *           *       *        **          **      *           **          ** *      *                   *
                                        *          ** *** *                 *                                        *   *        *           4
                           ***         *    *           *       * *         *       * *         *                    * *               *      5
                   **              * *         *    * * **              *   *           *           *         *      *     *          *       1
                       *           *        ****                *       *           * **                         *             *              1
                   **                      *                *   *           *        **             *    ***                  *        *      5
                                               ** *     *       * ***       *                                                          *      54
              *           *    *            *                                                           *         *      *** * *              5
              *       *        * *          ***                     *       * *             * *                      *
              *           **                                ***             *   **          *                                     *
                   ** **               ** *                 *           *           *               *                      *                  6
                           *       *                * *                 *       *           *       **                            *           64
              ** **                *        *               *   *       *   *       *       *                 *                   *           45
                      *        * * *           *        ***         **          *                   *        **                *      *       :
                      *       **       *    *               * ****          *       *               *        * **              **             :
              *****                **                           *               *    **             **               *
                  *    *           **      *            * *             *                       *   **        ***                             4
              * **                         *                *           *                           *                *   * * *            *   5
              **       * *              **          *   *           * *              *              **                   **
                          *        *        * *         * * *                   **                  **       *
                          * *                      *            *       * **                                                          *       1
                                           *    *                   *           *       *               *                **                   14
              *    *                   *    * *                                                                                               5
                    !      1
                    !       5
                    !      , 0
                   1!      8/ 9 7 )
              5 !          1
               *                   **                   *   *                   *    * *                 **      *                *    *
                                                                                        *

<removed-date>
                  *                          *                   ** **               *                          *                       **
                      *            *    ***                     *                        **         *           *   * ** * *            *    4
                              *        *     **         *           *       *                           *                       *            5
                                                        *            ***                    *                   **** *                       1
                          *        **        *                       *      * ** ** *                       *       *           *            1
                   *      ***               *       * *              **                 **               *      *                    *       5
<removed-apn>
                                            *           ***                 ***      *                   **         *           *            54
                   *                                *   **                  *                       *                   **                   5
                      * ***        ***       * *                 *      *                           *               *           **
                      *                             *                                   *                *              *       * **
              ***** *                  *    ****            **          *   **      * ***           * *             *   *       ****         6
              * *          *** ** * *                           *       *               *           *           * **    *       *** *        64
              *        * *         * ****           *   *                   *       ** * * *             *          *                        45
                          *    *        **** *          **                  **      ** *            *               *   *       *            :
              ***              *        **          * **                    *       *        *          **      *   * **        *** **       :
              *    *           * *          *               *           *       *        *          *    ***        *   **      *
              *                         * *                     *        * **       * *                 **              *       *            4
                                             * *                 *          *       * ***                           *   *            **      5
              **               * ** *            ** *            *          *                * *                    *   *** **
                  *    *       *   *                * *          *               *                  ***                 *
              *                         *    *                   **         *            *          *           *           *        *       1
              *                * **              *          *                    *           *                      * *             **       14
                                   * **      * *                                                                                             5
                    !      5
                    !       15
                    !      , 0
                   1!      8/ 9 7 )
              5       !    5
                               * *           **                             * **        * *             * **            *   **
                   ** * *                                    *       *                  *               * **            * *          *
                   *           *   **                           *                *      *                *              *       * **         4
              **          *    * *           * **               * **                         * *             * *        ** ** *          *   5
              * *         *                 **          *       *****                    * *        **       * **       *           *        1
              *                    **                           **                   **      *      *               *   *       * **         1
              *        *****       ***          *       **      *    *              ** *                     *              *       *    *   5
              **              *    *                    *       *               *    **             **          * *             *            54
                                                                                     *          1

<removed-date>
              *                    *                    * *              *                    *        *       *    *   *                    5
              *    * **            **                           *    *                * *                       *
                   *               **           **      *        * *             *            *        *    *
              *    *          *    *       **                        *           *                     *        *           * *              6
                  * *         *            *            **                                *        **                   *        *** *       64
                          ****     *                    *            * *      *            *            *               * *          *       45
<removed-apn>
              *                    *                                                  *            ***             *             ***         :
                  *    *       *   *                                 *               *** *                 ** *** **             * * *       :
                   *                       ***              *    *       * ** **           **      **          *    * ****       **
                           *               ** **                    * **      * **         *               **               *    ****        4
                       * **        * ***                     *       *            **          * *          *    **                   *       5
              *        *                   **      *    * *         **       * **         *** ** * * *                  * *      *
                      ****         *           *        *                             **                   *    * * **                   *
              **       *                        * * ****            *             *        **               * *             *                1
                  *    *       *   **          ** *                                                                                          15
                    !
                    !       14
                    !      , 0
                   1!      8/ 9 7 )
              5       !
              *            *                   *    *        * **            ** *                  * *                  *   *         **
              ***      *           * ***           *    **       *      *                     *        **      ***          **        *
                               * ***       * *** *               *       *                    *             * **                 *           4
                   *                   *       **       **      *             *****                *                *       *    * **        5
                          ** *                     *                 **      *                *    * *         *        * *                  1
              *           * *      *                        * *          * *** *                   *       *    *           *         *      1
                           **      *       ** *         ** ***           *    *       **           *        ** **                *           5
                   * *                                  *    **          *       *                                      *        **          54
              ** *        *            *                *    *      ** * **                *               *       *                         5
                                           *                         *        *               *                     *   *
                                           *            *                     *               *        *           *             ** *
                   ***                          *       *       **               **        *           **** *           *   **               6
                   *                       ***                  **                         *                        *            *    **     64
              * *         *                *       *        * ** *** *                        * ****           *                **    *      45
                  *       **           ***          * *****                                                                 *                :
                                                                                      *        5

<removed-date>
                  *        *       ***         **           ***                                    *        *                ** **           :
                  **          *                                  *           *    * ***           *           ** *           ***
                       *           *            *       *                *                                              * *                  4
                      *    *       *        **      *                   *                    *                  * *          *               5
                                                        *                                         *       *         *           * * *
                      *            *                    *           *            *           **    *          *     * *          *      **
<removed-apn>
                  *                **          *                        *            ** *         *             * *          *      *        1
                                        *      *    * *             * *      ** ****                    **      *                   *        14
                  *        **      *       * ** * *          *          ** *                      *             *           *       *        55
              **           **      *           **       ** *        *                 *                                      *          **
              *** *                *                                     *   *        *                         ***         *    *
              *       * *          *       * *      *                    * *                 *          **              * *         *    *
              * **            *    *           *        *           *    *       *           *              *           *        ****        4
                       *      *            * **                      *               *                  **                      *            65
                  *    *           *        **          *    ***                  *          *                                      ** *     4
              *        * ***       *                                                         *     *          *     *            *           4
                                                            *           *    *** * *               *      *         * *          ***         :
                           *       * *          * *                      *                         *          **                             :4
                  ***              *    **      *                                     *                 ** **               ** *             5
                  *           *            *            *                        *                              *       *                *
              *                *        *       *       **                            *            ** **                *        *
                  *    *      *    *       *    *                   *                 *                   *         * * *           *
              ***          **           *               *        **                  *       *            *       **        *    *           4
                  * ****           *       *            *        * **                **            *****                **                   15
                      *                *    **          **               *                            *     *           **      *            5
              * *              *                    *   **          ***                           * **                          *            5
                  *           *                         *                *   * * *               * **       * *              **          *
              *            * *              *           **                   **                               *         *        * *         4
              * * *                    **               **       *                                            * *                       *    5
                      *        * **                                                          *                                  *    *       6
                          *             *      *            *                **                   *     *                   *    * *         6
                  **       *                *      *        *                            *                  ** **                *           4
                          *                        **           *            *    ***                     *                          **      44
              *           *    * ** * *            *                    *        *       **        *          *         *                    :5
                                                                                         *

<removed-date>
                  *                       *                                                     *            ***                     *    1
                          **** *                                 *        **        *                        *       * ** ** *            1
                      *       *           *               *      ***               *        * *              **                  **       1
                   *      *                    *                                   *            ***                  ***      *           1 4
                   **         *           *               *                                 *   **                   *                    1 5
              *                   **                         * ***        ***       * *                  *    *                           11
<removed-apn>
              *               *           **                 *                              *                                    *        11
                   *              *       * **       ***** *                *      ****           **          *      **      * ***        15
              * *             *   *       ****       * *          *** ** * *                          *       *                  *        154
              *           * **    *       *** *      *        * *         * ****            *   *                    *       ** * *       1 5
              *    *          *                                  *    *        **** *           **                   **      ** *         1
              *               *   *       *          ***              *        **           * **                     *       *        *   1
                  **      *   * **        *** ** *        *           * *          *              *           *          *        *       16
              *    ***        *   **      *          *                         * *                    *          * **        * *          164
                  **              *       *                                         * *                  *           *       * ***        145
                              *   *            **    **               * ** *            ** *             *           *                *   1:
              *               *   *** **                 *    *       *   *                 * *          *                *               1:
              ***                 *                  *                         *    *                    **          *            *       5
              *           *           *        *     *                * **              *         *                       *           *   5 4
                              * *             **                          * **      * *           * **               *    **              5 5
                   ** * *                                 *       *                 *             * **               * *          *       5
                   *          *   **                         *                 *    *                *               *       * **         5
              **          *   * *             * **           * **                           * *          * *         ** ** *          *   51
              * *         *               **         *       *****                      * *     **       * **        *           *        514
              *                   **                         **                    **       *   *             *      *       * **         555
              *        *****      ***          *     **      *    *             ** *                     *                *      *    *   5
              **              *   *                  *       *              *      **           **        * *                *            5
              *                   *                  * *              *                     *     *       *      *   *                    5
              *    * **           **                         *    *                 * *                      *                            5 4
                   *              **           **    *        * *              *            *     *      *                                565
              *    *          *   *       **                      *            *                  *          *            * *             54
                  * *         *           *          **                                 *       **                   *        *** *       54
                          ****    *                  *            * *       *           *            *               * *          *       5:
              *                   *                                                 *           ***           *                  ***      5:4
                                                                                    *

<removed-date>
                  *    *       *   *                         *           *** *               ** *** **         * * *    5
                   *                   ***        *      *       * ** **        **      **       *   * ****    **
                           *           ** **             * **       * **        *            **            *   ****
                       * **        * ***             *       *        **         * *         *    **            *
              *        *               **    *   * *     **       * **         *** ** * * *            * *     *        4
                      ****         *    *        *                         **                *    * * **            *   15
<removed-apn>
              **       *                    * * ****     *            *         **            *                         14
                    !
                    !
                    !      , 0
                   1!      8/ 9 7 )
               5      !
              *            *
                                                                           *        6

