                                               Abstract
      The present invention discloses a inflatable oxygen bag comprising a inflatable oxygen bag,
wherein the side of the inflatable oxygen bag is provided with an oxygen bag hook and the
inflatable oxygen bag is fixedly connected with the oxygen bag hook; the front surface of the
inflatable oxygen bag is provided with a magnet strap and a strap fixing buckle is arranged at the
connecting location between the inflatable oxygen bag and the magnet strap; the magnet strap is
provided with a strong magnet inside and the front end of the front surface of the magnet strap close
to the strong magnet is provided with a strong magnet adsorption edge; the right side of the
inflatable oxygen bag is provided with an oxygen outlet. A layer of strap is arranged on the surface
of the traditional oxygen bag and the strap is provided with a strong magnet inside, so that doctors
or nurses do not need to look for a hook for hanging when using oxygen bags in an ambulance, the
oxygen bag can be directly adsorbed inside the ambulance by the strong magnet inside the strap,
and it is easy to do such operation and just to directly remove the oxygen bag when taking it down
                                                    6

    2   3 4
                     5
      7            6
         Fig. 1
1 89              7
  6
         Fig. 2
                7

                                             Specification
                                    AN INFLATABLE OXYGEN BAG
Technical Field
      The invention relates to the technical field of medical instruments, in particular to an inflatable
oxygen bag.
Background
      Medical instrument industry, involving a variety of industries such as medicine, machinery,
electronics and plastics, is a multi-disciplinary, knowledge-intensive and capital-intensive high-tech
industry. The high-tech medical          equipment,    basically characterized    by digitalization   and
computerization, is an essence of multi-disciplinaiy, cross-cutting modern high-tech and has
products with high technical contents and profits. Therefore, it is the key point of the mutual
competition among scientific and technological powers and international large companies, having a
higher barrier to enter into. Even in the sub-industry with total lower gross margin, investment,
there emerge many more high-tech products successively, which hence give birth to some of the
more profitable businesses. Therefore, the overall industry trend is high investment with high yield.
      However, there are defects of oxygen bag used for medical equipment existing when in use,
that is to say, when the oxygen bag is used to transfuse the oxygen to patients, it is not easy for the
oxygen bag to be hung or to be carried, thus being inconvenient to be used.
Content of Invention
      The purpose of the present invention is to provide an inflatable oxygen bag for solving the
problem in above background i.e. there are defects of traditional oxygen bag used for medical
equipment existing when in use, that is to say, when the oxygen bag is used to transfuse the oxygen
to patients, it is not easy for the oxygen bag to be hung or to be carried, thus being inconvenient to
be used.
      To achieve the above-mentioned purpose, the present invention provides following technical
solution: an inflatable oxygen bag which comprises an inflatable oxygen bag, wherein the side of
the inflatable oxygen bag is provided with an oxygen bag hook and the inflatable oxygen bag is
fixedly connected with the oxygen bag hook; the front surface of the inflatable oxygen bag is
provided with a magnet strap and a strap fixing buckle is arranged at the connecting location
between the inflatable oxygen bag and the magnet strap; the magnet strap is provided with a strong
magnet inside and the front end of the front surface of the magnet strap close to the strong magnet is
provided with a strong magnet adsorption edge; the right side of the inflatable oxygen bag is
provided with an oxygen outlet and the left side is provided with an oxygen inlet;; an oxygen bag
edge seal is arranged around the outside of the inflatable oxygen bag.
      Preferably, the strong magnet is provided with four, and the four strong magnets are all
                                                     I

                                             Specification
mounted inside the magnet strap.
     Preferably, the corresponding outer sides of the four strong magnets are all provided with
magnet limit protrusions.
     Preferably, the oxygen bag hook is provided with four, and the four oxygen bag hooks are
mounted at the upper and lower side of the inflatable oxygen bag respectively.
     Preferably, the inflatable oxygen bag is fixedly connected with the magnet strap by the strap
fixing buckle
     Preferably, the strong magnet is mounted inside the magnet strap, and the strong magnet
adsorption edge on the surface of the strong magnet is exposed on the surface of the magnet strap.
     Preferably, the strong magnet is a cuboid structure.
     Preferably, the oxygen outlet is connected with an oxygen inlet by an air guide tube.
     Compared with the prior art, the beneficial effects of the present invention are: to arrange a
layer of strap on the surface of the traditional oxygen bag and the strap is provided with a strong
magnet inside, so that there is no needs for doctors or nurses to search for a hook for hanging the
oxygen bag, which can be directly adsorbed inside the ambulance by the strong magnet inside the
strap, when using oxygen bag in an ambulance. Thus such operation of the presented oxygen bag is
easy to be done and just to take it down directly when removing it.
Brief Description of the Drawings
     Fig. I is a structure diagram of the invention;
     Fig. 2 is a section view of the strap of the invention.
     In figures: I-strap fixing buckle, 2-inflatable oxygen bag, 3-oxygen bag edge seal, 4-oxygen
bag hook, 5-oxygen outlet, 6-strong magnet adsorption edge, 7-magnet strap, 8-strong magnet,
9-magnet limit protrusion.
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
     In order to enable those skilled in the art to better understand the technical solutions in the
present invention, the technical solution sin the embodiments of the present invention are clearly
and completely described in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings.
Apparently, the described embodiments are only a part but not all of the embodiments of the present
invention.   All other embodiments obtained by an ordinary skilled person in the art based on the
embodiment of the present application without creative efforts shall fall within the protection scope
of the present invention.
     With reference to Fig. 1 and 2, the present invention provides a technical solution: an inflatable
oxygen bag comprising an inflatable oxygen bag 2; wherein the side of the inflatable oxygen bag 2
is provided with an oxygen bag hook 4 and the inflatable oxygen bag 2 is fixedly connected with
                                                    2

                                            Specification
the oxygen bag hook 4; the fi-ont surface of the inflatable oxygen bag 2 is provided with a magnet
strap 7 and a strap fixing buckle I is arranged at the connecting location between the inflatable
oxygen bag 2 and the magnet strap 7; the magnet strap 7 is provided with a strong magnet 8 inside
and the front end of the front surface of the magnet strap 7 close to the strong magnet 8 is provided
with a strong magnet adsorption edge 6; the right side of the inflatable oxygen bag 2 is provided
with an oxygen outlet 5 and the left side of the inflatable oxygen bag 2 is provided with an oxygen
inlet; the outer side inside the magnet strap 7 close to the strong magnet 8 is provided with a magnet
limit protrusion 9; an oxygen bag edge seal 3 is arranged around the outside of the inflatable oxygen
bag 2.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the strong magnet 8 is provided with four, and the four strong
magnets 8 are all mounted inside the magnet strap 7.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the corresponding outer sides of the four strong magnets 8 are
all provided with magnet limit protrusions 9.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the oxygen bag hook 4 is provided with four, and the four
oxygen bag hooks 4 are mounted at the upper and lower side of the inflatable oxygen bag 2
respectively.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the inflatable oxygen bag 2 is fixedly connected with the
magnet strap 7 by the strap fixing buckle 1.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the strong magnet 8 is mounted inside the magnet strap 7, and
strong magnet adsorption edge 6 arranged on the strong magnet 8 is exposed on the surface of the
magnet strap 7.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the strong magnet 8 is a cuboid structure.
      In this embodiment, preferably, the oxygen outlet 5 is connected with an oxygen inlet by an air
guide tube.
      The working principle and operation flow of the present invention are: after the present
invention is assembled, when a nurse in ambulance is to use an oxygen bag, the nurse will not have
to search for a hook to hang the inflatable oxygen bag 2 by using the oxygen bag hook 4, but to
have the side with magnet strap 7 of the inflatable oxygen bag 2 adsorbed onto the inner wall of the
ambulance or a stretcher, which can be adsorbed fixedly through the strong magnet 8;
      during adsorption process, since the strong magnet adsorption edge 6 i.e. the side of the strong
magnet 8 exposes from the surface of the magnet strap 7, the hook can be adsorbed fixedly via the
magnet strap 6, which facilitates operation.
      To those skilled in the art, the invention is not limited to the details of the above-described
exemplary embodiment, but without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the
                                                    3

                                           Specification
present invention, the present invention can be realized in other specific forms. Therefore, no matter
from what point of view, the embodiments should be considered exemplary, and not limiting. The
scope of the invention is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description,
and the appended claims therefore intend to include all changes which come within the meaning
and range of equivalents thereof within the protection of the application.
                                                  4

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
      1. An inflatable oxygen bag comprising an inflatable oxygen bag, characterized in that: the side
of the inflatable oxygen bag is provided with an oxygen bag hook and the inflatable oxygen bag       is
fixedly connected with the oxygen bag hook; the front surface of the inflatable oxygen bag is
provided with a magnet strap and a strap fixing buckle        is arranged at the connecting location
between the inflatable oxygen bag      and the magnet strap; the magnet strap is provided with a
strong magnet inside and the front end of the front surface of the magnet strap close to the strong
magnet is provided with a strong magnet adsorption edge; the right side of the inflatable oxygen
bag    is provided with an oxygen outlet        and the left side of the inflatable oxygen bag       is
provided with an oxygen inlet; the oxygen outlet is connected with the oxygen inlet by an air guide
tube, an oxygen bag edge seal is arranged around the outside of the inflatable oxygen bag.
     2. The inflatable oxygen bag according to Claim 1, characterized in that: the strong magnet is
provided with four ones, and the four strong magnets are all mounted inside the magnet strap.
      3. The inflatable oxygen bag according to Claim 1, characterized in that: the corresponding
outer sides of the four strong magnets are all provided with magnet limit protrusions.
                                                   5

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271D>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

