ABSTRACT
The invention provides a multi-component (modular) percutaneous valve
device that includes a valve module having valve leaflets and a valve
frame. The valve frame includes one or more, for example two, ring
members and a plurality of masts. Also provided is a valve frame having
specially designed pivot points at the connection between masts and first
and second ring members to assist folding the valve module and
minimizing delivery diameter.     The valve frame may also include wire
guides to facilitate combining the valve module with a support module.
The masts or a ring of the valve frame may also include locking members,
such as shafts for closing the valve module and securing the valve module
to the support module.       The support module includes corresponding
locking members, such as spears that align with the shafts on the valve
module for assembly and locking the valve module to the support module.

                                                 1
                System and Method for Assembling a Folded Percutaneous Valve
  [001]           This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. provisional application
  serial no. 61/688,470, filed May 15, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference in
  its entirety.
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
  [002]           The present invention relates to a system and method for deploying and
  assembling a modular percutaneous valve device.              In particular, the modular valve
  device includes novel features to facilitate folding and assembly of the valve module,
  and the system includes novel features for deployment, combining and securing the
  device modules together.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
  [003]           The human body contains a wide variety of natural valves, such as, for
  example, heart valves, esophageal and stomach valves, intestinal valves, and valves
  within the lymphatic system. Natural valves can degenerate for a variety of reasons,
5 such as disease, age, and the like. A malfunctioning valve fails to maintain the bodily
5 fluid flow in a single direction with minimal pressure loss.                An example of a
7 malfunctioning valve is a heart valve that may be either stenotic, i.e., the leaflets of the
  valve do not open fully, or regurgitant, i.e., the leaflets of the valve do not close properly.
  It is desirable to restore valve function to regain the proper functioning of the organ with
  which the valve is associated. For example, proper valve function in the heart ensures
  that blood flow is maintained in a single direction through a valve with minimal pressure
  loss, so that blood circulation and pressure can be maintained.               Similarly, proper

                                              2
  esophageal valve function ensures that acidic gastric secretions do not irritate or
  permanently damage the esophageal lining.
  [004]          Several percutaneous prosthetic valve systems have been described.
  One example described in Andersen, et. al. (U.S. Patent No. 5,411,552) comprises an
  expandable stent and a collapsible valve which is mounted onto the stent prior to
  deployment. The collapsible valve may be a biological valve or it may be made of
  synthetic material.   The Anderson prosthetic valve is delivered and deployed using a
  balloon catheter which balloon is used to expand the valve-stent prosthesis to its final
  size. See also, U.S. Patent No. 6,168,614 (Andersen, et al.) entitled "Valve Prosthesis
  for Implantation in the Body" and U.S. Patent No. 5,840,081 (Andersen, et al.) entitled
  "System and Method for Implanting Cardiac Valves."
  [005]          Spenser, et. al. (U.S. Patent No. 6,893,460) describe another prosthetic
  valve device comprising a valve structure made of biological or synthetic material and a
  support stent.    The Spenser prosthetic valve is a crimpable leafed-valve assembly
  consisting of a conduit having an inlet and an outlet, made of pliant material arranged to
5 present collapsible walls at the outlet. The valve assembly is affixed to the support
7 stent prior to deployment. The complete valve device is deployed at a target location
  within the body duct using a deploying means, such as a balloon catheter or a similar
  device.
  [006]          Percutaneous implantation of prosthetic valves is safer, cheaper, and
  provides shorter patient recovery time than standard surgical procedures.        However,
  current artificial percutaneous prosthetic valves have the disadvantage of being

                                                   3
  extremely bulky, even when compressed for delivery. The problem with this bulkiness
  is that it requires the delivery catheter to have a rather large diameter. Large catheters
  generally are not suitable for percutaneous procedures and require cut-down surgical
  procedures and/or sophisticated and difficult puncture-closure techniques.               The
  bulkiness and large diameter of current valve devices and delivery systems combined
  with the anatomy through which the devices must be delivered also can make delivery
  into the lumen problematic from the point of view of success rate, accuracy of
  deployment, and risk of complications. Specifically, delivery complications may arise
  due to the shape of the lumen, for example, the significant natural curve of the aortic
  arch and/or a tortuous iliac/femoral artery through which the catheter is introduced.
  Further, a catheter of such diameter tends to be less flexible than a smaller diameter
  catheter, especially when loaded with a bulky, inflexible device.                Additionally,
  manipulating such a loaded catheter through a narrow vessel, and in particular a curved
  vessel, substantially raises the potential for damage to that vessel wall, bleeding, and
  other vascular complications, which are in turn related to higher rates of morbidity and
  mortality.
7 [007]           Still further, the valve leaflet material makes up 80% of the percutaneous
  prosthetic valve delivery diameter. Current efforts to minimize the bulk of the valve
  leaflet material include using thinner valve material or tightly crimping the valve leaflets.
  Both of these procedures adversely impact the durability of the valve leaflets, the latter
  does so by damaging the valve material.
  [008]           Therefore, a need exists to facilitate the delivery of artificial valves and
  also to increase the safety of the procedure. A valve device having a smaller delivery

                                                4
  diameter than pre-assembled percutaneous valve devices and that can be delivered
  through a vessel without incurring further damage to the wall of the body lumen is highly
  desirable.    It is also desirable to have a low profile (small delivery diameter)
  percutaneous prosthetic valve device that provides the type of leaflet durability available
  in surgical prosthetic valve devices.
  [009]          US Published Patent Application No. 2010/0185275A1,              incorporated
  herein by reference in its entirety, describes a modular (multi-component) percutaneous
  valve device that facilitates delivery of the prosthetic valve by providing the valve device
  as deliverable modules that may be assembled into a working configuration at or near
  the site of implantation in the blood vessel.        US Published Patent Application No.
  2010/0185275A1 also describes various means for locking together the assembled
  device modules.
  [010]          US Published Patent Application No. 2011/0172784A1,              incorporated
  herein by reference in its entirety, describes a modular (multi-component) percutaneous
  valve device having a self-assembly member that facilitates assembly of the modular
5 prosthetic valve in the       blood vessel.       US   Published   Patent Application    No.
7 2011/0172784A1       also   describes   valve    modules    that  may    assume    a  shape
  (unassembled shape) different from their functional valve shape that are particularly
  advantageous for delivery in that the unassembled shape permits the valve module to
  be folded in a manner that minimizes the delivery diameter of the device, thereby
  minimizing complications and increasing the safety of the valve replacement procedure.

                                                5
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [011]          The present invention provides an improved modular percutaneous valve
  device and system, having components that simplify the assembly of the device
  modules.      In particular, a system and method for deploying and assembling a
  percutaneous modular valve device is provided.          The multi-component, or modular,
  percutaneous valve device and system comprises a plurality of device modules for
  delivery. In one embodiment, the plurality of device modules includes a valve module
  and a support module, which are designed to be combined into the assembled valve
  device in the body. From a functional perspective, the valve module is the portion of the
  valve device having the leaflets and once assembled it provides a conduit having an
  inlet end and an outlet end. The support module provides the anchor, or backbone, of
  the device, housing the valve module and holding the valve module in place within the
  body lumen.      In percutaneous valve replacement procedures the native valve leaflets
  often are not removed prior to implantation of the prosthetic valve; thus the support
  module also serves to outwardly displace the native valve leaflets to create a larger
  valve orifice, in particular when the prosthetic valve is used to treat aortic stenosis.
7 [012]          The valve module of the invention is provided with a valve frame having
  one or more ring members, and a plurality of masts connected thereto. The one or
  more ring members are discontinuous, each having a first end and a second end,
  thereby permitting the ring members to be opened for folding. This provides a valve
  module having an unassembled, folded delivery configuration, in which the one or more
  open ring members and the masts are substantially collinear, and the valve leaflets
  folded   therewith.      The   terms   collinear and     substantially collinear are     used

                                                  6
  interchangeably herein, and are meant to convey extending in the same general
  direction and/or linearly adjacent. Thus, for example, in the delivery configuration, the
  "folded" masts lie approximately parallel to the one or more ring members.             In one
  embodiment, one of the masts may be a split mast, the first half of which is located at
  the first end of the ring member(s) and the second half is located at the second end of
  the ring member(s).
  [013]          The valve module also has a working configuration in which the ends of
  the ring member(s) are approximate (i.e., close together, next to each other) so as to
  form a ring, and the masts are oriented along the longitudinal axis of the valve,
  generally upright relative to the ring member(s).        The valve leaflets are attached to a
  ring member, for example a ring member at the base of the valve module, and in the
  embodiment having a first and second ring member the valve leaflets may be supported
  by the second ring member.          Alternatively, or in addition, the valve leaflets may be
  supported by one or more of the plurality of masts.
  [014]          The support module has a compressed delivery configuration and an
5 expanded working configuration, into which the valve module may be inserted and
7 attached. In one embodiment, the support module has a radially compressed delivery
  configuration and is radially expandable to the working configuration.
  [015]          The valve module and support module may further include novel
  structures that collectively facilitate guiding the valve module to the support module for
  combination therewith, closing the valve module to form a conduit, and locking the valve
  module to the support module. These novel features may include shafts and spears,

                                                7
  wire guides, and assembly wires. The spears may include eyelets for cooperative use
  with the wire guides to guide the valve along assembly wires into the support module.
  Elements such as wire guides, eyelets and assembly wires are also referred to herein
  as "guiding members." The shafts and spears function as locking members to lock the
  valve module to the support module.        Other types of locking members also may be
  used, for example, snaps or other geometric locking mechanisms. The relative position
  of the locking members may differ depending on the embodiment.           For example, the
  shafts may be located on a component of the valve frame and the spears may be
  located on the support module. Alternatively, the spears may be located on the valve
  frame and the shafts may be located on the support module.
  [016]         In one embodiment in which the valve frame includes a first and second
  ring member with the plurality of masts disposed therebetween, the connections
  between the masts and ring members may be novel pivot point connections. The pivot
  point connections facilitate folding of the valve frame while minimizing physical strain on
  the connections. In another embodiment the valve frame comprises a first ring member
5 at the base with the plurality of masts connected thereto via novel pivot point
7 connections.
  [017]         The system of the invention includes the above-described modular valve
  device, and a delivery system that includes a catheter and assembly wires. In certain
  embodiments, the delivery system further comprises pushers that may be advanced
  over the assembly wires to slide the valve module over the assembly wires into the
  support module, and may further be used to lock the locking members. In embodiments
  that include wire guides, each assembly wire may be threaded through wire guides to

                                              8
  minimize tangling of the assembly wires. In embodiments in which the support module
  includes spears having eyelets, the assembly wires may additionally be threaded
  through the eyelets, to facilitate disengagement of the wire from the valve device once
  implanted by pulling on one end of the wire. Alternatively, the assembly wire may be
  threaded through a portion of the valve frame and/or the support module.
  [018]         Also provided is a method of assembling the modular percutaneous valve
  device using the novel components of the system. The valve module is advanced over
  assembly wires and the wire guides are useful for orienting and assembling the valve
  module, and combining the valve module with the expanded support module.          In one
  embodiment, the valve module may include shafts (tubular or ring structures) and the
  support module may include spears, specialized structures for connecting with the
  shafts, attached at positions around the circumference of the support module that
  correspond to the positions of the shafts. The shafts may be located, for example, on
  the masts and/or on a ring member. When located on masts of the valve frame, the
  shafts may be located on the outer surface or the inner surface of the masts, or some
5 combination thereof. In another embodiment, the shafts may be located on the support
7 module and the spears may be located on the valve module. In either embodiment, the
  shafts may be eased over the spears and may lock in place. Where a split mast is
  used, the split mast may include a pair of shafts - one on each half of the split mast
  which, in combination with a spear on the support module, simultaneously close the ring
  members to effect a working configuration valve module and effect locking the valve
  module to the support module.

                                                9
  [019]          Among the advantages of the modular percutaneous valve of the present
  invention are a valve module that easily folds for delivery, readily transforms to a near
  assembled configuration upon deployment from a delivery device, and provides support
  for the valve leaflets. Advantages of the system of the invention include a design that
  facilitates unfolding and assembly of the valve module into the working configuration,
  aligning the valve module with the support module for combining the device modules,
  and securing the device modules to each other. Another advantage of the present
  invention is that because the valve device is modular, the properties of the modules
  may be optimized independently, because the valve module and support module serve
  different functions - the valve module modulating blood flow and the support module
  anchoring the valve in the valve annulus and pinning back the native valve leaflets;
  separately deploying the modules and combining them in situ lessens the design trade
  offs that are necessary when the valve device is a single unit.
  [020]          Other advantages that may be achieved by the present invention include
  reducing the bulkiness of the valve for delivery while maintaining durability of the valve
5 leaflets, and increasing the flexibility of the delivery device. Also, the prosthetic valve
7 device is minimally invasive and the method of percutaneous delivery reduces traumatic
  damage and minimizes procedure complications, and allows delivery to patients with
  smaller vessels, with highly diseased, tortuous or occluded vessels, and reduces the
  risk of vascular complications.     Use of the apparatus, system and methods of the
  invention thereby may increase the safety of the procedure and expand both the
  number of medical facilities capable of performing percutaneous valve replacement
  procedures and the number of patients who can receive the treatment.

                                               10
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [021]          FIG. 1 is a schematic drawing of a photograph illustrating a double ring
  embodiment of the valve module of the invention.
  [022]          FIG. 2 schematically illustrates a valve frame in         its unassembled
  substantially flat configuration, showing one embodiment of pivot points.
  [023]          FIGS. 3A-B illustrate another embodiment of a valve frame having
  horseshoe pivot points.        FIG. 3A schematically illustrates the valve frame in its
  unassembled substantially flat configuration; FIG. 3B schematically depicts how a ring
  member and mast are connected at the horseshoe pivot point of the valve frame
  embodiment of FIG. 3A.
  [024]          FIGS. 4A-B are photographs illustrating the embodiment of FIG 3A valve
  frame in its working configuration.     FIG. 4A illustrates a top view of the valve frame
  embodiment of FIG. 3A; FIG. 4B illustrates a side view of the valve frame embodiment
  of FIG. 3A.
5 [025]          FIG. 5 is a photograph illustrating one way an embodiment of the double
5 ring valve module may be folded according to the invention for loading into a delivery
7 catheter.
  [026]          FIG. 6A is a       schematic drawing     of a photograph     illustrating an
  embodiment of the double ring valve module folded according to the invention and
  loaded in a delivery catheter.

                                               11
  [027]          FIG. 6B   is a     schematic drawing    of a photograph      illustrating an
  embodiment of the double ring valve module during deployment from a catheter
  according to the invention.
  [028]          FIGS. 7A-E are photographs illustrating a method of deploying and
  assembling an embodiment of the modular valve device according to the invention.
  [029]          FIGS. 8A-B illustrate an embodiment of how the valve module and support
  module may be connected. FIG. 8A is a schematic drawing of a photograph depicting
  how a shaft on a valve module may connect to a spear having a deltoid or "kite"
  spearhead on a support module; FIG. 8B illustrates the same schematically.
  [030]          FIGS. 9A-B illustrate an embodiment of novel locking members. FIG. 9A
  is a schematic drawing of a photograph illustrating a wire guide and first and second
  shafts on a valve module, and an assembly wire threaded through these structures.
  FIG. 9B schematically illustrates how the first and second shafts of FIG. 9A may
  connect to a spear of a support module.
5 [031]          FIGS. 10A-B    illustrate an   embodiment of novel      locking    members.
5 FIG. 10A is a schematic drawing of a photograph illustrating illustrates how a ring shaft
7 on a valve module may connect to a hybrid spear on a support module; FIG. 10B is an
  inset depicting the ring shaft locked on the hybrid spear.
  [032]          FIGS. 11 A-C.       FIG. 11A schematically illustrates the hybrid spear;
  FIG. 11 B schematically illustrates a ring shaft being introduced onto the hybrid spear;
  FIG. 11C schematically illustrates the ring shaft locked on the hybrid spear.

                                             12
  [033]         FIGS. 12A-B schematically illustrate an embodiment of a single groove
  hybrid spear. FIG. 12A shows the embodiment from front view coupled with a mast via
  ring shafts; FIG. 12B is a cut-away of the same view to reveal the spear and ring
  structures.
  [034]         FIGS. 13A-B schematically illustrate an embodiment of a single groove
  hybrid spear. FIG. 13A shows the embodiment from front view coupled with a split mast
  via shaft and ring shaft; FIG. 13B is a cut-away of the same view to reveal the spear,
  shaft and ring shaft structures.
  [035]         FIG. 14A is a schematic drawing of a photograph of an exemplary valve
  frame for a valve module in accordance with the invention.
  [036]         FIG. 14B is a schematic drawing of a photograph of an exemplary support
  module in accordance with the invention.
  [037]         FIG. 14C is a schematic drawing of a photograph of another exemplary
  support module in accordance with the invention.
5 [038]         FIG. 14D is a schematic drawing of a photograph showing details of an
5 embodiment of hybrid spear on an exemplary support module in accordance with the
7 invention.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
  [039]         The present invention provides an implantable modular percutaneous
  prosthetic valve device, system and method for deploying and assembling implantable

                                                13
  percutaneous modular valve devices, for example percutaneous modular heart valve
  devices.
  [040]         The percutaneous valve device of the invention comprises a plurality of
  device modules for delivery and assembly in a body lumen, for example a blood vessel.
  The device modules may be delivered percutaneously to a desired location in the body,
  for example near the site of valve implantation or at the site of valve implantation, where
  they may be deployed from the delivery device and assembled to form a working valve
  device. The plurality of device modules may include a support module and a valve
  module.     The support module has a compressed delivery configuration and an
  expanded working configuration. The valve module comprises the valve leaflets of the
  valve device and a valve frame; the valve leaflets may be attached to components of
  the valve frame, which include one or more ring members and a plurality of masts
  connected thereto.
  [041]         The valve module has an unassembled open configuration, in which the
  one or more ring members have a substantially linear, i.e., generally straight,
5 configuration and the valve leaflets lie substantially flat.       One skilled in the art
7 understands that valve leaflets have a shape, e.g., including commissures, and
  therefore the term "substantially flat" may include some undulations. This unassembled
  open configuration permits folding, e.g., rolling, of the valve module predominantly
  "lengthwise" into a folded delivery configuration, and from which the valve module may
  be assembled into a working configuration. In the unassembled open configuration, the
  valve module has a width along its longitudinal axis, i.e., apex to base, and a length
  along the linear circumferential axis, i.e., along an axis defined between the first end of

                                             14
the one or more ring members and the second end of the one or more ring members (or
in embodiments having a split mast, between the first mast half and the second mast
half). Therefore, "lengthwise" is understood by one having ordinary skill in the art to
mean along the length, e.g., from one split mast half to the second split mast.       In its
folded configuration, the plurality of masts may be folded toward the one or more ring
members so as to be substantially collinear with the substantially linear ring members.
[042]          The "lengthwise" folding of the valve module facilitates a delivery
configuration having a minimal diameter and minimizes crimping damage to the leaflets,
thereby improving durability.     In particular, folding the valve module predominantly
lengthwise distributes the bulk of the leaflet material over a greater axial distance than
folding or compressing radially, so that there is less valve material at any one point in
the delivery catheter.     As a result, less crimping force is required on the leaflets,
compared to radial crimping of currently marketed devices, to achieve a small delivery
diameter. The resultant advantage is less crimping damage to the leaflet material, and
thus improved durability. Additionally, it isn't necessary to use a thinner valve material
to achieve the small delivery profile. One example of such advantageous predominantly
lengthwise folding comprises rolling the open unassembled valve module spirally, for
example around a guide wire. Another example is scrunching the valve material as the
plurality of masts are folded toward the one or more ring members.
[043]          In some embodiments, specialized connections between the masts and
ring members - pivot points - may facilitate the folding.        When assembled into a
working configuration, the valve module provides a conduit having an inlet end and an
outlet end. The valve frame may include, in its working configuration, one or more ring

                                               15
  members with ends approximated and a plurality of masts oriented along the
  longitudinal axis of the valve, thereby - with the valve leaflets - forming a conduit. The
  valve leaflets may be supported by one or more of the ring member(s) and masts.
  [044]           The valve frame may be manufactured from any of a variety of materials,
  such as, for example, a shape-memory alloy, cobalt chromium, a material having
  superelastic properties, or a polymeric deformable plastic.         In one embodiment, the
  valve frame comprises a shape-memory metal or alloy, pre-conditioned to revert to a
  preset configuration. In one aspect of this embodiment, the valve frame is made from a
  shape-memory alloy.         The preset configuration may be referred to as a first
  configuration (e.g., a relaxed state) and the delivery configuration may be referred to as
  a second configuration (e.g., an unrelaxed, or restrained state). The valve frame may
  be triggered to revert to the preset configuration by, for example, a change in
  temperature (heating or cooling), an electrical current, or if it has superelastic properties
  it may be released from a geometric restriction, or it may be mechanically deformed or
  "triggered" by balloon expansion, which, for example, may trigger conversion of, for
5 example, NiTi to a different phase. The shape memory alloy allows the valve frame to
7 be thermo-mechanically preconditioned into a preselected shape (pre-set configuration),
  so that it in one embodiment it may be delivered in, for example, a relatively straight, but
  axially flexible second configuration and then be triggered to revert to the thermo
  mechanically preset first configuration. In another embodiment, the delivery device, or a
  lumen within the delivery device, may restrain the valve frame in a delivery
  configuration, and the trigger may be a release from the restraint.

                                               16
  [045]           As used herein, "preset configuration" or "first configuration" with respect
  to valve frame is not limited to shape-memory structures. By "preset configuration" and
  "first configuration" is meant the pre-selected shape that the valve frame assumes or
  reverts to after deployment from the delivery device. Where the valve frame is reverted
  to its first configuration, for example by a temperature step, the temperature step may
  be effected by changing the temperature in the environment around the valve frame, for
  example by hot fluid, cool fluid, body heat, or passing electrical current through a wire to
  generate resistive heat. Any shape memory alloy may be used to make the shape
  memory valve frame.        In specific embodiments, the shape memory alloy used is NiTi
  (i.e., NiTinol), CuZnAI, CuAINi, or a mixture thereof (see, e.g.,           SHAPE   MEMORY
  MATERIALS,    edited by Otsuka and Wayman, Cambridge University Press; October 1999
  and SHAPE MEMORY ALLOYS, edited by Youyi and Otsuka, International Academic
  Publishers, June 1998).
  [046]           The valve leaflet material may be manufactured from suitable materials,
  such as polymers, metals or biological material, such as mammalian pericardium
5 derived from, for example, bovine, porcine or equine tissue. The selection of material,
7 structure and method of manufacturing preferably is made to optimize the function, the
  durability and the biocompatibility of the valve. The valve leaflets may be attached to
  the valve frame by means known in the art, for example by sewing, gluing, bonding, or
  by the method described hereinbelow.
  [047]           The support module preferably is expandable, so that it may be delivered
  compressed (unexpanded), and then expanded for implantation and assembly of the
  valve device. The support module may be manufactured from a biocompatible material

                                              17
  that is sufficiently durable that the structure can support the valve component while
  maintaining the device's position in the lumen.     The support module material also is
  compatible with delivery of the support module in a compressed state and expansion of
  the compressed support module upon deployment in the lumen.             For example, the
  support module may be manufactured from a variety of materials including a shape
  memory alloy, cobalt chromium, a material having superelastic properties, or a
  polymeric deformable plastic. In one embodiment of the present invention, the support
  module is manufactured from stainless steel or a shape memory alloy, such as, for
  example, Nitinol. In another embodiment, it may be made of an amorphous metal alloy
  of suitable atomic composition, as are known in the art. Other further embodiments of
  the support module may be manufactured from similar biocompatible materials known in
  the art. One non-limiting example of an appropriate support module is a mesh tube. In
  this example, the support module comprises a hollow, generally cylindrical (annular)
  member having a side surface comprising a mesh having a plurality of apertures or
  cells. The support module possesses sufficient radial strength to maintain its position at
  the implantation site once the support module is deployed, to outwardly displace native
7 valve leaflets, and to create a larger valve orifice than that of a diseased valve to be
  replaced.     The support module, may be self-expanding or balloon-expandable.
  Examples of support modules for use in the invention are known in the art.
  [048]          The support module may include locking members, such as those
  described herein, to secure the valve module within the support module. The support
  module may further include hooks, ribs, or other anchoring devices to facilitate the
  anchoring of the assembled valve device to the native anatomy, e.g., the valve annulus.

                                              18
  The connection of the support module to the valve annulus and/or of the valve module
  to the support module may be designed to provide adjustment to the relative positions
  of the structures.
  [049]          The devices and methods of the invention are particularly adapted for use
  in percutaneous aortic valve replacement, but may also find use as replacements for
  other cardiac valves, such as, e.g., pulmonic, mitral, and tricuspid valves, as well as
  valves in the peripheral vasculature or in other bodily lumens, such as the alimentary
  canal, lymph ducts, the biliary duct, and any other lumens having valves requiring
  replacement or needing valve implantation.         Where the modular valve device is
  designed to replace an aortic valve, it may be assembled in the ascending aorta, the
  descending aorta, the left ventricle, at the implantation site, or part at the implantation
  site and part in the aorta. Although particularly adapted for use in lumens of the human
  body, the devices, systems, and methods may also find application in animals.
  [050]          The aforementioned embodiments as well as other embodiments are
  discussed and explained below with reference to the accompanying drawings.             The
5 drawings are provided as an exemplary understanding of the present invention and to
7 schematically illustrate particular embodiments of the present invention.       The skilled
  artisan will readily recognize other similar examples equally within the scope of the
  invention. The drawings are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention as
  defined in the appended claims.
  [051]          As noted above, the modular valve device of the invention comprises a
  valve module and support module, which may be delivered in unassembled delivery

                                                 19
  configurations and assembled and combined after deployment from a delivery device.
  The valve module comprises valve leaflets attached to a valve frame.            Exemplary
  depictions of a partially assembled valve frame and an expanded support module are
  illustrated in FIGS. 14A and 14B, respectively.       Details of the valve module and its
  connection to the support module are set forth in FIGS. 1-13.
  [052]          FIG. 1 illustrates a non-limiting embodiment of the valve module invention,
  in which the valve frame includes a first and second ring member.         As illustrated in
  FIG. 1, the valve module 10, in its assembled working configuration, includes valve
  leaflets 15 and a valve frame. The valve frame includes a first ring member 21 at the
  base of the valve module (proximal end of the valve) and a second ring member 22 at
  the distal end of the valve module (distal end of the valve) and a plurality of masts 25,
  28a, 28b, for example three masts, extending generally perpendicularly therebetween
  connecting the first and second ring members 21, 22. In one embodiment, the first ring
  member 21 is wider along the longitudinal axis than the second ring member 22 (see
  FIG. 14A), making the first ring member more resistant to warping, thereby maintaining
5 the shape of the assembled valve module.
7 [053]          The valve leaflets 15 may be attached to one or both ring members 21, 22
  and/or masts 25, 28a, 28b. In the embodiment depicted in FIG. 1, the valve leaflets 15
  are attached to the first ring member 21 and suspended from the second ring member
  22, for example at points adjacent the connection points between the masts 25, 28a,
  28b and the second ring member 22. FIG. 1 also illustrates an embodiment in which
  the valve leaflets 15 are attached to the split mast 28a, 28b but not the other masts 25.
  The valve leaflets 15 may be attached to the valve frame, for example, by sewing as

                                                20
  illustrated in FIG. 1, or by any other appropriate method known in the art. For example,
  the valve leaflets 15 may be suspended via leaflet loops 16, as illustrated in FIGS. 1, 5,
  6A and 6B . Alternatively, the valve leaflets 15 may be suspended or attached, e.g., by
  sewing, to a second ring member 22 or a mast 25, 28a, 28b, or by other means within
  the skill in the art. The leaflet loops 16 may be made from the same material as the
  valve leaflets 15 and fastened by, for example, sewing the loop closed, sewing the loop
  to the second ring member 22, or some combination thereof. Alternatively, the valve
  leaflets 15 may be suspended from the second ring member 22 by a loop formed of
  sewing thread or a second material.
  [054]           In one embodiment, rather than being attached directly to the valve frame,
  the valve leaflet material (first material) is attached to a second, flexible, more durable
  material, which in turn is affixed to the valve frame by means known in the art, e.g.,
  looping, sewing, gluing, bonding. One embodiment for attaching the valve leaflets to
  the valve frame is a sandwich attachment.           Specifically, in this aspect, the second
  material is wrapped around a portion of the valve frame, for example a ring member or a
5 mast, with sufficient segments of second material beyond the wrapping to allow a
7 segment of the first material to be inserted between the two segments of the second
  material to form a first material-second material-first material (three-layer) sandwich.
  The second material may then be attached to the first material, for example by sewing
  with, e.g., sutures. The first material may be, for example, pericardium and the second
  material may be, for example, Dacron, although other combinations of suitably materials
  known in the art also may be used.

                                                21
  [055]          The sandwich attachment embodiment may alternatively comprise an
  open sandwich (two layer). In this embodiment, the second material is wrapped around
  the valve frame and attached to itself leaving a tail, which may be separately attached to
  a segment of valve leaflet by means described above. Similar sandwich attachment
  designs may be used for attaching the valve leaflets to a mast, including use of tabs or
  loops to accommodate attachment points of locking members on the mast.                    An
  advantage of the sandwich attachment is improved longevity of valve integrity, as
  abrasion of the valve leaflet material (first material) by the surfaces of the valve frame is
  avoided.
  [056]           In its unassembled folded configuration, the first and second ring
  members 22, 22 of FIG. 1 are not closed or substantially closed structures, but open:
  each is arranged in a substantially linear configuration, having a first end and a second
  end, as shown for example, in FIGS. 2 and 3A. In one embodiment, as illustrated in
  FIGS. 1, 2 and 3A (see also FIG. 9A), one of the masts is a split mast 28a, 28b, such
  that a first half of the split mast 28a is located at a first end of the unassembled valve
5 module, connected to the first end of the ring member(s), and a second half of the split
7 mast 28b is located at a second end of the unassembled valve module, connected to
  the second end of the ring member(s). The valve leaflets 15 may be secured to each
  half of the split mast 28a, 28b, for example by sewing, by the methods described above,
  or by any other appropriate method known in the art.
  [057]          A ring member, as illustrated in FIG. 9A for a valve frame having a split
  mast, may be fitted with a wire guide 30, for example, adjacent the proximal end of a
  mast, through which an assembly wire 80 may be threaded. The proximal end is the

                                             22
  end nearest the heart when the valve is implanted to replace an aortic valve.          For
  example, as shown in FIG. 14A, a first wire guide 30 may be located on the first ring
  member 21 (see also FIG. 9A) near the first half of a split mast 28a, and second wire
  guide 31 may be located on the second ring member 22 near the second half of a split
  mast 28b. Similarly, a first wire guide 30 also may be located on the first ring member
  21 near the proximal end of a mast 25 and a second wire guide 31 may be located on
  the second ring member 22 near the proximal end of the mast 25. While not a required
  feature of the valve frame, the wire guides 30, 31 are useful for maintaining proper
  alignment of the assembly wires 80 relative to the valve frame when deploying the valve
  module from the catheter.
  [058]         When delivering the valve module, it must be folded to a delivery
  configuration having a small diameter, yet be able to readily transform to a near tubular
  configuration after deployment for assembly and combination with the support module.
  The present invention provides an improved valve frame structure for folding the valve
  module.
5 [059]          Folding the masts towards the ring members to form a substantially
7 collinear folded valve frame, may cause significant stress or strain on valve frame
  material at the connection points between the masts and the first and second ring
  members. Thus in one aspect of the invention, the connection points may be designed
  as pivot points 70, shown, for example, in FIG. 2. Use of pivot points, as opposed to
  standard unelaborated connections, facilitates folding of the valve frame to permit the
  first and second rings and masts to be substantially collinear without causing significant
  material strain or stress at the connection points.   Reduction in strains on the valve

                                            23
frame via the novel pivot points of the invention provides a further advantage of allowing
a minimum cross section when the first and second rings and masts of the valve frame
are folded so as to be substantially collinear. In one embodiment, the masts and first
and second ring members are considerably stiffer than the pivot points. There are any
number of ways to optimize pivot points to reduce the material strain or stress at the
connection points, for example adjusting the plane, thickness, width or shape of the
connection. Two non-limiting examples of pivot points that may be used, which employ
shape, are described below, but based on this description one skilled in the art would
understand other shapes that may be used for the inventive pivot points.
[060]          In one embodiment of a valve frame 20, depicted in FIG. 2, the novel pivot
points 70a, 70b may be contained in the masts 25, 28a, 28b, substantially s-shaped 71,
and connect to the first and second ring members 21, 22 at right angles.               The
orientation of the s-shape of the pivot point 70a connecting the first ring member 21 to a
mast 25, 28a, 28b may be opposite (or the inverse) of the s-shape of the pivot point 70b
connecting the second ring member 22 to a mast 25, 28a, 28b, as shown in FIG. 2.
Compare 70a and 70b in FIG. 2. Preferably, the s-shaped pivot points 71 connecting
masts to the first ring member 21 have the same orientation, and s-shaped pivot points
71 connecting masts to the second ring member 22 have the same orientation. The s
shaped pivot point illustrated in FIG. 2 may also have a narrower width than the masts.
[061]          In another embodiment of a valve frame 120, depicted in FIGS. 3A and
3B, the novel pivot point 170 may be more complex, including a "horseshoe" connection
75 between the mast 25, 28a, 28b and a first segment 121a, 122a of a ring member
121, 122 and a diagonal connection 76 between the horseshoe member 75 and an

                                              24
  adjacent segment 121b, 122b of the ring member 121, 122.            FIG. 3A illustrates this
  valve frame 120 embodiment in its substantially flat unassembled configuration. FIG.
  3B illustrates the pivot point 170 in greater detail. The orientation of the horseshoe 75
  at the mast connection to the first ring member 121 is opposite to the orientation of the
  horseshoe connection 75 at the mast connection to the second ring member 122.
  Concomitantly, the orientation of the diagonal member 76 between the horseshoe
  member 75 and the adjacent segment of the first ring member 121 is opposite to the
  orientation of the diagonal connection 76 between the horseshoe member 75 and the
  adjacent segment of the second ring member 122. Compare 170a and 170b in FIG.
  3A. Preferably, the orientation of the horseshoe member 75 and diagonal member 76
  connecting masts to the first ring member 121 have the same orientation, and
  horseshoe member 75 and diagonal member 76 connecting masts to the second ring
  member 122 have the same orientation. The horseshoe member 75 at the pivot point
  170 spreads displacements so that the strains are lower, and the diagonal connection
  76 reduces angular displacements thus reducing strains.        Optionally, the horseshoe
  diagonal connection pivot point 170 may be the same width as the masts.
7 [062]          Alternatively, pivot points, whether S-shaped or horseshoe-diagonal or
  some other geometric shape, also, or instead, may have less thickness (e.g., smaller
  gauge) - in other words the portion that bends may be thinner than the mast or ring
  member structures in addition to or as an alternative to the favorable geometric pivot
  point shape. Connections between mast and ring members may alternatively include
  hinges.

                                              25
  [063]          When the valve frame 120 of the embodiment of FIGS. 3A-B is in its
  working configuration, the horseshoe/diagonal pivot points 170 are planar. The planar
  construction of the embodiment of valve frame 120 is illustrated in FIG. 4A, which
  shows that viewed from the top, the valve frame appears as two round rings, which are
  the first ring member 121 and the second ring member 122.             FIG. 4B depicts the
  embodiment of valve frame 120 with the horseshoe/diagonal pivot points 170 in its
  working configuration, viewed from the side. This perspective shows that the first and
  second ring members 121, 122 in this embodiment are not simple rings, but appear
  "wavy".    Compare the first and second ring members of FIG. 4B to those in the
  embodiment illustrated in FIG. 2.       Ring shafts 37 on the masts are also shown.
  Nevertheless, the ring members 121, 122 of the embodiment of FIGS. 3A-4B are
  substantially collinear to each other and the masts in the folded delivery configuration.
  [064]          To percutaneously deliver the valve module, the masts 25, 28a, 28b may
  be folded so that the the substantially linear ring members 21, 22, 121, 122 and masts
  are oriented in the same general direction, to form a substantially collinear valve frame,
5 and - with the valve leaflet(s) 15 - may be wrapped in a spiral around a guide wire 86,
7 as shown in FIG. 5. This method of folding the valve module permits the guide wire 86
  to pass through the center of the spiraled linear valve frame and valve leaflets. A guide
  wire lumen may extend through the catheter 85 and the valve module 10 may be folded
  around the guide wire lumen or around the guide wire and, as shown in FIG. 6A, loaded
  in a catheter 85 (depicted as a clear tube for purposes of illustration) for delivery of the
  valve module.      When the valve module 10 is deployed, the valve frame facilitates
  unfolding of the valve module (FIG. 6B) and the formation of a generally rounded shape

                                             26
  (see FIGS. 7C, 7D). The capability of the masts to be folded down on the ring members
  to form the substantially collinear valve frame helps provide a minimized delivery
  diameter for the valve frame, and thus the valve module.
  [065]          The support module may comprise a plurality of cells defined by filaments
  or struts, as shown in FIGS. 14B, 14D (see also FIGS. 7A-B, 8A, 10A). The plurality of
  cells may include one or more large cells 43, as shown in FIG. 14B (see also FIGS.
  10A-B, 14C-D), to accommodate potential vascular intervention procedures that may be
  necessary in patients who have had the modular valve previously implanted. The larger
  cells 43 provide access through the implanted valve, for example, for catheters to be
  steered into coronary arteries.
  [066]          When deployed, the support module should engage the valve annulus (or
  for example in an aortic valve replacement, the orifice of the left ventricle), pinning back
  the native valve leaflets, if not removed, so as to be secure therein so that the valve
  module does not shift in the lumen and is not displaced from the desired location, for
  example from the pressure of fluid flow through the valve or its impact on the closed
5 valve. The support module may also enlarge the orifice of a stenotic valve.            In one
7 embodiment, the shape of the support module is annular with a uniform diameter, but it
  may be provided in other shapes too, depending on the cross-sectional shape of the
  lumen at the location the valve is to be implanted. Thus, for example, in its expanded
  configuration, the support module may have a non-uniform diameter along                     its
  longitudinal axis. The diameter of the proximal and distal ends of the support module
  may be the same or different. In one embodiment, illustrated in FIG. 14B, the support
  module may have a smaller diameter in the center region than at the proximal and distal

                                              27
  ends. In such an embodiment, a longitudinal cross-section through the midline of the
  support module would have an hour glass or dog-bone shape.             Such a shape may
  facilitate seating the support module in the valve annulus and/or improve sealing of the
  valve against the native anatomy.
  [067]           As illustrated in FIGS. 7A-E, the system of the invention includes a
  delivery system 87, including a delivery device such as a catheter 85, for delivering the
  device modules in their low profile delivery configurations and from which the device
  modules may be deployed. The system also includes assembly wires 80 and pusher
  members 81, used for deploying and assembling the modular valve device of the
  invention.
  [068]           The valve device of the invention may include a plurality of sets of locking
  members designed to lock the valve module to the expanded support module. Any of a
  variety of locking members may be used to lock the valve module to the support
  module, or for locking the ends of the unassembled valve module to one another.
  Examples of such locking members are described in detail in        83-111, 113 and Figs.
5 7, 7A, 8A-14C of US 2010/0185275A1, incorporated herein by reference. Novel locking
7 members, as described in more detail below, are preferred.           Each set of locking
  members may comprise a first locking member and a second locking member. The first
  locking member of the locking member set may be attached to one of the masts of the
  valve frame and a second locking member of the locking member set may be attached
  to the support module. The first and second members of each set are circumferentially
  aligned with each other, and in a preferred embodiment, a wire guide is circumferentially
  aligned with a first locking member.

                                            28
  [069]         The first and second locking members may comprise a spear and a
  corresponding shaft having a lumen, wherein the spear has a first spear end and a
  second spear end, and a spearhead at the first spear end, the spearhead including an
  eyelet and an elongated aperture. Thus, in one embodiment employing novel locking
  members of the invention, the support module 40 has a plurality of spears 45, 145 at its
  distal end 42, which spears are designed to align with the plurality of shafts 35, 135,
  136. In FIGS. 8A-B, 9A-B, 10A-B, shafts 35, 135, 136 or ring shafts 37 are located on
  the masts 25, 28a, 28b of the valve frame. In other embodiments, the shafts 35, 135,
  136 or ring shafts 37 may be located on the one or more ring members 21, 22 of the
  valve frame, or the shafts 35, 135, 136 or ring shafts 37 may be located on a
  combination of masts and ring members. The spear and shaft embodiment of locking
  mechanism may be described generally with reference to the non-limiting embodiments
  of FIGS. 8A-B, 9A-B.      Each spear 45 may have an eyelet 46 through which an
  assembly wire 80 may be threaded. See FIGS. 8B, 9B. Alternatively, the assembly
  wire 80 may be threaded through a portion of the support module (not shown).
5 [070]         In another embodiment, the spears 45 may be located on the valve frame,
7 with the spearhead at the proximal end of the valve module, and the shafts 35, 135, 136
  and/or ring shafts 37 may be located on the support module 40. In such embodiments,
  the valve module may be pushed into the support module along the assembly wires
  using push members, or pulled into the support module, as described in more detail
  below.
  [071]         The   spears  45   may   include   spearheads   47   having   geometrical
  configurations that prevent the valve module from moving distally out of the support

                                                  29
  module, thereby locking the valve module to the support module. As illustrated in FIGS.
  8A-B, the spearhead 47 comprises a flexible section, designed in this embodiment as a
  "kite". The spearhead 47 is shaped so as to flex to allow a shaft 35 to be eased over
  the spearhead 47 of the spear 45 using a pusher member 81 (see above, FIGS. 7D,
  7E), but to prevent the shaft 35 from slipping back distally, thereby locking the valve
  module to the support module. Other geometric configurations also may be used, for
  example without limitation, diamond, circular, arrowhead, rivet, hook, ball/bulb and
  comparable shapes that permit unidirectional movement.
  [072]          The assembly wire 80 is shown in FIGS. 8A and 8B looped through the
  eyelet 46 of the spear 45, and the shaft 35 is shown locked between the kite spearhead
  47 at the distal end of the spear 45 and a spear cross 49 proximally. Alternatively, the
  assembly wire may be looped through an eyelet of one spear, around a portion of the
  support module and through the eyelet of an adjacent spear, or two adjacent spears,
  back up through         a different wire guide, for example associated with a shaft
  corresponding to an adjacent spear. Such an arrangement decreases the number of
5 required assembly wires for guiding the valve module to the support module.                In a
7 further alternative embodiment, the assembly wire may be looped through a portion of
  the support module, as described in one aspect in US 2011/0172784A1,               incorporated
  herein by reference.
  [073]          Where the valve frame includes a split mast, the split mast may include a
  pair of shafts, a first shaft 135 on the first half of the split mast (obscured), and a second
  shaft 136 on the second half of the split mast 28b, as illustrated in FIG. 9A. In this way,
  as the first and second shafts 135, 136 are eased over the spearhead 47, the first and

                                               30
  second shafts 135, 136 simultaneously close the valve module to form the cylindrical
  working configuration. As in FIG. 8B, the spear 45 with spearhead 47 shown in FIG. 9B
  includes a spear cross 49 as a backstop, so that the valve module does not move
  proximally in the support module toward the heart. However in FIG. 9B, it is the wire
  guide 30, not the shafts, that abut the spear cross 49 and "seat" the shafts on the spear
  45.
  [074]          In another embodiment of the spear-shaft locking members, illustrated in
  FIGS. 10A-B, the spear is a hybrid spear 50, and a ring shaft 37 may be eased over a
  hybrid spear 50 to lock the valve module to the support module.        The details of one
  embodiment of the hybrid spear 50 are shown in FIGS. 11A-C, the main structural
  elements being separated segments and a groove.            The hybrid spear 50 includes
  segments 51a, 51b separated by an elongated aperture 54, which elongated aperture
  54 permits the segments 51a, 51b to flex slightly toward one another as the ring shaft
  57 is slid over it, and a groove 53 into which the ring shaft 37 may come to rest, thereby
  locking the ring shaft 37 on the hybrid spear 50. In the embodiment depicted in FIGS.
5 11A-C, there are two segments, however a hybrid spear having more than two
7 segments is within the scope of the invention. FIG. 11A shows the eyelet 52, segments
  51a, 51b, and groove 53. FIG. 11B shows a ring shaft 37 being eased onto the hybrid
  spear 50. FIG. 11C shows the ring shaft set in the groove 53 (obscured by the ring
  shaft) of the hybrid spear 50, thereby locking the valve module to the support module.
  [075]          In yet another embodiment of locking members, illustrated in FIGS. 12A-B
  and 13A-B, a one-sided hybrid spear 60 comprising a spearhead 61 and stem region 68
  that cooperates with a plurality of ring shafts 66, 67 and/or shafts 65a, 65b to lock the

                                              31
valve module to the support module.            The spearhead 61 includes two segments
separated by an elongated aperture 64 and a single groove 63 on the outer edge of one
of the segments and an eyelet 62. The spear head 61 of the one-sided spear 60 may
have a smaller diameter than the stem 68 and/or be tapered from a first end, where the
eyelet 62 is located, toward the groove 63, but flares on one side to produce a wedge
shape just above the groove 63 visible in FIGS. 12B, 13B. The diameter or width of the
spear head 61 at the wedge does not exceed the diameter or width of the stem 68. An
assembly wire may be threaded through the eyelet 62 at the top of the spear head 61.
[076]           FIGS. 12A-B illustrate a one-sided spear 60 locked into ring shafts 66 and
67 (single-groove snap lock), which are attached to a mast 25. FIG. 12A shows a lower
or first ring shaft 66 on the stem region 68 of spear 60 and an upper or second ring
shaft 67 in a groove 63 of the spear head 61. The spear 60 includes at the base of the
stem region 68, a spear stop 69, which limits the advance of the lower first ring shaft 66
over the spear 60. FIG. 12B is a cut-away view, revealing the structure of the spear
head 61, which includes two segments join at each end that define an aperture 64. On
the outer edge of one of the segments is a groove 63. FIG. 12B also illustrates the
inner structure of the lower and upper ring shafts 66, 67. The ring shafts 66, 67 have
lumens with diameters large enough for the spear 60 to fit on. The lumen diameter of
the first ring shaft 66 is substantially the same as the width of the stem region 68. The
the lumen diameter of the second ring shaft 67 is smaller than the width of the stem
region 68, and substantially the same as the width or diameter of the spearhead 61 at
the point of the groove 63, allowing it to lock into the single groove 63 of the spear 60.

                                                32
  [077]          A one-sided spear 60 is particularly useful in conjunction with shafts on
  split masts 128a, 128b, as illustrated in FIGS. 13A-B. The spear 60 of FIGS. 13A-B is
  the same as spear 60 in FIGS. 12A-B, but the shafts differ to accommodate the split
  masts 128a, 128b. As depicted in FIG. 13A split mast 128a may have a shaft 65a and
  a ring shaft 67 attached to it, and split mast 128b may have a shaft 65b attached to it,
  all of which shafts 65a, 65b and ring shaft 67 may be slid over the spear 60 to lock the
  sides of the valve module together and lock the valve module to the support module.
  FIG. 13B is a cut-away view, revealing the structure of the spear head 61, as in FIG.
  12B - the two segments that define an aperture 64 and groove 63 on the outer edge of
  one of the segments. FIG. 13B also illustrates the inner structure of the shafts 65a, 65b
  and ring shaft 67.   The lumen diameters of the shafts 65a, 65b are substantially the
  same as the width or diameter of the stem region 68 of spear 60. The lumen diameter
  of ring shaft 67 is smaller than the width or diameter of the stem region 68, and
  substantially the same as the width or diameter of the spearhead 61 at the point of the
  groove 63, allowing it to lock into the single groove 63 of the spear 60. In one aspect of
  this embodiment ring shaft 67 and shaft 65b may be located on one half of the split
7 mast 128b and shaft 65a may be located on the other half of the split mast 128a. In an
  alternative aspect, what is depicted in FIGS. 13A-B as ring shaft 67 may be a region of
  shaft 65a with smaller inner diameter, located on one half of the split mast 128a and
  shaft 65b may be located on the other half of the split mast 128b. Other combinations
  of shafts and ring shafts may be used with the split masts 128a, 128b, but all ring
  shafts/shafts have a diameter large enough to slide over the stem region 68 of spear 60,
  except for the one that fits into the single groove 63.

                                                33
  [078]           In either embodiment, where the single groove, one-sided spear 60 is
  used with a mast 25 or split masts 128a, 128b, the maximum width/diameter of the
  spear head 61 flare or wedge is not greater than the width/diameter of the stem region
  68 and the elongated aperture 68 functions to allow at least one segment of the spear
  head 61 to flex toward the other upon application of stress. Thus, the shafts or ring
  shafts 65a, 65b, 66 with the larger lumen diameter may readily slide over the spear
  head 61 without flexing the segments of the spear head toward the elongated aperture
  63. The ring shaft 67 (or ring shaft portion of a shaft), by contrast, having a narrower
  lumen diameter causes at least the segment of the spearhead 61 having the flare or
  wedge to flex, and subsequently the ring shaft 67 comes to rest in the groove 63. More
  particularly, the first ring shaft 66, the lower shaft having the larger luminal diameter, is
  eased over the spear 60 first, but pushing on a pusher 81. The segments on either side
  of the elongated aperture 64 does not flex as the first ring shaft 66 is slid over it, in view
  of the luminal diameter of the first ring shaft 66. The second ring shaft 67, the upper
  ring shaft having the smaller lumenal diameter, is then pushed over the spear head
  using the pusher 81. The elongated aperture 64 of the spearhead permits flexing of a
7 segment on at least one side of the aperture 64 where the wedge is located, so that the
  second ring shaft 67 can be pushed over the largest flare of the taper, the wedge. The
  luminal diameter of the second ring shaft 67 designed to be closely matched to the
  width of the groove 63, and second ring shaft 67 the snaps into the single groove 63 of
  the one-sided hybrid spear 60.
  [079]           An advantage of the one-sided spear 60 in combination with ring shaft 67
  and shafts 65a, 65b, 66 over, for example a hybrid spear as illustrated in FIGS. 10A-B

                                             34
  and 11A-C, is it permits a narrower outer diameter for both spear and shaft, which in
  turn reduces the overall profile of the valve module. Another advantage is that less
  force is required to push the spear through the shafts.
  [080]          As locking members, the shafts and ring shafts are designed to interact
  with the spears to seat the valve module in the support module and lock the two device
  modules together, and/or to close the first and second ends of the valve module.
  Various combinations of spears, shafts and ring shafts may be used.       Other locking
  members may be used in the alternative or in combination with the spears and shafts
  described herein, and the pushers similarly may be used to engage the locking
  members in addition to advancing the valve member over the assembly wires.
  [081]          In certain embodiments, the wire guides may have an additional function.
  Where the pushers are used to advance the valve module into the support module and
  to engage locking members, the wire guide 31 on the second ring may provide a
  surface upon which the pushers exert force. Using the wire guides for this purpose may
  provide the following, non-limiting, advantages of avoiding damaging the leaflet tissue
5 and/or preventing the pushers from slipping off a ring surface. Similarly, where shafts
7 are located on valve modules, the distal end of the shafts may be used as a surface
  against which the pusher members push the valve member. In some embodiments, a
  wire guide also may serve as a "seat" against the spear cross once the shafts are fully
  engaged on the spear (see e.g., FIG. 9B).
  [082]          Referring back to FIGS. 7A-E, which depict the system of the invention, a
  method of deploying and assembling the modular valve device of the invention is

                                           35
  illustrated. In this embodiment, an assembly wire 80 is threaded through the wire guide
  31 and looped through the eyelet of the spear and doubled back, so that the assembly
  wire 80 is a double wire through the wire guides prior to loading the device modules
  into the delivery system.   See FIGS. 8A-B, 9A-B, and 10B.         In this way, after the
  support module 40 has been deployed, expanded and anchored at the location of valve
  implantation, the valve module 10 may be deployed from the delivery device, unfolded
  and made to ride down the assembly wires 80 toward and into the support module 40.
  See FIGS. 7A-E. In another embodiment, the assembly wire may be threaded through
  the eyelet of one spear, around the support module through an eyelet of another spear
  and back up through another wire guide. Such an arrangement decreases the number
  of assembly wires required and preserves the ability to pull on one end of the assembly
  wire for removal.
  [083]          Pusher members 81 may be slid over the assembly wires 80 and used to
  push the valve module 10 along the assembly wires 80. Pusher members 81 may be,
  for example, hollow tubes through which the assembly wires 80 are threaded, and
5 which may be manipulated via the delivery system 87. Pusher members 81 may be
7 used to deploy the valve module from the catheter and/or to assist in assembling the
  valve module 10 and lock it to the support module 40.         In any of these uses, the
  assembly wires 80 are held at tension, so that the valve module 10 may glide over the
  assembly wires as though on rails. Wire guides 31 may be used not only to orient the
  valve module 10 relative to the support module 40, but also in conjunction with the
  pusher members 81 to connect/attach the valve module 10 and support module 40.

                                               36
  [084]          In another embodiment (not shown), each spear and its eyelet may be
  located on the valve module, with the spearhead at the proximal end of the spear, and
  the shaft may be located on the support module. In this embodiment, the catheter may
  be advanced through the support module past the proximal end 41 (see FIG. 10A) of
  the support module and used to pull on the assembly wires thereby pulling the valve
  module into the support module and the spears into the shafts.             In still another
  embodiment, the spears may be located on the valve module and the shafts on the
  support module, and the method may include advancing the catheter beyond the
  proximal end 41 of the support module 40 and using the assembly wires 80 (and
  optionally pusher members 65) to pull the valve module 10 toward and into the support
  module 40.
  [085]          Once the valve module and support module are assembled and locked
  together, because each assembly wire 80 is a double wire, one end of the assembly
  wire 80 may be pulled to disengage the assembly wire from the implanted, assembled
  valve device.
5 [086]          A method of deploying and assembling the modular device using the
7 system of the invention may proceed as follows: advancing the delivery device so that
  its distal end is near a selected location, for example the location of valve implantation;
  deploying the support module from the delivery device; expanding the support module
  at the selected location (where the support module is not self-expanding); deploying the
  valve module from the delivery device; advancing the valve module along the assembly
  wires toward the support module using the pusher members; and moving each of the
  plurality of shafts over the corresponding spear to lock the valve module to the support

                                                37
  module. The moving step may also include moving the first and second shafts of the
  split mast over the spear (or moving the spears into the shafts if the location of the
  spears and shafts on the device modules is reversed) to form a working configuration
  valve module. In another embodiment, the valve module may be deployed before the
  support module, and advanced into the support module after the support module is
  seated in the native valve annulus. In this alternative method, the catheter containing
  the support module may be advanced through the deployed valve module and
  deployed, either the catheter advanced further, and then the valve module may be
  pulled onto the support module, or the catheter may be withdrawn and pushers used to
  glide the valve module over the assembly wires onto the support module.
  [087]           As illustrated in FIG. 7A, the support module 40 has been deployed and
  expanded at a selected location in a vessel 90 (the blood vessel depicted as a clear
  tube for purposes of illustration) and the catheter 85 withdrawn to provide space for
  deploying the valve module 10. The assembly wires 80 are held taut, for example at a
  tension. FIG. 7B illustrates the folded valve module being deployed from the catheter
5 85, the first ring member 21 visible with the valve leaflet attached. In FIG. 7C, the valve
7 module has been deployed and is unfolded, but not yet in a working configuration. The
  first ring member 21, second ring member 22, a mast 25, first and second halves of a
  split mast 28a, 28b, and the valve leaflet 15 are visible. The assembly wires 80 are
  shown taut between the support module 40, threaded through the wire guides (not
  shown) of the valve module and into the catheter 85.         FIG. 7D illustrates the pusher
  members 81 being deployed from the delivery system 87, the assembly wires 80 still

                                                38
  held at tension. FIGS. 7D and 7E show how the pusher members 81 may be used to
  push the valve module 10 into the support module 40.
  [088]          In certain embodiments, the deployed and unfolded valve module may be
  pulled into the support module via the assembly wires by a method that further includes
  advancing the delivery device, for example a catheter, distally through the deployed
  valve module and the deployed and expanded support module to a point distal of the
  support module (i.e., beyond the proximal end of the support module) and pulling the
  assembly wires.     The shafts may be pulled over the spear heads of the spears to
  engage the shafts and spears by further pulling the assembly wires. Alternatively, the
  pushers may be used to pull the valve module into the support module and the shafts
  over the spearheads. In this aspect of the method, the pushers are extended beyond
  the distal end of the catheter, i.e., well beyond the proximal end of the support module.
  Advancing the pushers in this manner effectively pulls on the taut assembly wires,
  thereby pulling the valve module into the support module and effecting locking of the
  locking members, such as pulling the shafts over the spearheads.                  In such
5 embodiments, the spears may be located on the valve frame, with the spearhead at the
7 proximal end of the valve module, and the shafts and/or ring shafts located on the
  support module.
  [089]          FIGS. 14A-D are provided to illustrate the structures of the valve module
  and support module of the invention.        FIG. 14A is a schematic drawing based on a
  photograph illustrating an embodiment of a valve frame 20 for a valve module in
  accordance with the invention. The details of valve frame 20 are depicted without the
  valve leaflets attached. In this embodiment the valve frame 20 has a first ring member

                                             39
  21, a second ring member 22, a plurality of masts 25, including a split mast, comprising
  split mast halves 28a, 28b, and pivot points 70.       In this embodiment, the first ring
  member 21 is wider (longitudinally) than the second ring member 22, but has the same
  radial thickness. Also shown is one of a plurality of first wire guides 30 on the first ring
  member 21 and one of a plurality of second wire guides 31 on the second ring member
  22, the second wire guides 31 having a surface (as depicted, a flat surface) for pushing
  members to push against. Exemplary locking members are also depicted. Specifically,
  first and second ring shafts 37a, 37b are located on each mast 25, first shaft member
  135 on the first split mast half 28a and a second shaft member 136 located on the
  second split mast 28b half.
  [090]         FIGS. 14B and 14C are schematic drawings based on photographs
  depicting embodiments of a support module 40 in accordance with the invention. These
  particular embodiments include spears 45 and one or more large cells 43, as discussed
  above.    The large cells 43 are preferably positioned at the distal end of the support
  module in embodiments intended to be implanted to replace an aortic valve, where they
5 may sit adjacent coronary arteries and provide access thereto. In other embodiments,
7 the position of large cells 43 and their size can be adjusted to accommodate the
  position and size of vessels to which catheter access may be desirable after
  implantation of the valve device. The support module 40 embodiment depicted in FIG.
  14B has a middle section with a narrower diameter than the proximal and distal
  sections, e.g., "hour-glass" shaped, as discussed above.          The support module 40
  embodiment depicted in FIG. 14C has a wider diameter at its distal end than at its
  proximal end, e.g., "pear" shaped. FIG. 14C further illustrates a valve frame 20, having

                                              40
a first and second ring member 21, 22, locked to the support module 40 using an
embodiment of hybrid spears 150 and shafts and ring shafts. The connections are
more readily viewed without valve leaflets attached to the valve frame. Assembly wires
80a, 80b are also shown, in particular assembly wire 80a is shown looped through an
eyelet of a hybrid spear and a wire guide 31 on the second ring 22.           FIG. 14D is a
schematic drawing based on a photograph illustrating details of an embodiment of a
hybrid spear 150 on a support module, including the eyelet 152. A large cell 43 of the
support module is also shown. The embodiment of a hybrid spear 150 in FIGS. 14B-D
is different from the hybrid spear 50 depicted in FIGS. 11A-C, but functions similarly
with ring spears.
[091]           It will be appreciated by persons having ordinary skill in the art that many
variations, additions, modifications, and other applications may be made to what has
been particularly shown and described herein by way of embodiments, without
departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore it is intended that scope of
the invention, as defined by the claims below, includes all foreseeable variations,
additions, modifications or applications.

                                           41
What is claimed is:
1.    A valve module for a percutaneous modular valve device, comprising: a valve
      frame; and a plurality of valve leaflets, said plurality of valve leaflets attached to
      said valve frame;
      wherein said valve frame comprises a first ring member, a second ring member
             and a plurality of masts connected to and disposed between said first and
             second ring members, wherein one of said plurality of masts is a
             longitudinally split mast having a first mast half and a second mast half;
             wherein said valve frame has a folded unassembled delivery configuration
             and is designed to be assembled into a working configuration after
             deployment from a delivery device; and wherein said first and second ring
             members and masts extend in the same general direction in said folded
             unassembled delivery configuration.
2.    The valve module of claim 1, wherein said valve leaflets are attached to said first
      ring member and suspended from said second ring member.
3.    The valve module of claim 1, wherein said valve leaflets are attached to said first
      ring member and suspended from said plurality of masts.
4.    The valve module of claim 1, wherein said valve leaflets comprise a first material
      and are attached to said valve frame via a sandwich attachment with a second
      material.

                                          42
  5.  The valve module of claim 4, wherein said second material is Dacron.
  6.  The valve module of claim 1, wherein said first ring member is wider than said
      second ring member along a longitudinal axis of said working configuration valve
      module.
  7.  The valve module of claim 1, wherein said connections between said plurality of
      masts and said first and second ring members are pivot points.
  8.  The valve module of claim 7, wherein said pivot points are S-shaped.
  9.  The valve module of claim 7, wherein said pivot points comprise a horseshoe
      connection and diagonal connection.
  10. The valve module of claim 1, wherein said folded unassembled delivery
      configuration comprises said valve leaflets and said collinear first and second
      ring members and plurality of masts spirally wound around a guide wire.
  11. The modular valve of claim 1, wherein said valve frame further comprises a
I     plurality of wire guides.
5 12. A modular percutaneous valve device comprising the valve module of any one of
5     claims 1-11, further comprising:
7     a support      module, said support module      having a compressed      delivery
              configuration and an expanded working configuration; and
      a plurality of complementary locking members, for locking said valve module and
              said expanded support module.

                                         43
13. The modular valve device of claim 12, wherein each of said complementary
    locking members comprises a spear and a shaft, said spear having a first end
    and a second end, said shaft fitting over said spear.
14. The modular valve device of claim 13, wherein at least one of said spears
    includes a spearhead at said first end and a spear cross at said second end.
15. The modular valve device of claim 13, wherein at least one complementary shaft
    and spear comprises a ring shaft and a hybrid spear.
16. The modular valve device of claim 13, wherein at least one complementary shaft
    and spear comprises a first ring shaft having a first internal diameter, a second
    ring shaft having a second internal diameter, and a one-sided hybrid spear.
17. The modular valve device of claim 13, wherein at least one complementary shaft
    and spear comprises a ring shaft having a first internal diameter, a shaft having a
    second internal diameter, and a one-sided hybrid spear.
18. The modular valve device of claim 13, wherein said shafts are located on said
    masts of said valve frame and said spears are located on said support module,
    each spear aligned with one of said plurality of masts.
19. The modular valve device of claim 13, wherein said first mast half of said valve
    frame includes a first shaft, said second mast half includes a second shaft, said
    first shaft located proximal of said second shaft along a longitudinal axis of said
    valve module, said first and second shafts designed to lock to a single
    corresponding spear on said support module.

                                             44
  20. A system for deploying the percutaneous modular valve device of any one of
      claims 12-19, comprising:
      a delivery device;
      a plurality of assembly wires; and
      a plurality of pusher members.
      each assembly wire threaded through one of said pusher members, and
              components of said valve module and support module in said delivery
              configurations.
  21. The system of claim 20, wherein said valve frame includes said plurality of wire
      guides, said wire guides comprising a plurality of first wire guides attached to
      said first ring member and a plurality of second wire guides attached to said
      second ring member, said assembly wire threaded through said first and second
      wire guides.
1 22. The system of claim 20, wherein said complementary locking members are
5     selected from the group consisting of: (a) shaft and spear, (b) ring shaft and
5     hybrid spear, (c) first ring shaft having a first diameter, second ring shaft having a
7     second diameter and single groove hybrid spear, and (d) combinations thereof;
      wherein said shafts, ring shafts, and first and second ring shafts are located on
      said masts of said valve frame and said spears are located on said support
      module, each spear, hybrid spear and single groove-hybrid spear having an
      eyelet at said first end, said assembly wire threaded through said eyelet.

                                          45
  23. A method of assembling a modular percutaneous valve device using the system
      of any one of claims 20-22, the method including:
      deploying said support module from said delivery device;
      deploying said folded unassembled valve module from said delivery device;
      sliding said valve module along said assembly wires into said support module
              using said pusher members; and
      locking said valve module within said support module to form a working
              configuration valve module.
  24. The method of claim 23, further comprising:
      guiding each of said plurality of shafts over said complementary spears using
              said pusher members to lock said valve module to said support module.
  25. The method of claim 24, wherein one of said plurality of masts is a split mast
      having a first mast half and a second mast half, said first mast half having a first
I     shaft, said second mast half having a second shaft, said first shaft located
5     proximal of said second shaft along a longitudinal axis of said valve module, said
5     first and second shafts designed to connect to a single complementary spear;
7     wherein said guiding step includes guiding said first and second shafts of said
              split mast over said corresponding spear to close said first and second
              ring members to lock closed said working configuration valve module.
  26. A modular percutaneous valve device comprising:

                                             46
      a valve module, said valve module including a valve frame and a plurality of
               valve leaflets attached thereto, said valve frame including at least one ring
               member and a plurality of masts connected thereto, wherein said valve
               module    has a folded     unassembled     delivery configuration     and   an
               assembled working configuration, each of said at least one ring members
               having a substantially straight delivery configuration with a first end and a
               second end; wherein in said folded unassembled delivery configuration
               each of said at least one ring members extends in the same general
               direction as said plurality of masts, said plurality of masts substantially
               orthogonal to said at least one ring member in said assembled working
               configuration;
      a support       module, said support module        having a compressed         delivery
               configuration and an expanded working configuration;
      a plurality of sets of locking members designed to lock said valve module to said
               expanded support module, each set of locking members comprising a
5              spear and a corresponding shaft having a lumen, wherein said spear has
7              a first spear end and a second spear end, and a spearhead at said first
               spear end, said spearhead including an eyelet and an elongated aperture;
               and
      a plurality of wire guides located on said at least one ring member.
  27. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said at least one ring member comprises a
      first ring member and a second ring member, said plurality of masts disposed

                                            47
      therebetween, and said valve leaflets are attached to said first ring member and
      suspended from said second ring member.
  28. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said valve leaflets are attached to a first
      ring member and suspended from said plurality of masts.
  29. The valve device of claim 26, wherein one of said plurality of masts includes a
      split mast having a first mast half connected to said first end of said at least one
      ring member and a second mast half connected to said second end of said at
      least one ring member.
  30. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said spearhead has a shape selected from
      the group consisting of:     a diamond-shape, a rhombus, a trapezoid, a kite, a
      circle, a rectangle, an oval, an arrowhead, a sphere, an ovoid, and a bulb.
  31. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said spear further comprises a spear-cross
      at said second spear end, said corresponding shaft designed to lock between
      said spearhead and said spear-cross.
5 32. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said spear is a hybrid spear, wherein said
5     spearhead further includes a groove; and wherein said shaft comprises a ring
7     shaft having lumenal diameter comparable to a width of said spearhead at said
      groove.
  33. The valve device of claim 32, wherein said groove is located on only one side of
      said hybrid spear, said hybrid spear further comprising a stem; and wherein said
      ring shaft comprises a first ring shaft having a first lumenal diameter comparable

                                           48
      to a width of said spear at said stem and a second ring shaft having a second
      lumenal diameter comparable to said spearhead width at said groove.
  34. The valve device of claim 32, wherein said groove is located on only one side of
      said hybrid spear, said hybrid spear further comprising a stem; and wherein said
      shaft further comprises a first shaft and a second shaft, said first and second
      shaft having a first lumenal diameter comparable to a width of said spear at said
      stem, said ring shaft having a second lumenal diameter comparable to said
      spearhead width at said groove.
  35. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said first member is said shaft, and said
      second member is said spear.
  36. The valve device of claim 26, wherein said first member is a spear, and said
      second member is a shaft.
  37. The valve device of claim 26, wherein one of said plurality of masts is a split mast
      having a first half connected to said first end of said at least one ring member
5     and a second half connected to said second end of said at least one ring
5     member, and wherein said first split mast half includes a first shaft, said second
7     split mast half includes a second shaft, said first shaft located proximal of said
      second shaft along a longitudinal axis of said valve frame, said first and second
      shafts designed to lock to a single corresponding spear.
  38. A system for deploying a percutaneous modular valve device, comprising:
      the modular valve device of any one of claims 26-37;

                                          49
      a delivery device;
      a plurality of pusher members; and
      a plurality of assembly wires;
      each assembly wire threaded through at least one of said plurality of pusher
              members, at least one of said wire guides and at least one of said eyelets,
              to guide said valve module to said support module by advancing said
              pusher member, at least one of said wire guides having a surface for said
              pusher member to exert force and engage said sets of first and second
              locking members.
  39. A method of assembling a modular percutaneous valve device using the system
      of claim 38, the method including:
      deploying said support module from said delivery device;
      deploying said folded unassembled valve module from said delivery device;
I     guiding said valve module along said assembly wires into said support module
5             using said pusher member; and
5     engaging said first and second locking member sets using said pushing member
7             to close said valve module to form a working configuration valve module
              and lock said valve module within said support module.
  40. The method of claim 39, wherein one of said plurality of masts is a split mast
      having a first half and a second half, said first split mast half having a first shaft,

                                    50
said second split mast half having a second shaft, said first shaft located
proximal of said second shaft along a longitudinal axis of said valve module in
the assembled working configuration, said first and second shafts designed to
lock to a single corresponding spear;
wherein said guiding step includes guiding said first and second shafts of said
       split masts over said corresponding spear to close said at least one ring
       member.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
