                                              -32
ABSTRACT
A netting material has a reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven
fastening features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features,
the first row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart
side-by-side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal
fold line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening
features and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row
of fastening features.      The double-layered row of fastening features provides an
attachment location for securing the netting material to a support structure.

      1'I/'
   FIGURE 12A
FIGURE 12B

                                                -1
                               NETTING MATERIAL WITH EYELETS
   FIELD OF INVENTION
 5 The invention relates to netting materials and particularly but not exclusively to netting
   materials for use as bird netting, insect netting, shade netting, wind screen netting, or hail
   protection netting, for example, or in other agricultural applications.
   BACKGROUND
10
   Bird netting, insect netting, shade netting, wind screen netting, or hail protection netting
   may be placed near plants to protect for example annual plants, perennial plants, fruit
   trees, or grape vines, from birds, insects, excessive sun, wind, or hail. Typically the netting
   is supported over the plant(s) and/or as a vertical and/or angled wall or walls near the
15 plant(s), by for example cables or wires between posts positioned along the rows of plants
   in a garden, field crop, orchard or vineyard, or is draped over the plant(s) or is laid on the
   ground.
   NZ Patent number 624707, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference,
20 discloses a netting material having a length dimension and a width dimension smaller than
   the length dimension, the netting material formed by threads knitted or woven together,
   the netting material comprising:
            a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures,
            a reinforced edge portion at or adjacent each longitudinal edge of the netting
25 material comprising a longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features, and
            a reinforced intermediate portion between the reinforced edge portions comprising
   a first longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features and a corresponding second
   longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first longitudinal row of
   fastening features and the second longitudinal row of fastening features spaced apart side
30 by-side in a lateral direction of the netting so that, in use, folding the reinforced
   intermediate portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold line between the two rows of
   fastening features brings the first longitudinal row of fastening features and the second
   longitudinal row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of fastening
   features, the double-layered row of fastening features and the row of fastening features of
35 the reinforced edge portions providing three longitudinal attachment locations for securing
   the netting material to a support structure.

                                                -2
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   In a first aspect the invention provides a netting material formed by threads knitted or
 5 woven together, the netting material comprising:
            a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures, and
            at least one reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven fastening
   features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first
   row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart side-by
10 side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold
   line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening features
   and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of
   fastening features, the double-layered row of fastening features providing an attachment
   location for securing the netting material to a support structure,
15 and wherein said material is not a netting material having a length dimension and a
   width dimension smaller than the length dimension, the netting material formed by threads
   knitted or woven together, the netting material comprising:
            a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures,
            a reinforced edge portion at or adjacent each longitudinal edge of the netting
20 material comprising a longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features, and
            a reinforced intermediate portion between the reinforced edge portions comprising
   a first longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features and a corresponding second
   longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first longitudinal row of
   fastening features and the second longitudinal row of fastening features spaced apart side
25 by-side in a lateral direction of the netting so that, in use, folding the reinforced
   intermediate portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold line between the two rows of
   fastening features brings the first longitudinal row of fastening features and the second
   longitudinal row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of fastening
   features, the double-layered row of fastening features and the row of fastening features of
30 the reinforced edge portions providing three longitudinal attachment locations for securing
   the netting material to a support structure.
   In another aspect, the invention provides a netting material formed by threads knitted or
   woven together, the netting material comprising:
35          a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures, and
            at least one reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven fastening
   features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first

                                                -3
   row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart side-by
   side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold
   line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening features
   and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of
 5 fastening features, the double-layered row of fastening features providing an attachment
   location for securing the netting material to a support structure,
           and wherein the netting material has a width dimension and the reinforced portion
   is located in an outer 30% of the width of the netting material.
10 In a further aspect, the invention provides a netting material formed by threads knitted or
   woven together, the netting material comprising:
           a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures, and
           at least one reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven fastening
   features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first
15 row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart side-by
   side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold
   line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening features
   and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of
   fastening features, the double-layered row of fastening features providing an attachment
20 location for securing the netting material to a support structure,
           and wherein the netting does not comprise a reinforced edge portion comprising a
   single longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features at or adjacent each
   longitudinal edge of the netting material.
25 In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and said at least one
   reinforced portion is located within an outer 30% of the width of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and said at least one
   reinforced portion is located within an outer 20% of the width of the netting material.
30
   In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and said at least one
   reinforced portion is located within an outer 10% of the width of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and said at least one
35 reinforced portion is located within an outer 5% of the width of the netting material.

                                               -4
   In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion is located at or adjacent a
   transverse or longitudinal edge of said netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material has a length dimension and a width dimension
 5 smaller, or much smaller, than the length dimension.
   In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion is a first reinforced portion, and
   comprising a second of the reinforced portion.
10 In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and the first reinforced
   portion is located to extend longitudinally within a first region being an outer 30% of the
   width of the netting material and the second of the reinforced portion (i.e. second
   reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally within a second region being an
   opposing outer 30% of the width of the netting material.
15
   In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and the first reinforced
   portion is located to extend longitudinally within a first region being an outer 20% of the
   width of the netting material and the second of the reinforced portion (i.e. second
   reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally within a second region being an
20 opposing outer 20% of the width of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and the first reinforced
   portion is located to extend longitudinally within a first region being an outer 10% of the
   width of the netting material and the second of the reinforced portion (i.e. second
25 reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally within a second region being an
   opposing outer 10% of the width of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material has a width dimension and the first reinforced
   portion is located to extend longitudinally within a first region being an outer 5% of the
30 width of the netting material and the second of the reinforced portion (i.e. second
   reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally within a second region being an
   opposing outer 5% of the width of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the second of the reinforced portion is located at or adjacent a
35 transverse or longitudinal edge of said netting material.

                                               -5
   In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion is located at or adjacent, or within
   4m of, a longitudinal edge of the netting material and a second of the reinforced portion is
   located at or adjacent, or within 4m of, an opposing longitudinal edge of the netting
   material.
 5
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises a second of the reinforced portion
   located otherwise than at or adjacent a longitudinal edge of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises a second of the reinforced portion
10 located along or near a longitudinal centre of the netting material between its longitudinal
   edges.
   In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion is located inset from a longitudinal
   edge such that said netting material comprises a longitudinal flap located outside of the
15 reinforced portion.
   In some embodiments the longitudinal flap is between 5cm and 1.5m wide.
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises a second of the reinforcing portion,
20 said second of the reinforcing portion located inset from an opposing longitudinal edge
   such that said netting material comprises a second longitudinal flap located outside of the
   second reinforced portion.
   In some embodiments the second longitudinal flap is between 5cm and 1.5m wide.
25
   In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion is located at a longitudinal edge
   of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises a second of the reinforced portion
30 located at an opposing longitudinal edge of the netting material.
   In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion is at least 5, or 10, or 20, or 30,
   or 50, or 100, or 150, or 200 meters long.
35 In some embodiments the at least one reinforced portion extends for at least 80% of the
   length, or width, of the netting material.

                                                  -6
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises more than 2 of the reinforced
   portion.
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises a third of the reinforced portion
 5 extending longitudinally between said first reinforced portion and said second reinforced
   portion.
   In some embodiments the netting material comprises a fourth of the reinforced portion
   extending longitudinally between said first reinforced portion and said second reinforced
10 portion.
   In some embodiments the main portion and/or the reinforced portion has a knit or weave
   pattern comprised of diamond, square, hexagonal or triangular shaped apertures.
15 In some embodiments the main portion has a knit or weave pattern comprised of diamond,
   square, or hexagonal apertures having an average size of between about 3mm and about
   30mm, or between about 3mm and about 24mm, or between about 3 and about 10mm,
   said size being measured between the closest two opposing sides of said apertures.
20 In some embodiments the main portion has a knit or weave pattern comprising a pillar
   knitted construction, pillars of the pillar knitted construction arranged longitudinally along
   the netting material.
   In some embodiments the pillars are spaced apart by between about 4mm and 32mm, or
25 between about 6mm and 24mm, or between about 8mm and about 24mm, or between
   about 12mm and about 20mm, or by about 4mm, or about 8mm, or about 12mm, or about
   16mm, or about 20mm, or about 24mm.
   In some embodiments the reinforced portion has a knit or weave pattern comprised of
30 diamond, square, or hexagonal apertures having an average size of less than 8mm, or
   6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.
   In some embodiments the reinforced portion has a knit or weave pattern comprising a
   pillar knitted construction, pillars of the pillar knitted construction arranged longitudinally
35 along the netting material.

                                                -7
   In some embodiments the pillars are spaced apart by less than about 12mm, 10mm, or
   8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.
   In some embodiments the main portion of the netting is formed by a first knitted or woven
 5 construction forming the apertures, and
                  the reinforced portion is formed by a second knitted or woven construction
   forming the first and second longitudinal rows of fastening features.
   In some embodiments the second knitted or woven construction comprises a knit or weave
10 pattern repeated side-by-side.
   In some embodiments the second knitted or woven construction is a knit pattern
   comprising a pillar knitted construction, pillars of the pillar knitted construction arranged
   longitudinally along the netting material, and the fastening features are eyelets formed
15 between two adjacent pillars.
   In some embodiments a spacing between pillars in the pillar knitted construction is less
   than 12mm, or 10mm, or 8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.
20 In some embodiments the second knit or weave construction is a knit construction
   comprised of diamond, square, hexagonal apertures having an average size of less than
   8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.
   In some embodiments the reinforced region comprises a comprises a higher density knit
25 construction extending the length and either side of the rows of eyelets.
   In some embodiments the first knitted or woven construction comprises a first knit or
   weave pattern and the second knitted or woven construction comprises a second knit or
   weave pattern, and the density of the second knit or weave pattern is higher than the
30 density of the first knit or weave pattern.
   In some embodiments the first knitted or woven construction comprises one or more of
   hexagonal, diamond or triangular apertures.
35 In some embodiments the fastening features of the reinforced portion or portions are
   eyelets.

                                                 -8
   In some embodiments the strength of the second knitted or woven construction is greater
   than the strength of the first knitted or woven construction.
   In some embodiments threads of the first knitted or woven construction comprise a first
 5 strand and threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise a said first strand
   and at least one additional strand.
   In some embodiments threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise one
   additional strand compared to the threads of the first knitted or woven construction.
10
   In some embodiments threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise more
   than one additional strand.
   In some embodiments threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise two
15 additional strands.
   In some embodiments the additional strand has the same weight and material as the first
   strand.
20 In some embodiments the additional strand is of greater denier than the first strand.
   In some embodiments a cross sectional area of a said additional strand is at least twice
   the cross sectional area of the first strand.
25 In some embodiments the weight of the first strand is 100 to 400 denier and the weight of
   a said additional strand is 200 to 1000 denier.
   In some embodiments the weight of the first strand is 200 to 300 denier and the weight of
   a said additional strand is 400 to 600 denier.
30
   In some embodiments the weight of a said additional strand is at least twice the weight of
   the first strand.
   In some embodiments threads of the first knitted or woven construction and the second
35 knitted or woven construction comprise a single first strand.

                                               -9
   In some embodiments threads of the first knitted or woven construction comprise a single
   strand and threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise two of said
   strands.
 5 In some embodiments the first knitted or woven construction and the second knitted or
   woven construction are knitted from the same type of thread comprising at least one
   strand.
   In some embodiments the thread comprises a single strand.
10
   In some embodiments the strand has a denier of 200 to 600, or 250, or 300, or 350 , or
   400, or 450, or 500.
   In some embodiments the threads of the first knitted or woven construction comprise a
15 single first strand and threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise a
   single second strand, and the second strand is of greater denier than the first strand.
   In some embodiments the weight of the first strand is 200 to 300 denier and the weight of
   the second strand is 400 to 600 denier.
20
   In some embodiments the weight of the first strand is 250 denier and the weight of the
   second strand is 500 denier.
   In some embodiments each said strand is a monofilament.
25
   In some embodiments the netting material is one of a bird netting, an insect netting, a
   shade netting, a wind screen netting and a hail protection netting.
   In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a plant or fruit or vegetables
30 thereon which comprises providing over and/or adjacent the plant as bird netting, insect
   netting, shade netting, wind screen netting, or hail protection netting a netting material as
   described in any of the aspects or embodiments set out above.
35 In some embodiments the netting material is bird netting.        In some embodiments the
   netting material is insect netting. In some embodiments the netting is shade netting. In
   some embodiments the netting material is wind screen netting. In some embodiments the

                                                - 10
   netting material is hail protection netting. A bird netting comprises apertures that are of
   sufficiently small size to prevent birds passing through the netting. An insect netting
   comprises apertures that are of sufficiently small size to prevent insects passing through
   the netting. A shade netting comprises apertures that are of sufficiently small size to
 5 provide shading from the sun to an area being protected by the netting material.           For
   example a shade netting may comprise a cover factor (defined below) of up to 90%. A
   wind screen netting comprises apertures that are of sufficiently small size to reduce the
   speed or force of wind or breeze. For example a wind screen netting may comprise a cover
   factor of up to 90%.     A hail protection netting comprises apertures that are of sufficient
10 size to prevent hail stones penetrating the netting to cause damage beneath the netting.
   Such a netting material is constructed of a sufficient strength to prevent hail stones from
   breaking through the netting at expected velocities or reduce the speed to a more
   acceptable non damaging level.
15 The term "netting" means material having a cover factor (as herein defined) of up to 90%
   but typically less than 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10% or 5%
   or 2%.
   The phrase "cover factor" means the percentage of the overall area of the netting material
20 which comprises knitted monofilament, yarn, or tape or a combination, forming the netting
   itself, judged from perpendicular to the plane of the netting when laid out flat, as opposed
   to air space in between the netting. Thus if a netting has a cover factor of 30% then the
   air space through the netting would be 70% of the total area of the netting.
25 The term "lay-in yarn", as used herein, unless the context suggests otherwise, is a yarn
   that is knitted or woven through at least some of the yarn intersections and/or connecting
   portions defining the primary apertures that make up the mesh construction of a knitted
   netting material, said yarn intersections and/or connecting portions forming the basic knit
   structure of such material, and is additional to, rather than a basic structural element of
30 said basic knit structure. Optionally, the lay-in yarn is not looped back on itself more than
   180 degrees in the primary direction of travel or knitting direction. Sometimes the lay-in
   yarn may loop more than 180 degrees in the primary direction of travel of knitting direction,
   for example, it may loop 3600. If the lay-in yarn is removed, the net's inherent structure
   will stay intact. It is supported by the basic yarn knitted structure. A lay-in yarn is also
35 referred to herein as a "secondary yarn". A lay-in yarn may be arranged to cross a primary
   aperture (term defined below), or may be arranged to follow the perimeter of a primary
   aperture.

                                                - 11
   The term "primary aperture" is used in this specification. The term may be used in the
   context of knit patterns comprising a lay-in yarn, and may be used to distinguish the
   apertures of the basic knit structure (i.e. ignoring lay-in yarns) from the apertures of the
 5 knit structure formed by the lay-in yarns. For example, when considering a diamond basic
   knit pattern with a lay-in yarn dividing each diamond shaped aperture of the knit pattern
   in half, the primary aperture is the diamond shaped aperture, which is divided by the lay
   in yarn to form two smaller apertures.
10 The term "basic knit structure" is also used in this specification. The term may be used in
   the context of nettings comprising a lay-in yarn(s), and refers to the knit pattern ignoring
   any lay-in(s).
   The term "comprising" as used in this specification and means "consisting at least in part
15 of". When interpreting each statement in this specification and claims that includes the
   term "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be
   present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the
   same manner.
20 As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
   As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of the noun.
   To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction and
   widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest themselves
   without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
25 disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in
   any sense limiting.
   The embodiments described above may also be said broadly to consist in the parts,
   elements and features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application,
   individually or collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts,
30 elements or features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known
   equivalents in the art to which the embodiments relates, such known equivalents are
   deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
   The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
   following gives examples only.

                                                - 12
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5 The invention is further described by way of example with reference to the accompanying
   schematic drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts or features, and
   in which:
           Figure 1 shows a section of one form of knitted diamond monofilament netting,
10 having a cover factor of approximately 10-12%
           Figure 2 shows a section of another form of knitted diamond monofilament netting,
   with four cross over yarns having a cover factor of approximately 22-28%
           Figure 3 shows a section of another form of knitted diamond monofilament netting,
   having a cover factor of approximately 22-30%
15         Figure 4 shows a section of one form of knitted hexagonal monofilament netting,
   having a cover factor of approximately 20-25%
           Figure 5 shows a section of a form of knitted pillar based monofilament netting,
   having a cover factor of approximately 20-30%,
           Figure 6 shows a section of another form of knitted pillar based monofilament
20 netting, having a cover factor of approximately 18-22%,
           Figure 7 shows a section of one form of woven monofilament netting, having a cover
   factor of approximately 20-25%,
           Figure 8 shows a section of one form of woven monofilament netting, having a cover
   factor of approximately 50-55%,
25         Figure 9 shows a netting material according to some embodiments of the present
   invention with a reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features positioned
   centrally in the netting material and reinforced regions each comprising a double row of
   fastening features positioned at each longitudinal edge of the material.
           Figure 10A is a part view of the netting material of Figure 9 showing the netting
30 material in use with central and longitudinal reinforced portions folded to form double
   layered rows of eyelets for securing the netting material in place over a plant.
           Figure 10B is a cross-sectional view of the netting material of Figure 10A.
           Figure 11A is part view of the netting material of Figure 9 installed in an alternative
   manner to that illustrated in Figure 10A.
35         Figure 11B is a cross-sectional view of the netting material of Figure 11A.
           Figure 12A is a part view of another netting material in use with a non-central
   reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features folded to form a double-

                                               - 13
   layered row of eyelets for securing the netting material in place over a plant, and double
   layered rows of eyelets close to each longitudinal edge.
            Figure 12B shows the netting material of Figure 12A in cross-section.
            Figure 13 shows a netting material according to some embodiments of the present
 5 invention with regions each comprising a double row of fastening features positioned at
   each longitudinal edge of the material. The netting is of a knit construction comprising
   hexagonal apertures.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
10
   Netting material of the invention may be knitted or woven from one or more threads, for
   example warp threads and/or weft threads.         Each thread may comprise one or more
   strands.    A strand may be a synthetic monofilament, a yarn (natural or synthetic fibre
   multifilament), or a tape. Tape may for example be formed by extruding synthetic sheet
15 material from a resin, and then cutting the extruded sheet material to form long tapes of
   typically 1mm to 5mm of width.      The multiple strands of a thread may or may not be
   twisted or held together prior to being knitted into a netting material.
   Figures 1 to 8 show by way of example sections of netting material.
20
   Figure 1 shows a section of one form of knitted diamond monofilament netting. The netting
   has a cover factor of approximately 10-12%. The netting is knitted in a diamond structure
   of around 18mm across.
25 Figure 2 shows a section of another form of knitted diamond monofilament netting with
   four cross over yarns. The netting has a cover factor of approximately 22-28%. The netting
   is knitted in a diamond structure of around 16 mm across but with four additional strands
   of monofilament across the diamond.
30 Figure 3 shows a section of a form of knitted diamond shaped monofilament netting. The
   netting has a cover factor of approximately 22-30%. The netting is knitted in a diamond
   shaped structure of around 4-5 mm across.
   Figure 4 shows a section of one form of knitted hexagonal monofilament netting. The
35 netting has a cover factor of approximately 20-25%. The netting is knitted in a hexagonal
   structure of around 8 mm across the hexagonal apertures.

                                                 - 14
   Figure 5 shows a section of a form of knitted pillar based monofilament netting. The netting
   has a cover factor of approximately 20-30%. The pillars are joined by knitted
   monofilaments across the pillars.
 5 Figure 6 shows a section of another form of knitted pillar based monofilament netting. The
   netting has a cover factor of approximately 18-22%. The pillars are similar size to Figure
   5 and are joined by monofilaments that loop through the pillars.
   Figure 7 shows a section of one form of woven monofilament netting. The netting has a
10 cover factor of approximately 20-25%, with small apertures.
   Figure 8 shows a section of one form woven monofilament netting. The netting has a cover
   factor of approximately 50-55%, with smaller apertures.
15 Various embodiments of a netting material according to the present invention are described
   with reference to Figures 9 to 13.
   In some embodiments netting of the invention may comprise air space apertures through
   the material of widest dimension about 30mm. In other embodiments netting of the
20 invention may comprise air space apertures through the material of widest dimension
   about 20mm. In some embodiments netting of the invention may comprise apertures
   through the material of widest dimension in the range 1-30mm.
   The netting may be supported over the plant(s) and/or as a vertical and/or angled wall or
25 walls near the plant(s), or on the ground itself, by for example cables or wires between
   posts positioned along the rows of plants in a garden, field crop, orchard or vineyard, or is
   draped   over the plant(s) as bird netting, insect netting (for repelling for example
   mosquitoes, or as for example bee exclusion netting), shade netting, windbreak netting,
   or hail protection. Netting may be placed near plants to protect for example annual plants,
30 perennial plants, fruit trees, or grape vines, vegetable plants, from birds, insects, excessive
   sun, wind, or hail.
   Cables or wires or ropes or other securing devices or fasteners may be coupled to the
   netting to anchor the netting to the ground or support structure. For securing the netting
35 material in place, eyelets may be integrally knitted into the netting material. Cables or
   wires or ropes or other securing devices or fasteners tie to or pass through or hook or
   otherwise engage with the eyelets.

                                                 - 15
   The netting material comprises at least one reinforced region (31 or 25 or 25) comprising
   a double row of fastening features. The reinforced region comprising a double row of
   fastening features may be a longitudinal region of the netting material located between
 5 the longitudinal edges of the netting. Figure 9 is an example of a netting comprising the
   invention. In the embodiment of Figure 9, the netting material comprises three reinforced
   regions each comprising a double row of fastening features. In Figure 9, one such region
   is a longitudinal central region of the netting material and the other two regions are located
   along opposing longitudinal edges of the netting material.
10
   In some embodiments, the netting material comprises only one reinforced region
   comprising a double row of fastening features.
   In some embodiments the reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features
15 is located at or adjacent a longitudinal edge of a netting material.
   In some embodiments the reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features
   is located centrally across the width between two longitudinal edges of a netting material,
   or located closer to one longitudinal edge than the other.
20
   In some embodiments, the reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features
   may be a region extending across the width of the netting material, i.e. forming a
   transverse region.
25 Each reinforced region 31, 21, 21 comprising a double row of fastening features comprises
   two rows of fastening features 22 extending the length of the region, a first row 35A and
   a second corresponding row 35B.
   The fastening features may be integrally knitted or woven into the netting material. The
30 fastening features may be formed in a reinforced portion or portions of the netting material.
   For example, and as illustrated in Figures 9 to 13, in some embodiments the fastening
   features are eyelets. The eyelets are apertures formed in a reinforced portion or portions
   of the netting. For example, in Figure 9, the netting material 10 comprises reinforced
   longitudinal central and edge regions 31, 21, 21 in which rows of eyelets 22 are formed.
35 Each edge region 21 is at or adjacent to a longitudinal edge of the netting material. The
   eyelets 22 are knitted in the reinforced portion or portions of the netting so that the eyelets
   are of a higher strength compared to the apertures 12 in the main portion 11 of the netting.

                                               - 16
   The fastening features may be loops of thread integrally knitted or woven in the reinforced
   portion or portions of the netting.   The loops of thread may extend out from a general
   plane of the netting material. Fasteners such as hooks or ring clips may extend through
   the loops of thread to secure the netting material to a support structure. The fastening
 5 features integrally formed with the knitted or woven edge region may be areas of high
   density weave or knit through which a fastener such as a hook or loop may be pushed. In
   a woven netting, the fastening feature may be slots or gaps arranged longitudinally formed
   by a missing warp thread or threads, the slots or gaps spaced apart by warp threads.
10 The fastening features may be spaced apart along a longitudinal length of the netting or
   transverse to a longitudinal length of the netting. For example the fastening features may
   be spaced apart by a distance of 2mm to 300mm, or 10mm to 200mm, or 10mm to
   100mm, or 10mm to 50mm, or 10mm to 40mm, or 10mm to 30mm, or 10mm to 20mm.
   In some embodiments the spacing of the fastening features is 10mm, or 11mm, or 12mm,
15 or 13mm, or 14mm, or 15mm.
   In some embodiments the fastening features are eyelets formed as narrow openings, for
   example an eyelet may have a width of 2mm to 5mm wide and a length of 2mm to 20mm.
   In some embodiments the length of the eyelet is aligned with a longitudinal direction of
20 the netting material as shown in Figure 9. In other embodiments the length of the eyelet
   is aligned transverse to a longitudinal length of the netting. In some embodiments the
   eyelets have a length of 10mm, or 11mm, or 12mm, or 13mm, or 14mm or 15mm.                In
   some embodiments the length of the eyelets is equal to the spacing between adjacent
   eyelets.
25
   To reinforce the reinforced portion or portions 31, 21, 21 of the netting, the reinforced
   portion or portions may be knitted with a different knitted construction compared to the
   unreinforced portion of the netting which forms the main part 11 of the netting for
   protecting plants. The main portion 11 comprises a first knitted construction comprising
30 knitted apertures 12. The reinforced portion or portions 31, 21, 21 of the netting comprises
   a second knitted construction comprising knitted fastening features 22.
   To strengthen the reinforced portion or portions of the netting, in some embodiments the
   reinforced portion or portions may comprise a different knit or weave pattern to the main
35 portion of the netting material.    For example, the main portion 11 of the netting may
   comprise a first knit or weave pattern and the reinforced portion or portions 31, 21, 21
   may comprise a second knit or weave pattern.        For example, the density of the second

                                                 - 17
   pattern may be higher than the density of the first pattern to strengthen the reinforced
   portion or portions to provide eyelets 22 with increased strength compared to the apertures
   12 of the main part of the netting. For example, the reinforced portion or portions of the
   netting may comprise a knitted pillar pattern with pillars or ribs spaced closely together,
 5 and the main portion of the netting may comprise a knitted pillar pattern with pillars 13
   spaced further apart. The spacing between pillars in the reinforced portion or portions of
   the netting of Figure 9 may be less than 12mm, 10mm, or 8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or
   4mm, or 3mm, or 2 mm, or 1mm. The eyelets 22 may be formed between two adjacent
   pillars of the reinforced portion or portions of the netting. The reinforced portion or portions
10 of the netting may comprise rectangular apertures. Either the reinforced portion or portions
   and/or the main portion may be of a construction comprising a knit or weave pattern
   comprising one or more of hexagonal, diamond or triangular apertures. Either the
   reinforced portion or portions and/or the main portion may be of a construction disclosed
   in NZ patent number 587761, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
15 Either the reinforced portion or portions and/or the main portion may comprise a lay-in
   yarn. In some embodiments the reinforced portion or portions of the netting may comprise
   a knitted pillar or weave pattern and the main portion of the netting may comprise a non
   pillar knit or weave pattern, for example comprising one or more of hexagonal, diamond
   or triangular apertures. In a woven netting material the reinforced edge region may
20 comprise high density areas formed by warp tapes spaced closer together than warp tapes
   of the main portion of the netting. Fastening features may be formed by a gap between
   high density areas in the reinforced portion or portions where no warp thread is provided.
   Weft threads extend across the fastening gap. Fastening features are slots or gaps between
   the weft threads in the gap between adjacent high density areas formed by warp tapes
25 spaced closely together.
   In some embodiments the main portion of the netting and the reinforced portion or portions
   of the netting comprising fastening features may both be knitted or woven from the same
   type of thread. In some embodiments, reinforcement of the reinforced portion or portions
30 of the netting is achieved by using a different knit or weave pattern to the main portion of
   the netting only.
   To strengthen the reinforced portion or portions of the netting,             in addition to or
   alternatively to a different knit or weave pattern to the main portion of the netting, the
35 reinforced portion or portions may comprise threads with an additional number of strands
   compared to threads of the main portion of the netting. For example, the main portion of
   the netting comprising the first knitted or woven construction may be knitted with threads

                                                - 18
   comprising a single strand, and the reinforced portion or portions comprising the second
   knitted or woven construction may be knitted with threads comprising two or more strands.
   In some embodiments, threads of the first construction may comprise a single strand and
   threads of the second construction may comprise three said strands. Threads of the first
 5 construction may comprise a first strand or strands and threads of the second construction
   may comprise a said first strand or strands and one or more additional strands. For
   example, threads of the second knitted or woven construction may comprise one additional
   strand, or more than one additional strand, or two additional strands.
10 A said additional strand may have the same weight and material as the first strand. For
   example, threads of the first knitted or woven construction may comprise a single first
   strand and threads of the second knitted or woven construction comprise two said first
   strands.
15 A said additional strand may be heavier than the first strand. For example, a cross sectional
   area of a said additional strand may be at least twice the cross sectional area or thickness
   of the first strand.  For example, threads of the first knitted or woven construction may
   comprise a first strand having a first cross sectional area and threads of the second
   construction may comprise a said first strand and a second strand comprising a second
20 cross sectional area that is at least twice the first cross sectional area. The weight of the
   first strand may be 100 to 400 denier and the weight of a said additional strand may be
   200 to 1000 denier. For example, the weight of the first strand may 250 denier and the
   weight of a said additional strand may be 500 denier. The weight of a said additional strand
   may be at least twice the weight of the first strand.
25
   To strengthen the reinforced portion or portions of the netting, in addition to or
   alternatively to a different knit or weave pattern to the main portion of the netting, the
   reinforced portion or portions may be knitted or woven using a stronger or heavier thread.
   For example, the main portion of the netting comprising the first construction may be
30 knitted or woven with threads comprising a single 250 denier strand, and the reinforced
   portion or portions comprising the second construction may be knitted or woven with
   threads comprising a single 500 denier strand.
   In some embodiments, a reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features
35 may be positioned between the centre of the netting material and a longitudinal edge of
   the netting material. That is, a reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening
   features may be positioned away from longitudinal edges and closer to one longitudinal

                                                - 19
   edge than the other longitudinal edge, for example as shown in Figure 12A or 12B. In some
   embodiments, a reinforced region may be positioned to extend longitudinally along a length
   of netting material in an area of the width of the netting material other than an outer 10%,
   or outer 20%, of the width of the netting material.
 5
   The reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features may be positioned at
   or adjacent to an edge of the netting material. Alternatively, the reinforced region
   comprising a double row of fastening features may be positioned inset from an edge such
   that, in use, a flap of netting material is formed outside of the reinforced region. For
10 example, the reinforced region may extend the length of and be inset from a longitudinal
   edge of the material, such that a flap of netting is formed by the portion of netting between
   the reinforced portion and the very edge of the longitudinal edge. The flap may extend the
   length of the reinforced edge. The flap formed may be of unreinforced netting material.
   The edge that the reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features is inset
15 from may be a longitudinal edge of the netting material such that a flap extending along
   the length of the netting material is formed outside of the reinforced region comprising a
   double row of fastening features. A similar construction may be mirrored on an opposing
   longitudinal edge such that, in use, the netting material comprises similar opposing flaps
   extending either side of its length. In some embodiments the edge that the reinforced
20 region comprising a double row of fastening features is inset from                 may be a
   transverse/latitudinal edge of the netting material.
   The reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features may be positioned at
   the edge of the netting material. Again the edge may be a longitudinal edge.              The
25 longitudinal fold 38 may form or be located at a longitudinal edge of the netting material.
   The reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features may be repeated
   across a width of a netting material as many times as is desired to provide a series of
   longitudinally extending attachment locations, thereby meeting the needs of a variety of
30 different installation forms. The reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening
   features, or a plurality of such regions, may alternatively, or additionally, extend across
   the width of a netting material, such that a transversely extending region or regions of
   reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features are formed.
35 In some embodiments, a netting material of the invention may comprise a reinforced
   region comprising a double row of fastening features, or a plurality of such regions, and
   one or more reinforced region or regions comprising a single row of fastening features.

                                               - 20
   With reference to the embodiment of Figure 9, in use, the reinforced region comprising a
   double row of fastening features may be folded about longitudinal lines 37, 38 and 39 to
   form a double-layered areas 40, 41, 41 as shown in Figures 10A and 10B. In folding the
 5 netting to form double-layered areas 40, 41, 41, the two corresponding rows of eyelets
   35A, 35B in the reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features of the
   netting material are brought together so that they form a single double-layered row 36 of
   eyelets 35A, 35B. In use, a wire 50 may be threaded along the row of double-layered
   eyelets for hanging the netting from the double-layered areas 40, 41, 41 over plants from
10 a support structure. In use, the wire 50 may be threaded along the row of double-layered
   eyelets to maintain the two rows of eyelets 35A and 35B together.
   The netting material may comprise a plurality of reinforced regions each comprising a
   double row of fastening features as illustrated in Figure 9. The double rows of eyelets 21,
15 21, and 31 provide three longitudinal attachment locations 40, 41, 41 for securing the
   netting material in place over plants. One attachment location 41, 41 comprising a
   longitudinal double row of eyelets is provided at or adjacent each longitudinal edge of the
   netting material, and a third attachment location 40 comprising a double row of eyelets is
   provided between the longitudinal edges of the netting material. In Figures 10A to 11B the
20 third attachment location comprising double-layered row of eyelets is provided at a centre
   region of the netting material. Figures 12A and 12B illustrate another example netting
   material where the generally centrally located reinforced region comprising a double row
   of fastening features (the third attachment location) is located closer to one longitudinal
   edge than the other longitudinal edge.
25
   As mentioned above, the netting material may comprise more than one reinforced region
   comprising a double row of fastening features. For example, a netting material may
   comprise two reinforced regions comprising a double row of fastening features, each
   reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features positioned equidistant from
30 the centre of the netting material either side of the centre of the netting material. Such
   reinforced regions may be inset from a longitudinal edge, such that a flap is formed by a
   portion of netting between the reinforced region and the very edge of the longitudinal edge.
   One or more of the reinforced region may be inset from a longitudinal edge by between
   1cm to 6m, and thereby making a flap having a width of similar size. One or more of the
35 reinforced region may be inset from a longitudinal edge by between 1cm and 5m, or 1cm
   and 4m, or 1cm and 3m, or 1cm and 2m, or 1cm and 1m, or 1cm and 50cm, or 1cm and
   30cm, or 1cm and 8cm. One or more of the reinforced region may be inset from a

                                               -21
   longitudinal edge by between 10cm and 6m, or 10cm and 5m, or 10cm and 4m, or 10cm
   and 3m, or 10cm and 2m, or 10cm and 1m, or 10cm and 50cm, or 10cm and 30cm.
   As described above, in folding the netting to form double-layered areas 40, 41, 41 the two
 5 corresponding rows of eyelets 35A, 35B in each reinforced region comprising a double row
   of fastening features of the netting material are brought together so that they form a single
   double-layered row 36, 25 of eyelets 35A, 35B.           In Figures 10A and 11A a central
   longitudinally extending reinforced area 40 is illustrated as a longitudinal region folded on
   fold lines 37, 38 and 39. However, in use, the double layers of area 40 may separate other
10 than at the double-layered eyelets, the wire 50 or other fasteners 51 passing through the
   double-layered eyelets retaining two layers together only at the double-layered eyelets.
   Alternatively, such an area 40 may form a flap as illustrated by joining fold lines 37 and
   39 together, for example by stitching, tying, knitting or bonding together. When the region
   is an edge region such as regions 21 in Figure 9, the reinforced region may be folded about
15 longitudinal fold line 38. Optionally, the two layers formed by the fold can be joined
   together with stitching or other joining means. When stitched, the stitching may form a
   line of stitching extending along the length of the longitudinal edge, as in the manner of a
   hem, with the rows of eyelets located to align in the hem.
20 Loops 51, for example wire loops, are illustrated in Figure 11A passing through the
   doubled-layer rows 36 of eyelets. Alternatively or additionally, the loops may extend
   around a wire threaded through the doubled-layer row of eyelets 36. The netting may be
   hung from a support wire 52 passing through the loops 51. The longitudinal edges of the
   netting may be similarly supported, by loops 51 through the eyelets 22 or other fastening
25 feature of the reinforced edge portion and/or by loops 51 extending around a wire threaded
   through the row of eyelets 22.
   In some embodiments a central reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening
   features may have a different knitted or woven construction (third knitted or woven
30 construction) to a reinforced region comprising a double row of fastening features at a
   longitudinal edge of the netting material (second knitted or woven construction). In some
   embodiments, the threads of the reinforced region or regions may comprise a heavier
   denier than those of the main portion. In some embodiments the threads of the reinforced
   region or regions may comprise additional strands compared to the main portion.
35
   In some embodiments the main portion of the netting and the reinforced portions of the
   netting may all be knitted from the same type of thread, the increased strength of the

                                              - 22
   reinforced portions compared to the main portion of the netting achieved by using a
   different knit or weave pattern to the main portion of the netting only.
   Figure 13 shows a netting material according to some embodiments of the present
 5 invention with regions each comprising a double row 35A, 35B of fastening features 22
   positioned close to each longitudinal edge of the material. The netting is of a knit
   construction comprising hexagonal apertures 12. The reinforced region 21 comprising each
   double row 35A, 35B of eyelets 22 comprises reinforcing in the form of additional chain
   stitching and/or cross filaments 26 extending the length of each row 35A, 35B of eyelets
10 and either side of each row 35A, 35B of eyelets.
   The foregoing describes the invention including a preferred form thereof, alterations and
   modifications as will be obvious to those skilled in the art are intended to be incorporated
   in the scope hereof, as defined in the accompanying claims.

                                            -23
CLAIMS:
1.       A netting material formed by threads knitted or woven together, the netting
material comprising:
         a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures, and
         at least one reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven fastening
features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first
row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart side-by
side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold
line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening features
and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of
fastening features, the double-layered row of fastening features providing an attachment
location for securing the netting material to a support structure,
and wherein said material is not a netting material having a length dimension and a width
dimension smaller than the length dimension, the netting material formed by threads
knitted or woven together, the netting material comprising:
         a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures,
         a reinforced edge portion at or adjacent each longitudinal edge of the netting
material comprising a longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features, and
         a reinforced intermediate portion between the reinforced edge portions comprising
a first longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features and a corresponding second
longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first longitudinal row of
fastening features and the second longitudinal row of fastening features spaced apart side
by-side in a lateral direction of the netting so that, in use, folding the reinforced
intermediate portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold line between the two rows of
fastening features brings the first longitudinal row of fastening features and the second
longitudinal row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of fastening
features, the double-layered row of fastening features and the row of fastening features of
the reinforced edge portions providing three longitudinal attachment locations for securing
the netting material to a support structure.
2.       A netting material formed by threads knitted or woven together, the netting
material comprising:
         a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures, and
         at least one reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven fastening
features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first
row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart side-by-

                                            - 24
side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold
line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening features
and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of
fastening features, the double-layered row of fastening features providing an attachment
location for securing the netting material to a support structure,
        and wherein the netting material has a width dimension and the reinforced portion
is located in an outer 30% of the width of the netting material.
3.      A netting material formed by threads knitted or woven together, the netting
material comprising:
        a main portion comprising knitted or woven apertures, and
        at least one reinforced portion comprising a first row of knitted or woven fastening
features and a corresponding second row of knitted or woven fastening features, the first
row of fastening features and the second row of fastening features spaced apart side-by
side so that, in use, folding the reinforced portion of the netting along a longitudinal fold
line between the two rows of fastening features brings the first row of fastening features
and the second row of fastening features together to form a double-layered row of
fastening features, the double-layered row of fastening features providing an attachment
location for securing the netting material to a support structure,
        and wherein the netting does not comprise a reinforced edge portion comprising a
single longitudinal row of knitted or woven fastening features at or adjacent each
longitudinal edge of the netting material.
4.      A netting material as claimed in either of claims 1 or 3 wherein the wherein the
netting material has a width dimension and said at least one reinforced portion is located
within an outer 30% of the width of the netting material.
5.      A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the netting material
has a width dimension and said at least one reinforced portion is located within an outer
20% of the width of the netting material.
6.      A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the netting material
has a width dimension and said at least one reinforced portion is located within an outer
10% of the width of the netting material.

                                             - 25
7.       A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the netting material
has a width dimension and said at least one reinforced portion is located within an outer
5% of the width of the netting material.
8.       A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said at least one
reinforced portion is located at or adjacent a transverse or longitudinal edge of said netting
material.
9.       A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said netting material
has a length dimension and a width dimension smaller, or much smaller, than the length
dimension.
10.      A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein said at least one
reinforced portion is a first reinforced portion, and comprising a second of the reinforced
portion.
11.      A netting material as claimed in claim 10 wherein the netting material has a width
dimension and wherein the first reinforced portion is located to extend longitudinally within
a first region being an outer 30% of the width of the netting material and the second of
the reinforced portion (i.e. second reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally
within a second region being an opposing outer 30% of the width of the netting material.
12.      A netting material as claimed in claim 10 wherein the netting material has a width
dimension and wherein the first reinforced portion is located to extend longitudinally within
a first region being an outer 20% of the width of the netting material and the second of
the reinforced portion (i.e. second reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally
within a second region being an opposing outer 20% of the width of the netting material.
13.      A netting material as claimed in claim 10 wherein the netting material has a width
dimension and wherein the first reinforced portion is located to extend longitudinally within
a first region being an outer 10% of the width of the netting material and the second of
the reinforced portion (i.e. second reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally
within a second region being an opposing outer 10% of the width of the netting material.
14.      A netting material as claimed in claim 10 wherein the netting material has a width
dimension and wherein the first reinforced portion is located to extend longitudinally within
a first region being an outer 5% of the width of the netting material and the second of the

                                              - 26
reinforced portion (i.e. second reinforced portion) is located to extend longitudinally within
a second region being an opposing outer 5% of the width of the netting material.
15.     A netting material as claimed in claim 10 wherein the second of the reinforced
portion is located at or adjacent a transverse or longitudinal edge of said netting material.
16.     A netting material as claimed in claim 9 and wherein said at least one reinforced
portion is located at or adjacent, or within 4m of, a longitudinal edge of the netting material
        and a second of the reinforced portion is located at or adjacent, or within 4m of, an
opposing longitudinal edge of the netting material.
17.     A netting material as claimed in claim 9 comprising a second of the reinforced
portion located otherwise than at or adjacent a longitudinal edge of the netting material.
18.     A netting as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 comprising a second of the
reinforced portion located along or near a longitudinal centre of the netting material
between its longitudinal edges.
19.     A netting material as claimed in claim 9 wherein said at least one reinforced portion
is located inset from a longitudinal edge such that said netting material comprises a
longitudinal flap located outside of the reinforced portion.
20.     A netting material as claimed in claim 19 wherein said longitudinal flap is between
5cm and 1.5m wide.
21.     A netting material as claimed in claim 19 comprising a second of the reinforcing
portion, said second of the reinforcing portion located inset from an opposing longitudinal
edge such that said netting material comprises a second longitudinal flap located outside
of the second reinforced portion.
22.     A netting material as claimed in claim 21 wherein said second longitudinal flap is
between 5cm and 1.5m wide.
23.     A netting material as claimed in claim 9 wherein said at least one reinforced portion
is located at a longitudinal edge of the netting material.

                                             - 27
24.     A netting material as claimed in claim 9 or 23 comprising a second of the reinforced
portion located at an opposing longitudinal edge of the netting material.
25.     A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the at least one
reinforced portion is at least 5, or 10, or 20, or 30, or 50, or 100, or 150, or 200 meters
long.
26.     A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the at least one
reinforced portion extends for at least 80% of the length, or width, of the netting material.
27.     A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim comprising more than 2 of the
reinforced portion.
28.     A netting material as claimed in claim 10 comprising a third of the reinforced portion
extending longitudinally between said first reinforced portion and said second reinforced
portion.
29.     A netting material as claimed in claim 28 comprising a fourth of the reinforced
portion extending longitudinally between said first reinforced portion and said second
reinforced portion.
30.     A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the main portion
and/or the reinforced portion has a knit or weave pattern comprised of diamond, square,
hexagonal or triangular shaped apertures.
31.     A netting material as claimed in claim 30 wherein the main portion has a knit or
weave pattern comprised of diamond, square, or hexagonal apertures having an average
size of between about 3mm and about 30mm, or between about 3mm and about 24mm,
or between about 3 and about 10mm, said size being measured between the closest two
opposing sides of said apertures.
32.     A netting material as claimed in claim 30 wherein the main portion has a knit or
weave pattern comprising a pillar knitted construction,         pillars of the pillar knitted
construction arranged longitudinally along the netting material.
33.     A netting material as claimed in claim 32 wherein the pillars are spaced apart by
between about 4mm and 32mm, or between about 6mm and 24mm, or between about

                                             - 28
8mm and about 24mm, or between about 12mm and about 20mm, or by about 4mm, or
about 8mm, or about 12mm, or about 16mm, or about 20mm, or about 24mm.
34.     A netting material as claimed in claim 30 wherein the reinforced portion has a knit
or weave pattern comprised of diamond, square, or hexagonal apertures having an average
size of less than 8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.
35.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 33 wherein the reinforced
portion has a knit or weave pattern comprising a pillar knitted construction, pillars of the
pillar knitted construction arranged longitudinally along the netting material.
36.     A netting material as claimed in claim 35 wherein the pillars are spaced apart by
less than about 12mm, 10mm, or 8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or
1mm.
37.     A netting material as claimed any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the main portion of
the netting is formed by a first knitted or woven construction forming the apertures, and
                the reinforced portion is formed by a second knitted or woven construction
forming the first and second longitudinal rows of fastening features.
38.     A netting material as claimed in claim 37 wherein the second knitted or woven
construction comprises a knit or weave pattern repeated side-by-side.
39.     A netting material as claimed in claim 38 wherein the second knitted or woven
construction is a knit pattern comprising a pillar knitted construction, pillars of the pillar
knitted construction arranged longitudinally along the netting material, and the fastening
features are eyelets formed between two adjacent pillars.
40.     A netting material as claimed in claim 39 wherein a spacing between pillars in the
pillar knitted construction is less than 12mm, or 10mm, or 8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or
4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.
41.     A netting as claimed in claim 37 wherein the second knit or weave construction is
a knit construction comprised of diamond, square, hexagonal apertures having an average
size of less than 8mm, or 6mm, or 5mm, or 4mm, or 3mm, or 2mm, or 1mm.

                                            - 29
42.     A netting as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the reinforced region comprises
a comprises a higher density knit construction extending the length and either side of the
rows of eyelets.
43.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 42 wherein the first knitted
or woven construction comprises a first knit or weave pattern and the second knitted or
woven construction comprises a second knit or weave pattern, and the density of the
second knit or weave pattern is higher than the density of the first knit or weave pattern.
44.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 43 wherein the first knitted
or woven construction comprises one or more of hexagonal, diamond or triangular
apertures.
45.     A netting material as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the fastening features
of the reinforced portion or portions are eyelets.
46.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 45 wherein the strength of
the second knitted or woven construction is greater than the strength of the first knitted
or woven construction.
47.     A netting material as claimed in claim 46 wherein threads of the first knitted or
woven construction comprise a first strand and threads of the second knitted or woven
construction comprise a said first strand and at least one additional strand.
48.     A netting material as claimed in claim 46 wherein threads of the second knitted or
woven construction comprise one additional strand compared to the threads of the first
knitted or woven construction.
49.     A netting material as claimed in claim 48 wherein threads of the second knitted or
woven construction comprise more than one additional strand.
50.     A netting material as claimed in claim 48 wherein threads of the second knitted or
woven construction comprise two additional strands.
51.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 50 wherein a said additional
strand has the same weight and material as the first strand.

                                              - 30
52.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 50 wherein a said additional
strand is of greater denier than the first strand.
53.     A netting material as claimed in claim 52 wherein a cross sectional area of a said
additional strand is at least twice the cross sectional area of the first strand.
54.     A netting material as claimed in claim 52 wherein the weight of the first strand is
100 to 400 denier and the weight of a said additional strand is 200 to 1000 denier.
55.     A netting material as claimed in claim 52 wherein the weight of the first strand is
200 to 300 denier and the weight of a said additional strand is 400 to 600 denier.
56.     A netting material as claimed in claim 52 wherein the weight of a said additional
strand is at least twice the weight of the first strand.
57.     A netting material as claimed in claim 37 wherein threads of the first knitted or
woven construction and the second knitted or woven construction comprise a single first
strand.
58.     A netting material as claimed in claim 37 wherein threads of the first knitted or
woven construction comprise a single strand and threads of the second knitted or woven
construction comprise two of said strands.
59.     A netting material as claimed in claim 37 wherein the first knitted or woven
construction and the second knitted or woven construction are knitted from the same type
of thread comprising at least one strand.
60.     A netting material as claimed in claim 59 wherein the thread comprises a single
strand.
61.     A netting material as claimed in claim 60 wherein the strand has a denier of 200 to
600, or 250, or 300, or 350    , or 400, or 450, or 500.
62.     A netting material as claimed in claim 37 wherein the threads of the first knitted or
woven construction comprise a single first strand and threads of the second knitted or
woven construction comprise a single second strand, and the second strand is of greater
denier than the first strand.

                                            -31
63.     A netting material as claimed in claim 62 wherein the weight of the first strand is
200 to 300 denier and the weight of the second strand is 400 to 600 denier.
64.     A netting material as claimed in claim 63 wherein the weight of the first strand is
250 denier and the weight of the second strand is 500 denier.
65.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 64 wherein each said strand
is a monofilament.
66.     A netting material according to any one of claims 1 to 65 wherein the netting
material is one of a bird netting, an insect netting, a shade netting, a wind screen netting
and a hail protection netting.
67.     A method of treating a plant or fruit or vegetables thereon which comprises
providing over and/or adjacent the plant as bird netting, insect netting, shade netting,
wind screen netting, or hail protection netting a netting material according to any one of
claims 1 to 66.
68.     A netting material as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 66, substantially as herein
described with reference to Figures 9 to 13 of the accompanying drawings or any example
thereof.
69.     A method as claimed in claim 67, substantially as herein described with reference
to Figures 9 to 13 of the accompanying drawings or any example thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       6/12

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271D>   <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>
                                      7/12

                                8/12
<removed-date>
                                               35B
                   38
                                               35A
                         21
<removed-apn>
                         11                   11,12
              39
                                                35B
              38
                        31
                                                35A
                                         22
                        37
               38
                         21
                              FIGURE 9

                                                 9/12
<removed-date>                                        31
                                            36
                              40
                        50
<removed-apn>
                   37
                                  39
                                                                            36
                   41
                                                                       25
                                                             41
                                                        50
                                       FIGURE 10A
                                                 38
                                       40
                             37
                                                                  41
              41
                                       FIGURE 10B

                                            10/12
<removed-date>
                                                    52
                                            31                51
                                  36
                        40                                         39
                   37
<removed-apn>
                                                                                       51
                   41                                                             36
                                       41                                    25
                                                         52
                             FIGURE 11A
                                                 38
                             40
                        37
                                                                        41
              41
                             FIGURE 11B

                  11/12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                FIGURE 12A
              FIGURE 12B

                         12/12
<removed-date>
                                         22
                                               35B
              38
                                                   35A
                   21
                                              26
<removed-apn>
                                              11,12
                                               35B
              38
                                                   35A
                   21
                                    22
                                              26
                        FIGURE 13

