ABSTRACT
Graft materials and devices for surgical breast procedures, as well as methods of making
graft devices are described. A medical device is disclosed comprising a sample of
biocompatible material (13b) including a first edge (15b) and a second edge (17b). The first
edge (15b) comprises a convex portion that curves away from the second edge and the
second edge includes a portion that curves away from the first edge. The first and second
edges are joined at an apex (19d-1 9e).
Fig 1.

          1/8
  19a
                   X
15a
                     17a
              1I3a
                             19a
        FIG. 1
    19b
 15a
                      17a
                         19b
        FIG. 2

                                                 -1
             GRAFT MATERIALS FOR SURGICAL BREAST PROCEDURES
[0001]      This application claims priority to United States Patent Application No. 12/506,839,
which was filed on July 21, 2009, and is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002]      Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]      Graft materials can be used in a wide range of surgical procedures to augment
tissue or repair or correct tissue defects. One application of graft materials is the field of
cosmetic and reconstructive surgical breast procedures, a field in which the number of
procedures performed each year continues to increase. Some graft materials are typically
provided to surgeons as a sheet or sheet-like material, which the surgeon can cut to the
desired size and shape before implantation. Graft materials can be very expensive and can
pose challenges for attaining adequate conformance to underlying features of the
implantation site.
[0004]      Accordingly, there is a need for improved graft materials.
SUMMARY
[0005]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a medical device for surgical breast
procedures, comprising:
            a sample of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the
first edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the
first edge,
         wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes , and
         wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
[0006]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a medical device for surgical breast
procedures, comprising:
         a sheet of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,

                                                  -2
         wherein the first edge includes a first vertex and the second edge includes a second
vertex,
         wherein the first vertex of the first edge is separated from a first focus of the first edge
by a first length and the second vertex of the second edge is separated from a second focus
of the second edge by a second length, the second length being greater than the first length,
and
         wherein the sheet of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
[0007]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a medical device for surgical breast
procedures, comprising:
         a sample of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge, wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
         wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x),
and
         wherein the sample of biocompatible material includes a set of perforations across at
least a portion of the sample of biocompatible material.
[0008]           In one aspect, the present invention provides a medical device for surgical
breast procedures, comprising:
         a sample of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge ,
         wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
         wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x),
and
         wherein the sample of biocompatible material is sized and shaped to conform to a
portion of a surface of a breast implant having a predetermined volume.
[0009]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of making one or more
graft devices, comprising:
         providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from the
sheet of biocompatible material,
         wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
         wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes, and

                                                  -3
         wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
[0010]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of making one or more
graft devices, comprising:
         providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from the
sheet of biocompatible material,
         wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
         wherein the first edge includes a first vertex and the second edge includes a second
vertex,
         wherein the first vertex of the first edge is separated from a first focus of the first edge
by a first length and the second vertex of the second edge is separated from a second focus
of the second edge by a second length, the second length being greater than the first length,
and
         wherein the one or more samples are symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
[0011]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of making one or more
graft devices, comprising:
         providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from the
sheet of biocompatible material,
         wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
         wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
         wherein the one or more samples are symmetrical about a vertical axis (x), and
         wherein the one or more samples include a set of perforations across at least a
portion of the sample of biocompatible material.
[0012]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of making one or more
graft devices, comprising:
         providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from the
sheet of biocompatible material,
         wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
         wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,

                                               -4
         wherein the one or more samples are symmetrical about a vertical axis (x), and
         wherein the one or more samples are sized and shaped to conform to a portion of a
surface of a breast implant having a predetermined volume.
[0013]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0014]     According to certain embodiments, a graft material for surgical breast procedures
is disclosed that includes a sample of biocompatible material with a first edge and a second
edge. The first edge has a convex portion that curves away from the second edge, and the
second edge has a convex portion that curves away from the first edge.
[0015]     According to certain embodiments, a graft material for surgical breast procedures
is disclosed that includes a sample of biocompatible material with a set of perforations that
form an arcuate pattern across at least a portion of the sample of biocompatible material.
[0016]     According to certain embodiments, a method of making one or more graft devices
is disclosed. The method includes cutting one or more samples from a sheet of
biocompatible material such that the samples are sized and shaped for conforming to a
portion of a surface of a breast implant.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]      Figure 1 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0018]      Figure 2 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0019]      Figure 3 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0020]      Figure 4 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0021]      Figure 5 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material,
illustrated in relation to a breast implant.
[0022]      Figure 6 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.

                                                 -5
[0023]     Figure 7 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0024]     Figure 8 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0025]     Figure 9 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0026]     Figure 10 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0027]     Figure 11 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0028]     Figure 12 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0029]     Figure 13 is a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft material.
[0030]     Figure 14 is a detailed view of a set of perforations consistent with one exemplary
embodiment of a graft material.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031]     Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments (exemplary
embodiments) of the invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying
drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the
drawings to refer to the same or like parts.
[0032]     In this application, the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically
stated otherwise. In this application, the use of "or" means "and/or" unless stated otherwise.
Furthermore, the use of the term "including," as well as other forms, such as "includes" and
"included," is not limiting. Also, terms such as "element" or "component" encompass both
elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise
more than one subunit, unless specifically stated otherwise. Also, the use of the term
"portion" may include part of a moiety or the entire moiety.
[0033]     The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not
to be construed as limiting the subject matter described. All documents, or portions of
documents, cited in this application, including but not limited to patents, patent applications,
articles, books, and treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety
for any purpose.

                                                 -6
[0034]      The term "graft material," as used herein, generally refers to a material such as, for
example, tissue, processed tissue, or synthetics that can be attached to or inserted into a
bodily part.
[0035]      The terms "sheet" and "sheet-like," as used herein, generally refer to a broad,
relatively thin, surface or layer of a material. Such sheets can, but may not, be relatively
flexible, and may be flat or uniform in thickness or may vary in thickness across their surface.
[0036]      The terms "breast implant" and "implant," as used herein, generally refer to medical
devices that are implanted either under breast tissue or under the chest muscle for breast
augmentation or reconstruction. Such implants can include saline filled or silicone gel
implants, or other implants that provide volume for breast augmentation.
[0037]      The present disclosure relates to graft materials and methods of using graft
materials in breast or other plastic surgery procedures. The graft materials can be used for
tissue augmentation, repair or regeneration of damaged tissue, and/or correction of tissue
defects. As such, the graft material and methods discussed herein may be suitable for a wide
range of surgical applications. In various embodiments, the graft materials and methods
discussed herein may be suitable for various types of surgical breast procedures, such as,
for example, aesthetic surgery associated with mastectomy or lumpectomy, breast
reconstruction, breast augmentation, breast enhancement, breast reduction, mastopexy, and
revisionary breast surgeries.
[0038]      Various embodiments of graft materials discussed herein include a sample of
biocompatible material. In some embodiments, a sample of biocompatible material may be a
flat sheet or sheet-like in form. A sample of biocompatible material may be a single layer or
may be multi-layered. In some embodiments, a sample of biocompatible material may be a
material that facilitates revascularization and cell repopulation. For example, as further
described below, certain embodiments can include an acellular tissue matrix ("ATM").
[0039]      FIG. 1 provides a perspective view of one exemplary embodiment of a graft
material for surgical breast procedures. The graft material may comprise a sample of
biocompatible material 13a. Sample of biocompatible material 13a can have a first edge 15a
and a second edge 17a. A portion of first edge 15a can be convex, curving away from
second edge 17a. Similarly, a portion of second edge 17a can be convex, curving away from
first edge 15a. As depicted in FIG. 1, first edge 15a and second edge 17a may both be

                                                  -7
substantially convex, thus making sample of biocompatible material 13a generally biconvex
in shape.
[0040]      In one exemplary embodiment, either or both first edge 15a and second edge 17a
may be substantially parabolicly curved. As such, the curvature of each may be
characterized, in part, by the distance from the focus to the vertex of each parabola. For
example, as depicted in FIG. 1 , first edge 15a and second edge 17a may be substantially
parabolicly curved, with the parabolic curve of second edge 17a having a greater distance
from its focus to its vertex than that of first edge 15a. Furthermore, in certain embodiments,
sample of biocompatible material 13a may be implanted across breast tissue of a patient
such that first edge 15a is positioned lateral and inferior to first edge 17a, and such that a
longitudinal axis y of sample of biocompatible material 13a is at about a 45[deg.] angle with
respect to the transverse plane of the patient.
[0041]      First edge 15a and second edge 17a may join at an apex.
Depending on the needs of the procedure, the apex can be configured in numerous shapes,
such as, for example, a pointed apex 19a, as depicted in FIG. 1, a rounded apex 19b, as
depicted in FIG. 2, or a squared apex 19c, as depicted in FIG. 3. Further, first edge 15a and
second edge 17a may be joined at more than one apex, and each apex may be shaped
differently. Similarly, sample of biocompatible material 13a may be symmetrical, for example
about an axis x, as depicted in FIG. 1, or asymmetrical, such as 13b depicted in FIG. 4.
[0042]      In some exemplary embodiments, the edges of a sample of biocompatible material
may have multiple portions with varying degrees of curvature, including, for example,
nonconvex, straight, or concave portions, in addition to a convex portion. For example, as
shown in FIG. 4, a sample of biocompatible material 13b may have a first edge 15b and a
second edge 17b joined at a first apex 19d and a second apex 19e. First edge 15b may have
a nonconvex portion 29, and second edge 17b may have a nonconvex portion 31. The
nonconvex portions of first edge 15b and second edge 17b may converge at the second
apex 19e. In certain embodiments, sample of biocompatible material 13b may be implanted
across breast tissue of a patient such that second apex 19e is positioned medial and inferior
to first apex 19d, and such that a longitudinal axis y of sample of biocompatible material 13b
is at about a 45[deg.] angle with respect to the transverse plane of the patient. Further, in
some embodiments, the nonconvex portions of first edge 15b and second edge 17b may be
substantially straight.

                                                   -8
[0043]       Since graft materials may be provided in sheet or sheet-like forms, and the
underlying features of the implantation site are often rounded or irregularly shaped, it may be
difficult to attain adequate conformance between the graft material and the underlying
features. This can be challenging in surgical breast procedures, where the desired outcome
involves unique aesthetic and structural demands. Specifically, it can be difficult to avoid
undesired pleating after implanting a sheet of graft material over a rounded breast mound
and/or breast implant. In some circumstances, pleating may be undesirable because it may
be perceptible by palpation and/or it may negatively affect cell integration or infiltration.
Providing adequate support to maintain breast shape and projection and to minimize or avoid
eventual ptosis, or sagging, of the breast can also be a challenge. In some embodiments,
graft materials incorporating edge configurations, as described herein, may improve surface
coverage and conformance to underlying anatomical features when implanted in a patient.
[0044]       In some exemplary embodiments, sample of biocompatible material 13b may be
specifically sized and shaped to conform to a portion of a surface of a breast implant. For
example, a specific size and shape may be derived by modeling the lower pole of a breast
implant in its proper orientation with respect to gravity. Accordingly, FIG. 5 shows a modeled
Style 410 Anatomical Implant (Allergan, Inc. (Santa Barbara, CA)) 21 in a vertical orientation
and a sample of biocompatible material 13b having a shape produced by modeling
biocompatible material covering 50% of implant 21 such that sample of biocompatible
material 13b may be bordered by the inframammary fold, the lateral fold, and the inferior
edge of the pectoralis major muscle when implanted in a patient. In some embodiments,
tailoring the size and shape of the graft material to a breast implant can provide better
conformance of the graft material to the implant and/or surrounding tissue and may reduce
the frequency of pleating.
[0045]       Currently, graft material is typically provided to surgeons as sheets or sheet-like
devices, and the surgeon may cut the material to the desired size and shape before
implantation. While providing flexibility to surgeons, this practice has several drawbacks.
Often, substantial amounts of the graft material can be wasted. For example, surgeons may
inaccurately estimate the size of the device needed, either overestimating and disposing of
the unused portion of an unnecessarily large device, or underestimating and necessitating
the opening of a second packaged device. Such waste can add substantial costs to
procedures, as graft materials are often very expensive and may be priced based on the
amount of material included. Furthermore, it may be difficult for surgeons to accurately cut
the material freehand into a specific optimum shape.

                                                -9
[0046]     In some embodiments, ready-to-use, off-the-shelf graft materials can be made that
are designed to conform to breast implants of various specifications. For example, in some
embodiments, a sample of biocompatible material can be specifically sized and shaped to
conform to a particular type of breast implant, such as, for example, gel or saline, round or
anatomical/contour, form-stable or nonform-stable, and smooth or textured implants.
Alternatively or additionally, a sample of biocompatible material can be specifically sized and
shaped to conform to breast implants of a predetermined volume. For example, graft
materials can be made from a sample of biocompatible material sized and shaped
specifically for common breast implant volumes, such as, between about 400 and about 550
cubic centimeters, between about 250 and about 400 cubic centimeters, between about 250
and about 550 cubic centimeters, or less than about 250 cubic centimeters. Further, a
sample of biocompatible material can be specifically shaped to conform to breast implants of
a particular profile, such as, for example, samples of biocompatible material 13c and 13d, as
shown in FIGS. 6 and 7. Sample of biocompatible material 13c may be better suited for a
moderate profile implant while sample of biocompatible material 13d may be better suited for
a high profile implant. Providing graft materials specifically sized and shaped for breast
implants of particular specifications (e.g., volume, surface area, surface texture, material,
profile, mechanical properties) may remove some of the uncertainty associated with a
surgeon attempting to estimate the optimal size and shape of graft material needed for a
particular surgery. This in turn, may reduce the amount of graft material that is sometimes
wasted due to inaccurate estimates. This may also reduce the need to perform
trimming/resizing of the graft material during surgery. Avoiding trimming/resizing during
surgery may reduce the duration of the surgery, which can be beneficial both for the health of
the patient and for reducing the cost of the surgery.
[0047]     In other exemplary embodiments, the sample of biocompatible material can be
slightly oversized relative to the modeled size and shape. Slight oversizing can allow the
graft material to accommodate breast implants of different profiles. Additionally, an identified
size and shape can be slightly oversized in some portions to make the graft material
generally symmetrical, such as, for example, sample of biocompatible material 13a. While
this may result in small excesses in material use, this could aid the surgeon by making it
unnecessary to identify a particular side that must be positioned medially or laterally.
[0048]     In some embodiments, the graft material described herein can be used to assist in
treating patients in whom complications related to breast implants have arisen. Such
complications can include malposition (e.g., inframmary fold malposition, lateral malposition,
symmastia), stretch deformity, coverage issues (e.g., wrinkling and rippling), and capsular

                                                  - 10
contraction. For example, in some embodiments, the graft material described herein may be
used to help control the breast pocket size and location, act as an "internal bra" to hold the
implant in place, support fold repairs, support the implant to reduce the pressure and tension
on patient's own tissue, and/or provide an additional layer for coverage of the implant.
[0049]      Exemplary embodiments may further include one or more sets of perforations
across at least a portion of the sample of biocompatible material. Perforations can be formed
in the sample of biocompatible material by any suitable method, such as, for example, die
cutting, laser drilling, water jet cutting, skin graft meshing, or manual incision (e.g., with a
scalpel). In some exemplary embodiments, such a set of perforations can be used to improve
the conformance of a sample of biocompatible material to anatomical structures and/or a
breast implant. For example, as depicted in FIG. 8, set of perforations 23a may form an
arcuate pattern across sample of biocompatible material 13e. In some exemplary
embodiments, the arcuate pattern can improve conformance of graft materials to rounded
structures, such as, for example, breast tissue. In certain embodiments, set of perforations
23a may create a mesh pattern that enables separation and/or expansion of portions of
biocompatible material 13e such that portions of biocompatible material 13e may be capable
of covering larger surface areas. In some exemplary embodiments, one or more sets of
perforations across at least a portion of the sample of biocompatible material may also be
used to modify the mechanical properties of the sample of biocompatible and/or affect tissue
ingrowth.
[0050]      In various embodiments, one or more sets of perforations can be incorporated into
graft material in numerous configurations depending on the structure of the tissue on which
the graft material is to be implanted or type of breast implant being used. For example, a set
of perforations 23a can be included on samples of biocompatible material of any desired
shape, such as, for example, semicircular (13e, 13f) (including semicircular with a portion
removed, as depicted in FIG. 9, to accommodate an anatomical feature, such as, for
example, the nipple-areola complex), rectangular (13g), or customized to a breast implant
(13b), as described above in greater detail. The set of perforations may be uniform or
irregular in shape and spacing. A set of perforations may include individual perforations that
are arcuate, individual perforations that are straight but arranged in an arcuate pattern, or a
combination of both, depending on the features of the implantation surface. Individual
perforations can be formed as slits, circular apertures, or any other shape. Furthermore, set
of perforations 23a can be placed across an entire surface of biocompatible material 13g, as
depicted in FIG. 10, or simply a portion of a surface of biocompatible material 13g, as
depicted in FIG. 11 , in order to achieve desired conformance characteristics across different

                                                - 11
portions of the sample of biocompatible material 13g. Similarly, as depicted in FIG. 13,
multiple sets of perforations 23b, 23c can be included on a single sample of biocompatible
material to attain a desired variation of conformance characteristics across the sample of
biocompatible material.
[0051]     In some exemplary embodiments, as depicted in FIG. 14, a uniform set of
perforations may include a series of parallel slits 25. Each slit 25 may have a generally
uniform length L, adjacent slits may be separated longitudinally by a generally uniform gap
distance g, and adjacent parallel slits may be separated by a generally uniform horizontal
separation distance d. In some exemplary embodiments, length L may be between about 0.1
and about 20 millimeters, gap distance g may be between about 0.1 and about 20
millimeters, and horizontal separation distance d may be between about 0.1 and about 20
millimeters. Further, in some exemplary embodiments, length L may be between about 4 and
about 8 millimeters, gap distance g may be between about 2 and about 6 millimeters, and
horizontal separation distance d may be between about 2 and about 6 millimeters. In some
exemplary embodiments, adjacent parallel slits may be offset longitudinally with respect to
each other as depicted in FIG. 14. Such a configuration of a set of parallel slits may provide
improved conformance to a sample of biocompatible material while still maintaining sufficient
support strength.
[0052]     In some embodiments, the samples of biocompatible material can comprise any
suitable synthetic or biologic material, such as, for example, medical-grade silicon,
autologous or cadaveric tissue, and/or biomatrices, such as, for example, ATM.
[0053]     As used herein, ATM refers to a tissue-derived biomatrix structure that can be
made from any of a wide range of collagen-containing tissues by removing all, or
substantially all, viable cells and all detectable subcellular components and/or debris
generated by killing cells. As used herein, an ATM lacking "substantially all viable cells" is an
ATM in which the concentration of viable cells is less than 1% (e.g., less than: 0.1%; 0.01 %;
0.001%; 0.0001%; 0.00001%; or 0.000001%) of that in the tissue or organ from which the
ATM was made.
[0054]     ATM's that are suitable for use in the present disclosure include those that contain,
lack, or substantially lack, an epithelial basement membrane. As used herein, an ATM that
"substantially lacks" an epithelial basement membrane is an acellular tissue matrix
containing less than 5% (e.g., less than: 3%; 2%; 1%; 0.5%; 0.25%; 0.1%; 0.01%; 0.001%;

                                                 - 12
or even less than 0.0001%) of the epithelial basement membrane possessed by the
corresponding unprocessed tissue from which the acellular tissue matrix was derived.
[0055]      An epithelial basement membrane is a thin sheet of extracellular material
contiguous with the basilar aspect of epithelial cells. Sheets of aggregated epithelial cells
form an epithelium. Thus, for example, the epithelium of skin is called the epidermis, and the
skin epithelial basement membrane lies between the epidermis and the dermis. The
epithelial basement membrane is a specialized extracellular matrix that provides a barrier
function and an attachment surface for epithelial-like cells; however, it does not contribute
any significant structural or biomechanical role to the underlying tissue (e.g., dermis).
Components of epithelial basement membranes include, for example, laminin, collagen type
VII, and nidogen. The temporal and spatial organizations of the epithelial basement
membrane distinguish it from, e.g., the dermal extracellular matrix.
[0056]      Accordingly, in some non-limiting embodiments, the ATMs suitable for use in the
present disclosure contain epithelial basement membrane. In other non-limiting
embodiments, ATM may lack or substantially lack epithelial basement membrane.
[0057]      ATM's suitable for use in the present disclosure may, for example, retain certain
biological functions, such as cell recognition, cell binding, the ability to support cell spreading,
cell proliferation, cellular in-growth and cell differentiation. Such functions may be provided,
for example, by undenatured collagenous proteins (e.g., type I collagen) and a variety of non
collagenous molecules (e.g., proteins that serve as ligands for either molecules such as
integrin receptors, molecules with high charge density such as glycosaminoglycans (e.g.,
hyaluronan) or proteoglycans, or other adhesins). In some embodiments, the ATM's may
retain certain structural functions, including maintenance of histological architecture and
maintenance of the three- dimensional array of the tissue's components. The ATM's
described herein may also, for example, exhibit desireable physical characteristics such as
strength, elasticity, and durability, defined porosity, and retention of macromolecules.
[0058]      ATMs suitable for use in the present disclosure may be crosslinked or
uncrosslinked.
[0059]      The efficiency of the biological functions of an ATM can be measured, for example,
by the ability of the ATM to support cell proliferation. In some embodiments of the present
disclosure, the ATM exhibits at least 50% (e.g., at least: 50%; 60%; 70%; 80%; 90%; 95%;

                                                 -  13
98%; 99%; 99.5%; 100%; or more than 100%) of that of the native tissue or organ from
which the ATM is made.
[0060]       In some embodiments, the graft material is amenable to being remodeled by
infiltrating cells such as differentiated cells of the relevant host tissue, stem cells such as
mesenchymal stem cells, or progenitor cells. This may be accomplished, for example, by
forming the grafted matrix material from tissue that is identical to the surrounding host tissue,
but such identity is not necessary.
[0061]       Remodeling may be directed by the above-described ATM components and
signals from the surrounding host tissue (such as cytokines, extracellular matrix components,
biomechanical stimuli, and bioelectrical stimuli). For example, the presence of mesenchymal
stem cells in the bone marrow and the peripheral circulation has been documented in the
literature and shown to regenerate a variety of musculoskeletal tissues [Caplan (1991) J.
Orthop. Res. 9:641-650; Caplan (1994) Clin. Plast. Surg. 21 :429-435; and Caplan et al.
(1997) Clin Orthop. 342:254-269]. Additionally, the graft must provide some degree (greater
than threshold) of tensile and biomechanical strength during the remodeling process.
[0062]      ATM in accordance with the present disclosure may be manufactured from a
variety of source tissues. For example, ATM may be produced from any collagen-containing
soft tissue and muscular skeleton (e.g., dermis, fascia, pericardium, dura, umbilical cords,
placentae, cardiac valves, ligaments, tendons, vascular tissue (arteries and veins such as
saphenous veins), neural connective tissue, urinary bladder tissue, ureter tissue, or intestinal
tissue), as long as the above-described properties are retained by the matrix. Moreover, the
tissues in which ATM graft material are placed may include any tissue that can be remodeled
by invading or infiltrating cells. Non-limiting examples of such tissues include skeletal tissues
such as bone, cartilage, ligaments, fascia, and tendon. Other tissues in which any of the
above grafts can be placed include, for example, skin, gingiva, dura, myocardium, vascular
tissue, neural tissue, striated muscle, smooth muscle, bladder wall, ureter tissue, intestine,
and urethra tissue.
[0063]      While an ATM may be made from one or more individuals of the same species as
the recipient of the ATM graft, this is not necessarily the case. Thus, for example, an ATM
may be made from porcine tissue and implanted in a human patient. Species that can serve
as recipients of ATM and donors of tissues or organs for the production of the ATM include,
without limitation, humans, nonhuman primates (e.g., monkeys, baboons, or chimpanzees),
porcine, bovine, horses, goats, sheep, dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, gerbils, hamsters,

                                                - 14
rats, or mice. Of particular interest as donors are animals (e.g., pigs) that have been
genetically engineered to lack the terminal a-galactose moiety. For descriptions of
appropriate animals see co-pending U.S. Application Serial No. 10/896,594 and U.S. Patent
No. 6,166,288, the disclosures of all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
[0064]     As an example of suitable porcine-derived tissue, non-limiting mention is made of
STRATTICE     T M, which is a porcine dermal tissue produced by Lifecell Corporation
(Branchburg, NJ). The tissue matrix may be derived from porcine skin by removing the
epidermis while leaving the dermal matrix substantially intact. In some embodiments, the
porcine-derived tissue matrix may facilitate tissue ingrowth and remodeling with the patient's
own cells. In other embodiments, the material can include a collagenous matrix derived from
human cadaver skin (e.g. ALLODERM@, Lifecell Corporation (Branchburg, NJ)) that has
been processed to remove both the epidermis and cells.
[0065]     In some embodiments of the present disclosure, a freeze dried ATM is produced
from human dermis by the LifeCell Corporation (Branchburg, NJ) and marketed in the form of
small sheets as ALLODERM(R). Such sheets are marketed by the LifeCell Corporation as
rectangular sheets with the dimensions of, for example, 1cm x 2cm, 3cm x 7cm, 4cm x 8cm,
5cm x 10cm, 4cm x 12cm, and 6cm x 12cm. The cryoprotectant used for freezing and drying
ALLODERM@ is a solution of 35% maltodextrin and 10mM ethylenediaminetetraacetate
(EDTA). Thus, the final dried product contains about 60% by weight ATM and about 40% by
weight maltodextrin. The LifeCell Corporation also makes an analogous product made from
porcine dermis (designated XENODERM) having the same proportions of ATM and
maltodextrin as ALLODERM@.
[0066]     As an alternative to using such genetically engineered animals as donors,
appropriate tissues and organs can be treated, before or after decellularization, with the
enzyme a-galactosidase, which removes terminal a-galactose (a-gal) moieties from
saccharide chains on, for example, glycoproteins. Methods of treating tissue with a
galactosidase to remove these moieties are described in, for example, U.S. Patent No.
6,331,319, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0067]     In an implementation, either before or after the soft tissue cells are killed in the
ATM, the collagen-containing material is subjected to in vitro digestion of the collagen
containing material with one or more glycosidases, and particularly galactosidases, such as

                                                -15
a-galactosidase. In particular, a-gal epitopes are eliminated by enzymatic treatment with a
galactosidases.
[0068]      The N-acetylactosamine residues are epitopes that are normally expressed on
human and mammalian cells and thus are not immunogenic. The in vitro digestion of the
collagen-containing material with glycosidases may be accomplished by various methods.
For example, the collagen-containing material can be soaked or incubated in a buffer
solution containing glycosidase. Alternatively, a buffer solution containing the glycosidase
can be forced under pressure into the collagen-containing material via a pulsatile lavage
process.
[0069]      Elimination of the a-gal epitopes from the collagen-containing material may
diminish the immune response against the collagen-containing material. The a-gal epitope is
expressed in non-primate mammals and in New World monkeys (monkeys of South
America) as 1x106 - 35x106 epitopes per cell, as well as on macromolecules such as
proteoglycans of the extracellular components. U. Galili et al., J. Biol. Chem. 263: 17755
(1988). This epitope is absent in Old World primates (monkeys of Asia and Africa and apes)
and humans, however. Id. Anti-gal antibodies are produced in humans and primates as a
result of an immune response to a-gal epitope carbohydrate structures on gastrointestinal
bacteria. U. Galili et al., Infect. Immun. 56: 1730 (1988); R. M. Hamadeh et al., J. Clin.
Invest. 89: 1223 (1992).
[0070]      Since non-primate mammals (e.g., pigs) produce a-gal epitopes,
xenotransplantation by injection of collagen-containing material from these mammals into
primates often results in rejection because of primate anti-Gal binding to these epitopes on
the collagen-containing material. The binding results in the destruction of the collagen
containing material by complement fixation and by antibody dependent cell cytotoxicity. U.
Galili et al., Immunology Today 14: 480 (1993); M. Sandrin et al., Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA
90: 11391 (1993); H. Good et al., Transplant. Proc. 24: 559 (1992); B. H. Collins et al., J.
Immunol. 154: 5500 (1995). Furthermore, xenotransplantation results in major activation of
the immune system to produce increased amounts of high affinity anti-gal antibodies.
Accordingly, the substantial elimination of a-gal epitopes from cells and from extracellular
components of the collagen-containing material, and the prevention of reexpression of
cellular a-gal epitopes can diminish the immune response against the collagen-containing
material associated with anti-gal antibody binding to a-gal epitopes.

                                                 - 16
[0071]     ATMs suitable for use in the present disclosure may be provided in various forms
depending on the tissue or organ from which it is derived, the nature of the recipient tissue or
organ, and the nature of the damage or defect in the recipient tissue or organ. Thus, for
example, a ATM derived from a heart valve can be provided as a whole valve, as small
sheets or strips, or as pieces cut into any of a variety of shapes and/or sizes. The same
concept applies to ATM produced from any of the above-listed tissues and organs. In some
embodiments, the ATM is made from a recipient's own collagen-based tissue.
[0072]     ATM's suitable for use in the present disclosure can be produced by a variety of
methods, so long as their production results in matrices with the above-described biological
and structural properties. As non-limiting examples of such production methods, mention is
made of the methods described in U.S. Patent Nos.: 4,865,871; 5,366,616, and 6,933,326,
U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2003/0035843 Al , and US 2005/0028228 Al
all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[0073]      In general, the steps involved in the production of an ATM include harvesting the
tissue from a donor (e.g., a human cadaver or any of the above- listed mammals), chemical
treatment so as to stabilize the tissue and avoid biochemical and structural degradation
together with, or followed by, cell removal under conditions which similarly preserve
biological and structural function. After thorough removal of dead and/or lysed cell
components that may cause inflammation as well as any bioincompatible cell-removal
agents, the matrix can be treated with a cryopreservation agent and cryopreserved and,
optionally, freeze dried, again under conditions necessary to maintain the described
biological and structural properties of the matrix. After freeze drying, the tissue can,
optionally, be pulverized or micronized to produce a particulate ATM under similar function
preserving conditions. After cryopreservation or freeze-drying (and optionally pulverization or
micronization), the ATM can be thawed or rehydrated, respectively. All steps are generally
carried out under aseptic, preferably sterile, conditions.
[0074]     The initial stabilizing solution arrests and prevents osmotic, hypoxic, autolytic, and
proteolytic degradation, protects against microbial contamination, and reduces mechanical
damage that can occur with tissues that contain, for example, smooth muscle components
(e.g., blood vessels). The stabilizing solution may contain an appropriate buffer, one or more
antioxidants, one or more oncotic agents, one or more antibiotics, one or more protease
inhibitors, and in some cases, a smooth muscle relaxant.

                                                 - 17
[0075]     The tissue is then placed in a processing solution to remove viable cells (e.g.,
epithelial cells, endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts) from the structural
matrix without damaging the basement membrane complex or the biological and structural
integrity of the collagen matrix. The processing solution may contain an appropriate buffer,
salt, an antibiotic, one or more detergents (e.g., Triton-x-1 00, sodium deoxycholate,
polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan mono-oleate), one or more agents to prevent cross-linking,
one or more protease inhibitors, and/or one or more enzymes. The tissue is then treated with
a processing solution containing active agents, and for a time period such that the structural
integrity of the matrix is maintained.
[0076]     Alternatively, the tissue can be cryopreserved prior to undergoing water
replacement. If so, after decellularization, the tissue is incubated in a cryopreservation
solution. This solution may contain at least one cryoprotectant to minimize ice crystal
damage to the structural matrix that could occur during freezing. If the tissue is to be freeze
dried, the solution may also contain at least one dry-protective components, to minimize
structural damage during drying and may include a combination of an organic solvent and
water which undergoes neither expansion nor contraction during freezing. The cryoprotective
and dry- protective agents may be the same. If the tissue is not going to be freeze dried, it
can be frozen by placing it (in a sterilized container) in a freezer at about -80'C, or by
plunging it into sterile liquid nitrogen, and then storing at a temperature below - 1600C until
use. The tissue sample can be thawed prior to use by, for example, immersing a sterile non
permeable vessel (see below) containing the sample in a water bath at about 370C or by
allowing the tissue to come to room temperature under ambient conditions.
[0077]     If the tissue is to be frozen and freeze dried, following incubation in the
cryopreservation solution, the tissue may be packaged inside a sterile vessel that is
permeable to water vapor yet impermeable to bacteria, e.g., a water vapor permeable pouch
or glass vial. As a non-limiting example, one side of the pouch may include medical grade
porous TYVEK® membrane, a trademarked product of DuPont Company of Wilmington, DE.
This membrane is porous to water vapor and impervious to bacteria and dust. The TYVEK
membrane is heat sealed to an impermeable polyethylene laminate sheet, leaving one side
open, thus forming a two-sided pouch. The open pouch is sterilized by irradiation prior to
use. The tissue is aseptically placed (through the open side) into the sterile pouch. The open
side is then aseptically heat sealed to close the pouch. The packaged tissue is henceforth
protected from microbial contamination throughout subsequent processing steps.

                                               -18
[0078]     The vessel containing the tissue is cooled to a low temperature at a specified rate
which is compatible with the specific cryoprotectant formulation to minimize the freezing
damage. See U.S. Patent No. 5,336,616 for non-limiting examples of appropriate cooling
protocols. The tissue is then dried at a low temperature under vacuum conditions, such that
water vapor is removed sequentially from each ice crystal phase.
[0079]     At the completion of the drying of the samples in the water vapor permeable
vessel, the vacuum of the freeze drying apparatus is reversed with a dry inert gas such as
nitrogen, helium or argon. While being maintained in the same gaseous environment, the
semipermeable vessel is placed inside an impervious (i.e., impermeable to water vapor as
well as microorganisms) vessel (e.g., a pouch) which is further sealed, e.g., by heat and/or
pressure. Where the tissue sample was frozen and dried in a glass vial, the vial is sealed
under vacuum with an appropriate inert stopper and the vacuum of the drying apparatus
reversed with an inert gas prior to unloading. In either case, the final product is hermetically
sealed in an inert gaseous atmosphere.
[0080]     After rehydration of the ATM (see below), histocompatible, viable cells can be
restored to the ATM to produce a permanently accepted graft that may be remodeled by the
host. In one embodiment, histocompatible viable cells may be added to the matrices by
standard in vitro cell coculturing techniques prior to transplantation, or by in vivo repopulation
following transplantation. In vivo repopulation can be by the recipient's own cells migrating
into the ATM or by infusing or injecting cells obtained from the recipient or histocompatible
cells from another donor into the ATM in situ.
[0081]     The cell types chosen for reconstitution may depend on the nature of the tissue or
organ to which the ATM is being remodeled. For example, the reconstitution of full-thickness
skin with an ATM often requires the restoration of epidermal cells or keratinocytes. Thus,
cells derived directly from the intended recipient can be used to reconstitute an ATM and the
resulting composition grafted to the recipient in the form of a meshed split-skin graft.
Alternatively, cultured (autologous or allogeneic) cells can be added to the ATM. Such cells
can be, for example, grown under standard tissue culture conditions and then added to the
ATM. In another embodiment, the cells can be grown in and/or on an ATM in tissue culture.
Cells grown in and/or on an ATM in tissue culture can have been obtained directly from an
appropriate donor (e.g., the intended recipient or an allogeneic donor) or they can have been
first grown in tissue culture in the absence of the ATM.

                                                -19
[0082]      The endothelial cell is important for the reconstitution of heart valves and vascular
conduits. Such cells line the inner surface of the tissue, and may be expanded in culture.
Endothelial cells may also be derived, for example, directly from the intended recipient
patient or from umbilical arteries or veins.
[0083]      Other non-limiting examples of cells that may be used to reconstitute the ATMs of
the present disclosure include fibroblasts, embryonic stem cells (ESC), adult or embryonic
mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), prochondroblasts, chondroblasts, chondrocytes, pro
osteoblasts, osteocytes, osteoclasts, monocytes, pro-cardiomyoblasts, pericytes,
cardiomyoblasts, cardiomyocytes, gingival epithelial cells, or periodontal ligament stem cells.
Naturally, the ATM can be repopulated with combinations of two more (e.g., two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten) of these cell-types.
[0084]      Reagents and methods for carrying out all the above steps are known in the art.
Suitable reagents and methods are described in, for example, U.S. Patent No 5,336,616.
[0085]      Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended
that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true scope and
spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

                                              - 20
CLAIMS
1.          A medical device for surgical breast procedures, comprising:
            a sample of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the
first edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the
first edge,
            wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes, and
            wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
2.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the sample of biocompatible material is
biconvex in shape.
3.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the first edge is substantially parabolicly
curved.
4.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the second edge is substantially
parabolicly curved.
5.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the first edge includes a nonconvex
portion.
6.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the second edge includes a nonconvex
portion.
7.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the second edge includes a substantially
straight portion.
8.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the second edge includes a concave
portion.
9.          The medical device of claim 1, wherein the sample of biocompatible material is
asymmetrical about a longitudinal axis (y).

                                                  - 21
10.         The medical device of claim 1, wherein:
            the first edge includes a first vertex and the second edge includes a second vertex,
and
            the first vertex of the first edge is separated from a first focus of the first edge by a
first length and the second vertex of the second edge is separated from a second focus of
the second edge by a second length, the second length being greater than the first length.
11.         The medical device of claim 1, wherein the sample of biocompatible material
comprises an acellular tissue matrix.
12.         The medical device of claim 11, wherein the acellular tissue matrix comprises a
decellularized collagen-containing tissue matrix from a nonhuman animal.
13.         The medical device of claim 11, wherein the acellular tissue matrix lacks or
substantially lacks epithelial basement membrane.
14.         The medical device of claim 11, wherein the acellular tissue matrix is a dermal
tissue matrix.
15.         The medical device of claim 12, wherein the nonhuman animal is a pig.
16.         The medical device of claim 12, wherein the nonhuman animal is genetically
modified such that tissues in the nonhuman animal lack, or substantially lack, galactose
a-1,3-galactose epitopes.
17.         A medical device for surgical breast procedures, comprising:
            a sheet of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the
first edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the
first edge,
            wherein the first edge includes a first vertex and the second edge includes a
second vertex,
            wherein the first vertex of the first edge is separated from a first focus of the first
edge by a first length and the second vertex of the second edge is separated from a second
focus of the second edge by a second length, the second length being greater than the first
length, and
            wherein the sheet of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).

                                               - 22
18.         The medical device of claim 17, wherein the sheet of biocompatible material
includes a longitudinal axis (y) coincident with the sheet of biocompatible material, the
vertical axis (x) passing through the first and second vertices, and a distance along the
longitudinal axis (y) of the sheet biocompatible material being longer than a distance along
the vertical axis (x) of the sheet biocompatible material.
19.         A medical device for surgical breast procedures, comprising:
            a sample of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the
first edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the
first edge, wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
            wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis
(x), and
            wherein the sample of biocompatible material includes a set of perforations across
at least a portion of the sample of biocompatible material.
20.         The medical device of claim 19, wherein the set of perforations forms an arcuate
pattern.
21.         The medical device of claim 19, wherein the set of perforations is arranged in a
semicircular pattern.
22.         The medical device of claim 19, wherein the set of perforations creates
a mesh pattern.
23.         The medical device of claim 19, wherein the set of perforations comprises a series
of parallel slits, wherein the slits have a generally uniform length, a generally uniform gap
distance longitudinally separates adjacent slits, and a generally uniform horizontal separation
distance
separates adjacent parallel slits.
24.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein the length is between 0.1 and 20mm.
25.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein the length is between 4 and 8 mm.
26.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein the gap distance is between 0.1 and 20 mm.
27.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein the gap distance is between 2 and 6 mm.

                                              - 23
28.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein the horizontal separation distance is
between 0.1 and 20 mm
29.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein the horizontal separation distance is
between 2 and 6 mm.
30.         The medical device of claim 23, wherein adjacent parallel slits are offset
longitudinally with respect to each other.
31.         The medical device of claim 19, wherein each perforation of the set of perforations
is arcuate.
32.         The medical device of claim 19, wherein the sample of biocompatible material
comprises an acellular tissue matrix.
33.         The medical device of claim 32, wherein the acellular tissue matrix comprises a
decellularized collagen-containing tissue matrix from a nonhuman animal.
34.         The medical device of claim 32, wherein the acellular tissue matrix lacks, or
substantially lacks, epithelial basement membrane.
35.         The medical device of claim 32, wherein the acellular tissue matrix is a dermal
tissue matrix.
36.         The medical device of claim 33, wherein the nonhuman animal is a pig.
37.         The medical device of claim 33, wherein the nonhuman animal is genetically
modified such that tissues in the nonhuman animal lack, or substantially lack, galactose a
1,3-galactose epitopes.
38.         A medical device for surgical breast procedures, comprising:
            a sample of biocompatible material including a first edge and a second edge, the
first edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the
first edge,
            wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
            wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis
(x), and

                                              - 24
           wherein the sample of biocompatible material is sized and shaped to conform to a
portion of a surface of a breast implant having a predetermined volume.
39.        The medical device of claim 38, wherein the breast implant is a round implant.
40.        The medical device of claim 38, wherein the breast implant is an anatomical
implant.
41.        The medical device of claim 38, wherein the predetermined volume of the breast
implant is between 400 and 550 cc.
42.        The medical device of claim 38, wherein the predetermined volume of the breast
implant is between 250 and 400 cc.
43.        The medical device of claim 38, wherein the predetermined volume of the breast
implant is between 100 and 250 cc.
44.        A method of making one or more graft devices, comprising:
           providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from
the sheet of biocompatible material,
           wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
           wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes, and
           wherein the sample of biocompatible material is symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
45.        The method of claim 44, wherein the cutting one or more samples comprises
creating a first edge and a second edge in the biocompatible material such that the first edge
includes a convex portion and the second edge includes a convex portion.
46.        The method of claim 44, comprising forming a set of perforations in the one or
more samples, the set of perforations forming an arcuate pattern across at least a portion of
the one or more samples.
47.        A method of making one or more graft devices, comprising:
           providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from
the sheet of biocompatible material,

                                                 - 25
           wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
           wherein the first edge includes a first vertex and the second edge includes a
second vertex,
           wherein the first vertex of the first edge is separated from a first focus of the first
edge by a first length and the second vertex of the second edge is separated from a second
focus of the second edge by a second length, the second length being greater than the first
length, and
           wherein the one or more samples are symmetrical about a vertical axis (x).
48.        A method of making one or more graft devices, comprising:
           providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from
the sheet of biocompatible material,
           wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
           wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
           wherein the one or more samples are symmetrical about a vertical axis (x), and
           wherein the one or more samples include a set of perforations across at least a
portion of the sample of biocompatible material.
49.        A method of making one or more graft devices, comprising:
           providing a sheet of biocompatible material and cutting one or more samples from
the sheet of biocompatible material,
           wherein the one or more samples include a first edge and a second edge, the first
edge curving away from the second edge and the second edge curving away from the first
edge,
           wherein the first edge and the second edge join at pointed apexes,
           wherein the one or more samples are symmetrical about a vertical axis (x), and
           wherein the one or more samples are sized and shaped to conform to a portion of
a surface of a breast implant having a predetermined volume.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/8

