                                   ABSTRACT
A method of bioprocessing using a liquid biofeed is provided. The method
includes the steps of floating a container comprising a first bioprocessing
organism on a pond; and placing a liquid biofeed within the container,
whereby the first bioprocessing organism consumes a substance within the
liquid biofeed, to thereby bioprocess using the liquid biofeed. The pond may
comprise an additional bioprocessing organism. The method may include the
further step of transferring the liquid biofeed between the container and the
pond before and/or after bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing organism,
whereby the additional bioprocessing organism consumes a substance
within the liquid biofeed. An apparatus and a system suitable for use
according to the bioprocessing method are also provided.

                                1/22
            40
Influent
                        5
                30                                         300
                                                           300     120
            300                      100      3
                   200        110            20    **00
                                  Effluent              70
                          Figure 1
                                                                      1
         40
                       50                            60
                                       100     130             300     120
           300
                 200          110              20     "
                                   EfflIu ent 4:l7
                          Figure 2

                                        1
                                     TITLE
                        FLOATING BIOPROCESSOR
                          FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to bioprocessing. More particularly,
the invention relates, but is not limited, to the use of floating containers for
bioprocessing, such as bioprocessing of wastewater.
                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Bioprocessing refers generally to the industrial use of living
organisms to feed off or process a starting medium (referred to generally as
a 'biofeed'), thereby obtaining a desired end result. The end result may be
the processed biofeed; a substance produced by the living organism; or the
cultivated organism itself.
[0003]      Bioprocessing is commonly used in the treatment of wastewater.
Bioprocessing of wastewater generally occurs in ponds or lagoons (which
generically includes chambers or vessels) containing organisms              and
wastewater for processing. In this context, typically, bioprocessing is aimed
at reducing unwanted impurities from the wastewater.
[0004]      Wastewater treatment ponds include anaerobic ponds, facultative
ponds, and aerobic ponds. Anaerobic ponds typically receive a very heavy
organic loading, such that there is no aerobic zone formed therein. In
anaerobic ponds, biological treatment reactions are generally bacterial acid
formation and/or methane formations. Facultative ponds comprise an aerobic
layer overlying an anaerobic layer. Aerobic processes in the upper layer
typically perform odour control, and nutrient and biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD)    removal. Anaerobic processes in the lower layer perform, for
example, sludge digestion and denitrification. Aerobic ponds are typically
relatively shallow and maintain dissolved oxygen throughout their depth.
Typically, photosynthetic, oxygen producing organisms (such as algae) are
used in aerobic ponds.
[0005]      In some cases, combinations of anaerobic, facultative, and/or
aerobic ponds are used in 'treatment chains', wherein water treated using
one pond type is transferred to another pond type. Notably however, in

                                             2
existing treatment facilities, independent infrastructure for each pond type is
used, i.e. separate anaerobic, facultative, and/or aerobic ponds are required.
[0006]       Additionally, in existing anaerobic, facultative, and aerobic ponds,
control of organisms such that growth of the desired organisms is facilitated,
and the growth of unwanted organisms is constrained or prevented, can be
difficult. In facultative ponds, achieving growth of the correct organisms
within the appropriate pond layer can represent a further challenge.
[0007]        In addition to waste water treatment, bioprocessing may be
exploited for the production of products in 'bioreactors'. For example,
bioreactors can be industrially used to obtain chemicals produced by an
organism or derived from a starting medium, and/or to cultivate an organism
itself. Bioreactors may be in the form of closed systems (e.g. sealed
containers) or open systems (e.g. open tanks or ponds).
[0008]        In view of the preceding, new approaches for bioprocessing,
including those applicable to biotreatment of wastewater, would be desirable.
                             SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0009]        In a first aspect, there is provided a method of bioprocessing using
a liquid biofeed, including the steps of:
         floating a container on a pond; and
         placing a first bioprocessing organism and a liquid biofeed within the
container, whereby the first bioprocessing organism consumes a substance
within the liquid biofeed to thereby bioprocess using the liquid biofeed,
        wherein the liquid biofeed is transferred between the container and
the pond before and/or after bioprocessing.
[0010]        In one preferred embodiment, the liquid biofeed is transferred from
the pond to the container before bioprocessing in the container.
[0011]        In another preferred embodiment, the liquid biofeed is transferred
from the container to the pond, after bioprocessing in the container.
[0012]       Transfer of the liquid biofeed between the container and the pond
may be direct or indirect. Processing and/or supplementation of the liquid
biofeed may occur during transfer. In one preferred embodiment, liquid of the
pond serves directly as the liquid biofeed for the first bioprocessing

                                           3
organism.
[0013]       Suitably the liquid biofeed transferred to the floating container is a
water-based or aqueous biofeed. Suitably, the liquid of the pond is or
comprises water.
[0014]        In a particularly preferred embodiment, the liquid biofeed is
wastewater. Suitably the substance consumed by the first bioprocessing
organism is a wastewater contaminant. Preferably, the wastewater is at least
partially    purified by   the   bioprocessing.     In these    embodiments,     the
bioprocessing organism will be a biotreatment organism.
[0015]        In a preferred embodiment, the first bioprocessing organism
contained within the floating container is a photoactive organism. Preferably
the first bioprocessing organism is photosynthetically active with wavelengths
of light in the visible spectrum, i.e. between about 400 nm to about 680 nm.
[0016]       The first bioprocessing organism may be a microorganism, such
as a microalgae or a bacteria.             In preferred    embodiments, the first
bioprocessing organism is selected from the group consisting of an algae; a
cyanobacteria; and a bacteria. Preferably the algae is a microalgae. In some
embodiments, the algae is selected from the group consisting of: Chlorella;
Spirulina;       Nannochloropsis;       Nitzschia;    Dunaliella;      Nannochloris;
Porphyridium;         Schizochytrium;       Tetraselmis;      Euglena;     Phacus;
Chlamydomonas;            Amkistrodesmus;         Micractinium;      Scenedesmus;
Selenastrum; Dictyosphaerium; and Volvox.
[0017]        In some embodiments, the liquid of the pond may comprise one or
more     additional    bioprocessing    organisms.    Preferably,    the  additional
bioprocessing organism is different than the first bioprocessing organism.
[0018]        Preferably   the    additional    bioprocessing     organism    is   a
microorganism,       such   as   a  microalgae     or  a   bacteria.   In preferred
embodiments, the additional bioprocessing organism is selected from the
group consisting of an algae; a cyanobacteria; and a bacteria. Preferably, the
algae is a microalgae. In embodiments wherein the bioprocessing organism
is a bacteria, the bacteria may be an aerobic bacteria, an anaerobic bacteria,
or a purple sulphur bacteria, although without limitation thereto.

                                         4
[0019]      In certain embodiments wherein the liquid of the pond comprises
one or more additional bioprocessing organisms, the method may include the
further step of using the liquid of the pond as a liquid biofeed for
bioprocessing using the additional bioprocessing organism.
[0020]      In some      said  embodiments,    the   liquid  biofeed   used for
bioprocessing in the floating container is liquid biofeed that has initially been
used for bioprocessing in the pond.        In some said embodiments, liquid
biofeed used for bioprocessing in the floating container is subsequently used
for bioprocessing in the pond.
[0021]      In    particularly   preferred   embodiments,       the    additional
bioprocessing organism contained within the pond is a biotreatment
organism adapted for bioprocessing of wastewater. In these embodiments,
the pond will be a wastewater treatment pond.
[0022]      In some embodiments the floating container may comprise one or
more    additional    bioprocessing   organisms.    Preferably,   the  additional
bioprocessing organism is different than the first bioprocessing organism.
[0023]      Preferably the one or more additional bioprocessing organisms of
the floating container is a microorganism, such as a microalgae or a bacteria.
In preferred embodiments, the additional bioprocessing organism is selected
from the group consisting of an algae; a cyanobacteria; and a bacteria.
Preferably, the algae is a microalgae. In embodiments wherein the
bioprocessing organism is a bacteria, the bacteria may be an aerobic
bacteria, an anaerobic bacteria, or a purple sulphur bacteria, although
without limitation thereto.
[0024]      In    particularly   preferred   embodiments,       the    additional
bioprocessing organism of the floating container is a biotreatment organism
adapted for bioprocessing of wastewater.
[0025]      In certain embodiments wherein the floating container comprises
one or more additional bioprocessing organisms, the method may include the
step of containing the first bioprocessing organism and the additional
bioprocessing organism within separate compartments of the floating
container. Suitably, the compartments are separated by barriers.

                                           5
[0026]       In preferred said embodiments, the method may include the step
of transferring the liquid biofeed to the compartment containing the first
bioprocessing      organism for     bioprocessing     by the first   bioprocessing
organism, before or after transferring the liquid medium to the compartment
containing the additional bioprocessing organism for bioprocessing by the
additional bioprocessing organism.
[0027]       In preferred embodiments wherein the pond and/or the floating
container comprise one or more additional bioprocessing organisms that are
algae, the algae is selected from the group consisting of: Chlorella; Spirulina;
Nannochloropsis;        Nitzschia;   Dunaliella;    Nannochloris;    Porphyridium;
Schizochytrium;        Tetraselmis;     Euglena;      Phacus;     Chlamydomonas;
Amkistrodesmus;            Micractinium;       Scenedesmus;           Selenastrum;
Dictyosphaerium; and Volvox.
[0028]       In preferred embodiments wherein said one or more additional
bioprocessing organisms are a cyanobacteria, the cyanobacteria is selected
from     the   group    consisting  of:  filamentous     anoxygenic    phototrophs;
phototrophic acidobacteria; phototrophic heliobacteria; purple sulfur bacteria;
purple non-sulfur bacteria; green sulfur bacteria; and green non-sulfur
bacteria.
[0029]       In some embodiments, the method may include the further step of
actively mixing      the   contents of the      floating   container, to   facilitate
bioprocessing in the floating container, or in one or more compartments
thereof.
[0030]       In some embodiments, the method includes the step of controlling
growth of a photoactive organism by use of the floating container wherein the
floating container comprises one or more barriers which affect transmission
of light. The growth of the organism may be controlled within the pond and/or
within the floating container. The organism for which growth is controlled
according to this embodiment may be the first bioprocessing organism, one
or more of the one or more additional bioprocessing organisms, or a further
organism.
[0031]       In one embodiment, a floating container is used that comprises

                                         6
one or more barriers which affect transmission of light in the visible
spectrum, i.e. a wavelength range of about 400 nm to about 680 nm.
Preferably, transmission of light in the visible spectrum is constrained or
prevented through the one or more barriers.
[0032]      In one preferred form of said embodiment, the one or more
barriers constrain or prevent transmission of light in the visible spectrum into
the pond. Preferably, in this embodiment, the one or more barriers include a
floor of the floating container. Preferably, the floor of the floating container is
positioned against the surface of the pond. Suitably, the growth of a
bioprocessing organism that photosynthesizes using wavelengths in the
visible spectrum is thereby constrained or prevented in the pond.
[0033]      Additionally or alternatively, in embodiments wherein the floating
container     comprises    separate     compartments       containing    the   first
bioprocessing organism and an additional bioprocessing organism, the one
or more barriers may constrain or prevent transmission of light in the visible
spectrum into one or more of the compartments. Preferably, the one or more
barriers are barriers that separate the compartments of the floating container.
Suitably, the growth of an organism that photosynthesizes using wavelengths
in the visible spectrum is constrained in one or more of said compartments.
Preferably the one or more compartments is a compartment comprising an
additional bioprocessing organism.
[0034]      In another embodiment,         a floating container is used        that
comprises one or more barriers that affect transmission of light in the near
infrared spectrum, i.e. a wavelength range of about 700 nm to about 1100
nm. Preferably, the one or more containers selectively transmit light in the
near infrared spectrum.
[0035]      In one preferred form of this embodiment, the one or more barriers
selectively transmit light in the near infrared spectrum into the pond.
Preferably, the one or more barriers include a floor of the floating container.
Preferably, the floor of the floating container is positioned against the surface
of the pond. Suitably, the growth of an organism that photosynthesizes using
wavelengths in the near infrared spectrum is thereby facilitated in the pond.

                                         7
[0036]      Additionally or alternatively, in embodiments wherein the floating
container     comprises     separate    compartments      containing    the    first
bioprocessing organism and an additional bioprocessing organism, the one
or more barriers may selectively transmit light in the infrared spectrum into
one or more of the compartments. Preferably, the one or more barriers are
barriers that separate the compartments of the floating container. Suitably,
the growth of a bioprocessing organism that photosynthesizes using
wavelengths in the near infrared spectrum is thereby facilitated in the one or
more compartments.        Preferably the one or more compartments is a
compartment comprising an additional bioprocessing organism.
[0037]      In certain embodiments, the method includes the further step of
using a liquid contained within one or more further containers or further
ponds as a biofeed for bioprocessing by one or more further bioprocessing
organisms in said further containers or further ponds. Said liquid may be
bioprocessed in the pond before or after bioprocessing in the one or more
further containers or further ponds. Additionally or alternatively, said liquid
may be used as a biofeed for bioprocessing in the floating container before
or after bioprocessing in the one or more further containers or further ponds.
[0038]      In one said embodiment, the one or more further containers or
further ponds is or includes a further floating container. Preferably, the further
floating container is floated on the same pond as the container containing the
first bioprocessing organism.
[0039]      In certain embodiments, the method of this aspect includes the
further step of obtaining a product produced as a result of bioprocessing
using the liquid biofeed. Suitably, the product may be: the first bioprocessing
organism or an additional bioprocessing organism contained within the
floating container; an active substance derived from or produced by the first
bioprocessing organism or an additional bioprocessing organism contained
within the floating container; and/or an substance derived from the liquid
biofeed.
[0040]      In certain    embodiments,      the  method    may   additionally     or
alternatively include the step of obtaining a product produced as a result of

                                         8
bioprocessing by an additional bioprocessing organism in the pond.
[0041]       In certain   embodiments,     the    method    may   additionally or
alternatively include the step of obtaining a product produced as a result of
bioprocessing in the one or more further containers or further ponds.
[0042]       In some embodiments, the method includes the further step of
recycling biomass and/or nutrients produced in: the floating container; the
pond; or the one or more further containers or further ponds, by transferring
or returning biomass and/or nutrients produced by bioprocessing in one or
more of said containers or ponds to one or more of said containers or ponds.
Preferably, the further step of recycling biomass and/or nutrients includes
processing a product produced as the result of bioprocessing in one or more
of said containers or ponds, prior to returning biomass and/or nutrients to
said containers or ponds. Suitably, the growth of a bioprocessing organism in
said containers or ponds is facilitated by the recycling.
[0043]       In certain such embodiments, the method includes the step of
returning biomass and/or nutrients produced as a result of bioprocessing in
the floating container to the floating container, to facilitate bioprocessing in
the floating container.
[0044]       In certain such embodiments, the method includes the step of
transferring biomass and/or nutrients produced as a result of bioprocessing
in the floating container to the pond, to facilitate bioprocessing in the pond.
[0045]       In certain such embodiments, the method includes the step of
transferring biomass and/or nutrients produced as a result of bioprocessing
in the pond to the floating container, to facilitate bioprocessing in the floating
container.
[0046]       In some embodiments the method includes the further step of
supplementing biofeed contained within the floating container, the pond,
and/or one or more further container or ponds, with a nutrient to assist with
bioprocessing. In a preferred embodiment, the method includes the step of
adding carbon dioxide to the biofeed contained within the floating container.
Said supplementing may be performed by way of the recycling of the
preceding embodiments, or in any other suitable manner.

                                        9
[0047]      In a second aspect, there is provided a bioprocessing apparatus,
comprising:
        a bioprocessing container capable of containing a first bioprocessing
organism;
        an inlet mechanism by which a liquid biofeed is transferrable to the
bioprocessing container; and
        an outlet mechanism by which the liquid biofeed and/or biomass is
removable from the bioprocessing container after bioprocessing,
        wherein the bioprocessing container is adapted for flotation on a pond,
while containing and using the liquid biofeed for bioprocessing by the first
bioprocessing organism,       and   the inlet mechanism     and/or the outlet
mechanism are adapted to transfer liquid biofeed between the bioprocessing
container and the pond.
[0048]      In an embodiment, the inlet mechanism is adapted to transfer
liquid biofeed from the pond to the bioprocessing container.
[0049]      Preferably, the apparatus is for use in the method of the first
aspect.
[0050]      Suitably the liquid biofeed transferrable to the bioprocessing
container is a water-based or aqueous medium.             In some preferred
embodiments, the liquid biofeed is waste water.
[0051]      Suitably, liquid of the pond on which the bioprocessing container
is adapted to float is or comprises water.
[0052]      Preferably, the inlet mechanism and/or the outlet mechanism is
adapted to transfer liquid biofeed between the bioprocessing container and a
pond on which the bioprocessing container is floated, whereby an additional
bioprocessing organism contained within the pond can consume a substance
within the liquid biofeed before and/or after bioprocessing by the first
bioprocessing organism.
[0053]      In preferred embodiments, the first bioprocessing organism is a
photosynthetic     or   photoactive    microorganism.  Preferably,    the   first
bioprocessing organism is an algae or cyanobacteria.
[0054]      The bioprocessing container will comprise a body within which the

                                         10
bioprocessing organism and the liquid biofeed may be contained. Suitably,
the body of the bioprocessing container will be capable of containing the
bioprocessing organism and the liquid biofeed, and facilitate floating of the
container on a liquid.
[0055]     In some preferred embodiments the barriers of the body of the
bioprocessing container are formed from or comprise a polymer or a rubber
material.
[0056]     In preferred embodiments wherein the barriers of the body the
bioprocessing container are or comprise a polymer, the polymer is selected
from the group consisting of polyvinyl chloride (PVC); acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene (ABS); and polyethylene (PE). In said embodiments, buoyancy may
be provided by gas within a polymer membrane, or by the use of a low
density polymer such as polystyrene or a urethane foam.
[0057]     In preferred wherein the barrier is formed from rubber, preferably
the rubber is a synthetic rubber. In said embodiments, buoyancy may be
provided by gas within a rubber membrane.
[0058]     The bioprocessing container may be an open or closed container.
In a preferred embodiment wherein the chamber is an open container, the
body of the container is sealed to prevent or constrain ingress of liquid when
the container is floated on a liquid. Preferably, the open container comprises
an open top or roof.
[0059]     In some embodiments the body of the bioprocessing container
further comprises compartments separated by one or more additional
barriers, e.g. walls or floors, wherein the compartments are adapted to
contain one or more additional bioprocessing organisms. Suitably, in these
embodiments, the bioprocessing container may comprise one or more
mechanisms      facilitating  transferral   of   liquid   biofeed  between    the
compartments, such as seals or valves.
[0060]     In   preferred    embodiments,      the    one    or  more  additional
bioprocessing organisms are selected from the group consisting of an algae;
a cyanobacteria; and a bacteria.
[0061]     In some embodiments, one or more barriers of the body of the

                                         11
bioprocessing container are adapted to control transmission of a wavelength
of light into the container and/or into a pond on which the container is floated.
[0062]       In some said embodiments, the wavelength of light includes the
visible spectrum, i.e. a range of about 400 nm to about 680 nm.
[0063]       In one preferred embodiment, one or more of the barriers of the
body of the bioprocessing container are adapted to constrain or prevent
transmission of light in the visible spectrum into a pond upon which the
bioprocessing container is floated. Preferably, in this embodiment the one or
more barriers of the body of the bioprocessing container is or includes a floor
of the chamber.
[0064]       In an additional or alternative embodiment, one or more of the
barriers of the body of the bioprocessing container is adapted to constrain or
prevent transmission of light in the visible spectrum into one or more
compartments of the bioprocessing container. Preferably the compartment is
a compartment of the bioprocessing chamber adapted to comprise an
additional bioprocessing organism.
[0065]       In some embodiments wherein the one or more barriers of the
body of the bioprocessing container are adapted to control transmission of a
wavelength of light into the container and/or into a pond on which the
container is floated, the wavelength of light is near infrared, i.e. in the range
of about 700 nm to about 1100 nm.
[0066]       In one preferred embodiment, one or more of the barriers of the
body of the bioprocessing container selectively transmit near infrared light
into a pond upon which the container is floated. Preferably, in this
embodiment the one or more barriers of the body of the bioprocessing
container is or includes a floor of the container.
[0067]       In an additional or alternative embodiment, one or more of the
barriers of the body of the bioprocessing container selectively transmits near
infrared light into one or more compartments of the bioprocessing container.
Preferably the compartment is a compartment of the bioprocessing container
adapted to comprise an additional bioprocessing organism.
[0068]       In some embodiments, the liquid biofeed transferrable to the

                                         12
bioprocessing container by the inlet mechanism is the liquid of the pond on
which the bioprocessing container is floated.
[0069]      Preferably, the inlet mechanism is a powered inlet mechanism,
such as comprising a pump or Archimedes screw.
[0070]      Preferably, the outlet mechanism is capable of functioning using
gravity flow. In some embodiments the outlet mechanism comprises a hose
or pipe.   In some embodiments, the outlet comprises a weir, which may
comprise a trough, to collect and/or direct the liquid from the outlet.
[0071]      In certain embodiments, the apparatus further comprises a mixing
mechanism, such as a paddle wheel, located within the bioprocessing
container, for actively mixing the liquid biofeed contained therein.
[0072]      In a third aspect, there is provided a bioprocessing system,
comprising:
       a bioprocessing apparatus, the apparatus comprising a bioprocessing
container containing a first bioprocessing organism; an inlet mechanism by
which a liquid biofeed is transferred to the bioprocessing container; and an
outlet mechanism by which the liquid biofeed and/or biomass is removed
from the bioprocessing container after bioprocessing; and
       a pond on which the bioprocessing container floats, wherein the inlet
mechanism and/or the outlet mechanism transfers liquid biofeed between the
bioprocessing container and the pond.
[0073]      Preferably, the bioprocessing apparatus is the apparatus of the
second aspect.
[0074]      Preferably, the system is for use in the method of the first aspect.
[0075]      In a preferred embodiment, the bioprocessing organism contained
within the    bioprocessing container is a photosynthetic bioprocessing
organism. Preferably, the photosynthetic bioprocessing organism is an algae
or cyanobacteria.
[0076]      In some embodiments, the algae is selected from the group
consisting of: Chlorella; Spirulina; Nannochloropsis; Nitzschia; Dunaliella;
Nannochloris; Porphyridium; Schizochytrium; Tetraselmis; Euglena; Phacus;
Chlamydomonas;          Amkistrodesmus;         Micractinium;    Scenedesmus;

                                        13
Selenastrum; Dictyosphaerium; and Volvox.
[0077]      In some preferred embodiments, the liquid of the pond comprises
one or more additional bioprocessing organisms. In preferred embodiments,
the additional bioprocessing organism is adapted for bioprocessing. In a
particularly preferred embodiment, the additional bioprocessing organism is a
biotreatment organism adapted for bioprocessing of waste water. In these
embodiments, the pond will be a wastewater treatment pond.
[0078]      Preferably, the additional bioprocessing organism is different than
the first bioprocessing organism. In preferred embodiments, the additional
bioprocessing organism is selected from the group consisting of an algae; a
cyanobacteria; and a bacteria. In embodiments wherein the additional
bioprocessing organism is a bacteria, the bacteria may be an aerobic
bacteria; an anaerobic bacteria; or a purple sulphur bacteria, although
without limitation thereto.
[0079]      In some preferred embodiments, the system further comprises an
organism recycling chamber in operable connection with the bioprocessing
container and/or the pond, for recycling the first bioprocessing organism
and/or the additional bioprocessing organism and returning biomass and/or
nutrients to the bioprocessing container and/or the pond. In one preferred
embodiment the organism recycling chamber is for recycling the first
bioprocessing organism and returning biomass and/or nutrients to the
bioprocessing container and/or the pond. In an additional or alternative
embodiment, the recycling chamber may be for recycling an additional
bioprocessing organism and returning biomass and/or nutrients to the
bioprocessing container and/or the pond. In some embodiments, the
organism recycling chamber is adapted to perform further bioprocessing of
liquid containing an organism transferred thereto.
[0080]      In some embodiments, the system further comprises a screening
mechanism operatively connected to the bioprocessing container and/or the
pond, for screening a liquid medium prior to delivery to the bioprocessing
container and/or the pond.
[0081]      In some embodiments, the system further comprises one or more

                                           14
further processing        containers   and/or processing      ponds or chambers
operatively connected to the bioprocessing container and/or the pond. In
some embodiments, the further processing containers and/or further ponds
or chambers are for bioprocessing and comprise one or more further
bioprocessing organisms.
[0082]       In one preferred embodiment, the further processing container is a
floating container. Preferably, the further floating container is located on the
pond on which the bioprocessing container containing the first bioprocessing
organism floats. In one embodiment, the further floating container is or is of
the organism recycling chamber.
[0083]       In some embodiments the system further comprises one or more
mechanisms for supplementing liquid contained within the bioprocessing
container, the pond, and/or one or more further processing containers or
further ponds, with a nutrient to assist with bioprocessing. In a preferred
embodiment, the system comprises a mechanism for adding carbon dioxide
to the liquid biofeed contained within the bioprocessing container.
[0084]       In this specification, the terms 'comprises', 'comprising', 'includes',
'including', or similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion,
such that a method, system or apparatus that comprises a list of elements
does not include those elements solely, but may well include other elements
not listed.
[0085]       It will be further appreciated that, in this specification, the indefinite
articles "a" and "an" are not to be read as singular indefinite articles or as
otherwise excluding more than one or more than a single subject to which
the indefinite article refers. For example, "an" organism includes one
organism, one or more organisms, or a plurality of organisms; and "a
container" includes one container, one or more containers, or a plurality of
containers.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0086]      To assist in understanding the invention and to enable a person
skilled in the art to put the invention into practical effect, preferred
embodiments of the invention will be described by way of example only with

                                           15
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0087]     Figure 1 is a schematic of an embodiment of a system of the
invention for wastewater processing.
[0088]     Figure 2 is a schematic of another embodiment of a system of the
invention for wastewater processing. A prototype of this embodiment has
been produced and assessed as described in the examples.
[0089]     Figure 3 is a schematic of another embodiment of a system of the
invention for wastewater processing.
[0090]     Figure 4 is a schematic of another embodiment of a system of the
invention for wastewater processing.
[0091]     Figure 5 is a schematic of another embodiment of a system of the
invention for wastewater processing.
[0092]     Figure 6 is a schematic of another embodiment of a system of the
invention for wastewater processing.
[0093]     Figure 7 is a schematic of an embodiment of a system of the
invention for bioprocessing using coal seam gas water.
[0094]     Figure 8 sets forth a comparison of photovoltaic (PV) output from
a PV array at the site of installation with light meter readings (PS) for the
prototype system described in the examples.
[0095]     Figure 9 sets forth total nitrogen levels at an inlet to the
bioprocessing container ('Main tank inlet'); an outlet from the bioprocessing
container ('Main tank outlet'); a trough for collection of water from the
bioprocessing container to direct flow to a floating clarifier ('Floating unit
trough'); and the surface of the floating clarifier ('Clarifier effluent'), for the
prototype system described in the examples.
[0096]     Figure    10 sets forth        ammonia      levels at the inlet to the
bioprocessing container ('Main tank inlet'); the outlet from the bioprocessing
container ('Main tank outlet'); the trough ('Floating unit trough'); and the
surface of the clarifier ('Clarifier effluent'), for the prototype system described
in the examples.
[0097]     Figure 11 sets forth ammonia levels on the surface of the clarifier
and comparison with available light the day of collection of the ammonia

                                           16
data, and the day before collection of the ammonia data, for the prototype
system described in the examples.
[0098]       Figure 12 sets forth nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels on the surface of
the clarifier unit and comparison with available light the day of collection of
the NOx data, and the day before collection of the NOx data, for the
prototype system described in the examples.
[0099]       Figure 13 is a photograph of settling test results on wastewater at
the inlet to the bioprocessing container, for the prototype system described in
the examples.
[0100]       Figure 14 is a photograph of settling test results on processed
wastewater at the outlet from the bioprocessing container, for the prototype
system described in the examples.
[0101]       Figure 15 sets forth dissolved oxygen in the bioprocessing
container of the prototype system              described in the      examples, and
comparison with available light, and feed pump and paddle wheel operation.
[0102]       Figure  16    sets    forth   mass     of oxygen     produced  in   the
bioprocessing container of the prototype system described in the examples,
per milmol photosynthetic light intensity.
[0103]       Figure 17 sets forth nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels at the inlet to the
bioprocessing container ('Main tank inlet'), the outlet from the bioprocessing
container ('Main tank outlet'), the trough ('Floating unit trough') and the
surface of the clarifier ('Clarifier effluent'), for the prototype system described
in the examples.
[0104]       Figure 18 sets forth total suspended solids (TSS) at the clarifier
surface and the trough (labelled 'HRAP trough' in this figure), for the system
described in the examples.
[0105]       Figure 19 sets forth total phosphorous (TP) and total suspended
solids levels (TSS) at the clarifier surface, and comparison to available light,
for the prototype system described in the examples.
[0106]       Figure 20 sets forth ammonia and total nitrogen (TN) at the
clarifier surface, and comparison to available light on the day of and the day
before sampling, for the system described in the examples.

                                          17
[0107]       Figure 21 sets forth total nitrogen (TN) and volatile suspended
solids (VSS) at the clarifier surface, and comparison to available light on the
day of and the day before sampling, for the prototype system described in
the examples.
[0108]       Figure 22 sets forth chemical oxygen demand (COD) and volatile
suspended solids (VSS) at the clarifier surface, and comparison to available
light on the day of and the day before sampling, for the prototype system
described in the examples.
[0109]       Figure 23 sets forth COD at the inlet to the bioprocessing
container ('Main tank inlet'); the outlet from the bioprocessing container
('Main tank outlet'); the trough ('Floating unit trough'); and the surface of the
clarifier ('Clarifier effluent'), and comparison to available light on the day of
and the day before sampling, for the prototype system described in the
examples.
[0110]       Figure 24 sets forth COD at the inlet to the bioprocessing
container ('Main tank inlet'); the outlet from the bioprocessing container
('Main tank outlet'); and the surface of the clarifier ('Clarifier effluent'), and
comparison to available light on the day of and the day before sampling, for
the prototype system described in the examples. Note that scale for available
light on the y-axis is decreased relative to Figure 23.
[0111]       Figure 25 sets forth the ratio of volatile suspended solids (VSS) to
suspended solids (SS) at the inlet to the bioprocessing container ('Main tank
inlet').
[0112]       Figure 26 sets forth the ratio of volatile suspended solids (VSS) to
suspended solids (SS) at the outlet to the bioprocessing container ('Main
tank outlet').
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0113]       Embodiments        of  the  present   invention  reside   in floating
bioprocessors, and associated systems and methods, as herein described.
Representative examples of embodiments of a system of the invention are
described in detail as follows. It will be understood that, the integers have
been illustrated in concise schematic form in the drawings, showing only

                                         18
those specific details that are necessary for understanding the embodiments
of the present invention, but so as not to obscure the disclosure with
excessive detail that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
art having the benefit of the present description.
[0114]      Referring to Figure 1, a typical known wastewater treatment pond
20 is depicted. This may be a natural or artificial earthen pond or an artificial
tank or large chamber. A surface area of the wastewater of pond 20 is
greater than 100 m2, such as up to multiple hectares. That is, the surface
area of pond 20 may be greater than: 100; 200; 300; 400; 500; 600; 700;
800; 900; 1000; 2000; 3000; 4000; 5000; 6000; 7000; 8000; 9000; or 10000
m2 . The wastewater treatment pond 20 receives municipal or industrial liquid
waste which is treated by aerobic, anaerobic or facultative processes.
[0115]      As depicted in Figure 1, bioprocessing container 100 floats in the
pond    20    and    provides  further  or  enhanced    wastewater   treatment.
Bioprocessing container 100 is suitably made from a material that provides
appropriate buoyancy, such as hereinbelow described.             Bioprocessing
container 100 contains algae, preferably a high rate algae photoactive using
visible light. Wastewater from pond 20 may be transferred to container 100
using a pump, Archimedes screw or other suitable liquid transfer device.
Bioprocessing container 100 provides further treatment of the wastewater
that has been treated in pond 20.
[0116]      It will be understood that bioprocessing chamber 100 forms part of
bioprocessing apparatus 10. Furthermore, bioprocessing apparatus 10 and
wastewater treatment pond 20 form part of waste water treatment system 1
that may further comprise one or more of: recycling chamber 30; screening
mechanism 40; chamber 50 in the form of a holding tank; chamber 60 in the
form of a processing pond; and chamber 70 in the form of a disinfection tank.
[0117]      As depicted in Figure 1, apparatus 10 comprises bioprocessing
container 100 as hereinabove described; inlet mechanism 200; and outlet
mechanism 300. Bioprocessing container 100 is an open container, with a
body comprising barriers in the form of floor 110 and walls 120, and an open
top 130. Floor 110 and walls 120 are formed from low density foam, for

                                        19
buoyancy. Alternatively, walls 120 may be gas-filled membranes, such as
shaped by hollow plastic forms although without limitation thereto.
[0118]      Floors 110 and walls 120 facilitate flotation of bioprocessing
chamber 100 containing algae and wastewater for bioprocessing, on the
surface of the wastewater contained of pond 20. Floor 110 of bioprocessing
container is greater than 10 m2 , and may be up to about a hectare, or even
greater. That is, the floor may be greater than: 10; 25; 50; 75; 100; 200; 300;
400; 500; 600; 700; 800; 900; 1000; 2000; 3000; 4000; 5000; 6000; 7000;
8000; 9000; or 10000 M2 . The specific size of the floor, and the container as
a whole, can be suitably adjusted based on the surface area of pond 20.
[0119]     The body of bioprocessing chamber 100 may further comprise
additional barriers (not shown in Figure 1). By way of non-limiting example,
the additional barriers may be used to form multiple compartments within
bioprocessing container 100. Multiple compartments within bioprocessing
chamber 100 can be used to separate additional microorganisms from the
algae contained within bioprocessing container 100.
[0120]      Furthermore, one or more barriers of the body of bioprocessing
container 100 may have particular light transmission characteristics. By way
of one non-limiting example, light of a wavelength in the visible spectrum, i.e.
about 400 nm to about 680 nm, may be incapable or substantially incapable
of transmission through floor 110, walls 120, and/or one or more additional
barriers of bioprocessing container 100. Where visible light is constrained or
prevented from transmission through these barriers, the growth of an
unwanted microorganism that photosynthesizes using visible light can be
accordingly constrained or prevented.
[0121]      It will be appreciated that where transmission of visible light
through floor 110 is prevented, unwanted growth of algae of bioprocessing
container 100 may be constrained or prevented within wastewater contained
in pond 20. It will be further appreciated that the placement of bioprocessing
container 100 on pond 20, and the relative sizes of bioprocessing container
100 and pond 20, can influence the degree to which unwanted photoactive
microorganism growth is constrained in pond 20 by bioprocessing container

                                         20
100. For example, the degree of constraint may be maximised in a scenario
wherein floor 110 of container 100 covers all or a majority of a surface of
pond 20 that would otherwise be exposed to sunlight.
[0122]       By way of another non-limiting example, floor 110, walls 120,
and/or one or more additional barriers of bioprocessing chamber 100 may
selectively transmit light of a particular wavelength, for example near infrared
light,  i.e. in the range of about 700 nm to about 1100 nm. Where near
infrared light is selectively transmitted through these barriers, the growth of a
desired microorganism that photosynthesizes using near infrared light can be
accordingly facilitated or encouraged.
[0123]       It will be appreciated that where near infrared light is selectively
transmitted through floor 110, growth of a desired microorganism within the
wastewater contained in pond 20 can be facilitated. Similar to as described
above, it will be further appreciated that, in embodiments wherein near
infrared light is selectively transmitted through floor 110 of bioprocessing
container 100, the placement of bioprocessing container 100 on pond 20,
and the relative size of bioprocessing container 100 and pond 20 can
influence the degree to which desired microorganism growth is facilitated in
pond 20 by bioprocessing container 100. For example, the degree to which
desired microorganism growth is facilitated may be maximised in a scenario
wherein floor 110 covers all or a majority of a surface of pond 20 that would
otherwise be exposed to direct sunlight.
[0124]       As depicted in Figure 1 by arrows, bioprocessing container 100 is
operatively connected with inlet mechanism 200 and outlet mechanism 300.
Inlet mechanism 200 is a powered inlet in the form of a pump, such as a
peristaltic pump. Outlet mechanism 300 is in the form of a pipe and water is
removed from bioprocessing container 100 by outlet mechanism 300 using
gravity flow. As pictured in Figure 1, bioprocessing container 100 is further
operatively connected to recycling chamber 30 in the form of an algae
recycling tank that may be a clarifier.
[0125]       Bioprocessing     apparatus 10    and/or  system    1 may further
comprise a mixing mechanism 400, such as a paddle wheel, located within

                                         21
bioprocessing container 100. In some embodiments, the mixing mechanism
400 may be attached to the bioprocessing container 100.                   In these
embodiments, the buoyancy of the bioprocessing container will be suitable to
accommodate the mixing mechanism 400. In some embodiments, the mixing
mechanism may be located on a floating raft within the bioprocessing
container 100. The mixing mechanism may additionally or alternatively be
fixed to another suitable structure. In embodiments wherein the mixing
mechanism is fixed to another structure, it should remain in a substantially
fixed position with respect to bioprocessing container 100.
[0126]      As depicted in Figure 1, screening mechanism 40 is in the form of
a metallic mesh screen; chamber 50 is in the form of a holding tank; and
chamber 60 is in the form of a pre-treatment wastewater bioprocessing pond.
These respective components are operatively connected, for example by
way of pipe, channel, or hose.
[0127]      In use, system 1 performs bioprocessing of or using waste water.
Waste water influent passes through screening mechanism 40, to tank 50,
then subsequently to pre-treatment pond 60. Transfer of waste water
between these components may be by way of gravity flow, or powered, for
example by pump. Pre-processed waste water is transferred from pre
treatment pond 60 to pond 20, e.g. by way of pipe, channel, or hose, which
may be by way of gravity flow or powered, for example by pump.
Bioprocessing of the waste water transferred to pond 20 by a biotreatment
organism contained of pond 20 is performed.             After bioprocessing, pre
processed waste water transferred to pond 20 is partially purified. It will be
appreciated that,       during  bioprocessing,   significant  replication   of the
biotreatment organism in pond 20 will typically occur.
[0128]      In use, wastewater that has been subject to bioprocessing in pond
20 is transferred to bioprocessing container 100 by inlet mechanism 200.
The wastewater        is then    used as a     liquid   biofeed  for subsequent
bioprocessing by the algae contained in bioprocessing container 100. After
bioprocessing in bioprocessing container 100, the wastewater is at least
partially purified. In particular, bioprocessing by the algae in bioprocessing

                                           22
container 100 removes further impurities that remain after bioprocessing in
pond 20. It will be appreciated that, during bioprocessing, significant
replication of the algae in bioprocessing container 100 will typically occur.
[0129]       In use, a portion of the algae and/or wastewater contained within
bioprocessing container 100 is transferred to algae recycling tank 30, as
indicated by arrows in Figure 1. In use, algae recycling tank 30 processes
algae and/or waste water transferred thereto, and returns biomass, nutrients,
and/or processed waste water to bioprocessing container 100. Recycling
tank 30 may also return biomass, nutrients, and/or processed waste water to
pond 20. Transfer to and from algae recycling tank 30 may be by way of, for
example, pipe, channel, or hose, and may be powered (e.g. by pump) or by
way of gravity flow. It will be appreciated that, at least in some embodiments,
further impurities may be removed from wastewater transferred from
bioprocessing container 100 to recycling tank 30, by bioprocessing that
occurs in algae recycling tank 30.
[0130]       Biomass and/or nutrients returned to bioprocessing container 100
and, optionally pond 20, from algal recycling tank 30 will typically enhance
growth and/or reproduction of the algae in bioprocessing container 100,
and/or the additional bioprocessing organism in pond 20.
[0131]       In use, after bioprocessing in bioprocessing container 100, outlet
mechanism 300 transfers processed wastewater to disinfection chamber 70
in the form of a tank. In use, disinfection tank 70 removes further impurities
from water processed by pond 20 and bioprocessing container 100.
[0132]       As     hereinbefore    described,  suitably,  in   use,   flotation   of
bioprocessing container 100 on the wastewater of pond 20 may affect
transmission      of   light  through   bioprocessing   container    100   into  the
wastewater of pond 20. As such, in use, bioprocessing container 100 may be
strategically placed within pond 20 to control growth of organisms within at
least a section of pond 20.
[0133]       It will be further appreciated that, in such examples, transmission
of light in the visible spectrum, i.e. between about 400 nm and about 680 nm
into one or more additional compartments (if present) defined by one or more

                                        23
barriers of the body of bioprocessing container 100 can be constrained or
prevented.
[0134]     The above arrangements may, respectively, prevent or at least
constrain growth of organisms photosynthetically active in the visible
spectrum in at least a section of pond 20, or within the one or more additional
compartments of the body of bioprocessing container 100. By way of non
limiting example, this arrangement may prevent or at least constrain growth
of the algae contained within bioprocessing container 100, in at least this
section of pond 20, or in these additional compartments of bioprocessing
container 100, respectively.
[0135]      By way     of another     non-limiting  example,     as   hereinabove
described, floor 110, walls 120, and/or one or more additional barriers of
bioprocessing container 100 may selectively transmit light of particular
wavelength, for example near infrared light, i.e. in the range of about 700 nm
to about 1100 nm.
[0136]      It will be    appreciated    that,   in such   examples,     selective
transmission of light in the near infrared spectrum into at least a section of
pond 20, e.g. above which bioprocessing chamber 100 is positioned, can be
achieved. It will be further appreciated that, in such examples, selective
transmission of light in the near infrared spectrum into one or more additional
compartments (if present) defined by one or more barriers of the body of
bioprocessing container 100, can be achieved.
[0137]     The above arrangements may, respectively, facilitate growth of
organisms photosynthetically active in the near infrared spectrum in pond 20,
or within the one or more additional compartments of the body of
bioprocessing    container   100.   By way       of non-limiting   example,   this
arrangement may facilitate growth of infrared utilising bacteria contained
within bioprocessing container 100, in pond 20, or in these additional
compartments, respectively.
[0138]      Figure  2    shows   another    embodiment     of   system    1. This
embodiment is as described with reference to Figure 1, with the exception
that algae recycling tank 30 is in the form of a floating clarifier located within

                                        24
pond 20. It will be appreciated that floating clarifier 30 of this embodiment of
system 1 comprises an additional floating bioprocessing container, in which
an additional bioprocessing organism in the form of or comprising algae
transferred from bioprocessing 100 is contained.
[0139]      Similar  as   described   with   reference    to  Figure   1 in   this
embodiment, in use, a portion of algae and wastewater contained within
bioprocessing container 100 is transferred to floating clarifier 30, as indicated
by arrows in Figure 2. Floating clarifier 30 processes algae and/or waste
water transferred thereto, and returns biomass, nutrients, and/or processed
waste water to bioprocessing container 100. Floating clarifier 30 may also
return biomass, nutrients, and/or processed waster water to pond 20.
[0140]      Figure 3 shows another embodiment of system 1 of the invention.
This embodiment is as described with reference to Figure 1, with the
exception that processing tank 60 is positioned to accept processed waste
water from bioprocessing chamber 100 via outlet mechanism 300 for further
processing in processing tank 60, prior to subsequent disinfection in
disinfection chamber 70.
[0141]      Figure 4 shows another embodiment of system 1 of the invention.
In Figure 5, after screening by screening mechanism 40, waste water is first
transferred to a chamber 50 which in this embodiment is in the form of
anaerobic pond or anaerobic lagoon 50 and bioprocessed by an additional
biotreatment organism located therein, and subsequently transferred to pond
20, which in this example is in the form of a facultative wastewater pond 20,
for further bioprocessing as hereinabove described.
[0142]      After bioprocessing in pond 20, waste water is transferred to
bioprocessing     container    100   of    bioprocessing     apparatus    10   for
bioprocessing, as hereinabove described. Additionally, after bioprocessing
using apparatus 10, waste water is transferred to chamber 60 which, as
depicted in Figure 4, is in the form of a maturation pond.
[0143]      Figure 5 shows another embodiment of system 1 of the invention.
This embodiment is as described with reference to Figure 4, with the
exception that waste water passes directly from lagoon 50 to bioprocessing

                                      25
container 100.
[0144]       Figure 6 shows another embodiment of system 1 of the invention.
This embodiment is as described with reference to Figure 1. However, in
particular regard to bioprocessing apparatus 10, in addition to floor 110 and
walls 120, the body of bioprocessing container 100 comprises an additional
barrier in the form of wall 140.
[0145]      Additional wall    140 separates   bioprocessing container      into
compartments       1OA and     100B. Additional wall    140 allows    selective
transmission of light in the near infrared wavelength into bioprocessing
container compartment 1001B.
[0146]       Bioprocessing chamber compartment 1O0A contains the algae as
hereinabove described with reference to Figures 1 and 3. Bioprocessing
chamber compartment 100B contains an additional biotreatment organism in
the form of bacteria photosynthetically active in the near infrared spectrum.
As depicted in Figure 6, the additional biotreatment organism is a purple
cyanobacteria.
[0147]      As indicated by the respective arrows, waste water is transferred
from holding tank 50 to bioprocessing container compartment 100B, wherein
the waste water is bioprocessed by the purple cyanobacteria. Subsequently,
waste water is transferred from bioprocessing compartment 100B to pond 20
for further bioprocessing using a suitable transfer mechanism, such as a
pipe, hose, or pump.
[0148]      After bioprocessing in pond 20, waste water is transferred to
bioprocessing container 1OCA of bioprocessing apparatus 10 by inlet
mechanism       200 for further bioprocessing, similar to as hereinabove
described. Furthermore, after bioprocessing in bioprocessing container 1OCA
using apparatus 10, waste water is transferred to further bioprocessing pond
60, and subsequently transferred for disinfection in disinfection container 70,
as hereinabove described with reference to Figure 3.
[0149]      Although the above embodiments have been described in the
context of biotreatment for wastewater treatment to achieve wastewater
purification, it will be appreciated that the above described system (or

                                       26
systems similar thereto incorporating modifications that will be readily
apparent to the skilled person) can be used for bioprocessing to produce
products such as the first organism or an additional organism contained
within the first chamber; an active substance derived from or produced by the
first organism or an additional organism contained within the first chamber;
and/or an active substance derived from the liquid medium.
[0150]      By way of example, as hereinabove described, growth and
replication of the first bioprocessing organism in the form of algae contained
within bioprocessing container 100 (or bioprocessing chamber 100A, in the
case of the embodiment of system 1 exemplified with reference to Figure 6),
and additional bioprocessing organisms present in pond 20, one or more
additional further chambers (or bioprocessing chamber 100B, in the case of
the embodiment of system 1 exemplified with reference to Figure 6), occurs
during bioprocessing using the systems described herein. In additional to
potential use in recycling as herein described, it will be readily appreciated
that these bioprocessing organisms or biomass derived therefrom can be
used as a product for a range of applications. By way of non-limiting
example, the bioprocessing organisms or biomass can potentially be used as
feedstock for biofuel, and in production of fertilisers and other additives.
[0151]      It will be further appreciated that bioprocessing systems of the
invention can be used in contexts other than wastewater treatment as
hereinabove described.
[0152]      By way of further example in this respect, reference is made to
Figure 7, within which a further system 2 of the invention is depicted. In
Figure 7, pond 20 is a typical known coal seam gas (CSG) water storage
pond. Water contained within CSG water storage pond 20 will typically
contain relatively high levels of salts and minerals, and may contain other
nutrients and/or impurities. Floating on pond 20 is bioprocessing apparatus
10, comprising bioprocessing container 100 as hereinabove described. As
depicted in Figure 7, bioprocessing container 100 comprises a halotolerant
algae, for example Dunaliella or Asteromonas spp.
[0153]      As depicted in Figure 7, CSG water of pond 20 is transferred to

                                           27
bioprocessing container 100 of bioprocessing apparatus 10. CSG water
transferred to bioprocessing container 100 is then used as a biofeed for the
halotolerant algae contained therein. As a result, high levels of replication
and      growth    of  the   halotolerant   algae occurs.    Replicated   algae    is
subsequently        removed    from    bioprocessing   container   100   by   outlet
mechanism 300, and used as biomass in the product of desired products,
such as for biofuel and/or fertiliser production. Algal harvest may be by any
suitable strategy. By way of non-limiting example, algal harvest may be
performed using assisted clarification (e.g. using a coagulant or other
suitable mechanism); or filtration (e.g. using a cloth filter or specialized
filtration membrane).
[0154]         Furthermore,    bioprocessing    of  CSG    water    transferred   to
bioprocessing container 100 using the halotolerant algae contained therein
may result in at least partial removal of unwanted salts, minerals, or
impurities from the CSG water. CSG water that is thereby processed or
purified may be further processed similar to as hereinabove described with
reference to Figures 1-6, and/or used in suitable applications such as coal
washing, dust suppression, construction or landscaping and revegetation
application, or as drinking water for stock.
[0155]         Additionally, as depicted in Figure 7, floor 110 is opaque to light,
and placed to overlie the majority of the surface of pond 20 that would
otherwise be exposed to light. Such placement and structure of floor 110
constrains unwanted growth and replication of photosynthetic organisms in
pond 20, including unwanted growth of the halotolerant algae contained
within bioprocessing container 100, in pond 20.
                                      EXAMPLES
          To assist the skilled person to readily understand and put the
invention into practice, the following non-limiting examples are provided.
Example 1. Pilot plant trial
[0156]        This Example describes a pilot plant incorporating an embodiment
of a bioprocessing system as described herein.
          Introduction

                                        28
[0157]      It has been identified for the current invention that many
wastewater treatment ponds in Australia have been designed as facultative
ponds without maturation ponds. The traditional method to upgrade these
pond plants would be to provide new earthen shallow ponds which are very
capital intensive. In addition, many of the sites do not have suitable available
area for these expansions. The sites generally treat wastewater from small
towns.
[0158]      This led to the concept of a floating algae bioreactor (described
elsewhere herein as a 'bioprocessing container') as a potential alternative.
The hypothesis being that as such an algae bioreactor is typically shallow, it
could float on the top of a pond and have minimal impact on the capacity of
the pond.
[0159]      Twin facultative pond systems often have high algae content in
their influent, particularly in the summer months. The high solids content can
cause the effluent to fail licence conditions. Pond systems typically rely on
the symbiosis of the algae and the bacteria to treat the pollutants in the
wastewater. Therefore, to provide oxygen for the area covered with the
floating unit, it was decided to allow the oxygen rich water to flow under the
floating bioreactor to enable the bacteria underneath to metabolise in both
aerobic and anoxic conditions. That is, ammonia present will be oxidised to
NOx in aerobic conditions, which in addition to the NOx from the floating unit
will provide and anoxic zone where and when oxygen is depleted.
[0160]      The pilot system was installed at a sewerage treatment plant
(STP) in Queensland, Australia, managed by an operator of several pond
treatment plants, some in need of improved performance as they have
difficulty meeting compliance due to high algae concentrations or they have a
reduced treatment capacity.
[0161]      The trial was undertaken to determine the potential to enhance the
treatment capacity and licence compliance of existing pond systems with a
relatively low capital and operating cost method. In addition, the pilot plant
offered the opportunity to provide better understanding of pond operation and
algae applications for wastewater treatment.

                                           29
        Expected outcomes
[0162]      The pilot bioprocessing system was anticipated to provide one or
more of the following, in the context of the sewerage treatment plant:
        - Improved nitrogen removal;
        - Reduction of suspended solids in the effluent, resulting in reduced
operating costs for the micro-filtration plant on site;
        - Increased capture rate of algae biomass by encouraging growth of
strain(s) of algae that is able to settle;
        - Improved disinfection levels within the effluent, in comparison to the
existing lagoon system;
        - Effective energy usage - such that it is able to be powered by solar
energy, and;
        - More stable treatment quality throughout the year.
        Description of sewerage treatment plant
[0163]      The targeted STP is located in Boonah, QLD, and operated by
Queensland Urban Utilities. The STP serves an equivalent population (EP) of
over 4,370, and treats approximately 593 kL/d of wastewater.
[0164]      The STP consists of an aerated lagoon treatment system,
comprising a primary and secondary lagoon operating in series.
[0165]      The treated effluent is pumped to various locations of the plant,
including:
        - Membrane filtration (MF) system which includes two (2) MF units
operating in parallel to produce recycled water;
        - Onsite vetiver grass area for on-site irrigation reuse,
        - Emergency storage lagoon during over capacity; or, overflowed to
Teviot Brook in emergencies only.
[0166]      The    existing  STP     achieves   a   total effluent nitrogen  and
phosphorous concentration of 10.5 mg/L and 5.4 mg/L, respectively.
        Pilot configuration
[0167]      There are many parameters that affect the operation of a pond
system.     Key parameters       include surface     area, residence    time and
pond/chamber depth. Given that the key interest in the pilot plant is the

                                         30
interaction of algae in the treatment process and potential capacity increases
by intensifying the algae stage, it was decided that the depth of the floating
bioreactor was more important than the surface area for this pilot study. By
way of elaboration, the depth defines how much of the reactor is exposed to
light and oxygen transfer from the surface, and depth is therefore particularly
important to simulate the facultative process.
[0168]       For the pilot, the pond system was simulated with a large tank
divided into two halves to enable an estimation of a typical facultative pond
system. The floating bioreactor was sized and placed in the large tank
('pond') to as best as is practical simulate a location of an intended full-scale
application.
[0169]       Additionally, a further bioprocessing container in the form of a
floating clarifier unit was used for the pilot system. The use of a floating
clarifier unit overcomes difficulties associated with locating a conventional
external clarifier unit, including difficulties in locating such a unit precisely
enough in the context of the overall system. Floating clarifiers should also be
relatively easy to scale-up for use outside of the pilot system. To maintain the
biomass concentration and to promote a settling biomass, algal biomass is
recycled from the bottom of the floating clarifier into the floating bioreactor.
[0170]       Operating parameters of:
        - the pond feed pump, pumping wastewater into the pond containing
the floating bioreactor;
        - the floating bioreactor (FBR) feed pump, pumping wastewater from
the pond to the floating bioreactor;
        - the recycle pump, pumping algae accumulated in the clarifier to the
floating bioreactor;
        - the paddle, mixing the contents of the floating bioreactor; and
        - the waste pump, removing excess algae biomass from the clarifier to
waste are set forth in Table 1.
[0171]       During the initial trial period, the inlet of the main tank was
pumped with wastewater from the beginning of the primary lagoon of the
STP lagoon system. The floating bioreactor takes its feed from the end of the

                                       31
pond. The floating clarifier returns the treated flow upstream of the floating
bioreactor.
[0172]      Algae biomass is made up of photosynthetic organisms that rely
upon visible light to function. The specific algae accumulating in the pilot has
not been characterised in detail, beyond comprising green microalgae. In
order to determine the impact of light intensity on bioprocessing, a lux meter
was installed. A factor of 0.0185 as reported on the Apogee website was
used as the conversion factor for the conversion of lux readings to micro
mole of photosynthetic light for sunlight. For further reporting on a daily basis
the conversion is reported in milmol to simplify the numbers.
[0173]      The STP site has a photovoltaic (PV) array that is monitored.
Photovoltaics use a slightly different spread of the light spectrum compared
to photosynthetic organisms; however, the correlation is close. To determine
the reliability of the lux meter for use as an indicator of the available
photosynthetic light, the amount of light recorded by the lux meter was
compared to the normalised power output from the PV array.
[0174]      Figure 8 shows the comparison between PV output and the light
meter PS readings. As the results indicate relatively close matches given the
different spectra, it has been assumed that the light readings from the lux
meter may be used as a strong indicator of the available light.
        Results
        - Reduction of nitrogen and ammonia
[0175]      The pilot system has demonstrated the ability to achieve low
levels of dissolved total nitrogen and ammonia, as shown in Figures 9 and
10.
[0176]      The feed concentrations of nitrogen to the floating bioreactor have
been at predominantly low levels. The feed to the floating unit includes the
recycled flow from the floating unit clarifier which was intended to dilute the
influent concentration.     However, for the      purposes    of this trial,  the
combination of the sewage being diluted at the inlet to the main pond system
and the return flow upstream of the floating unit intake have resulted in the
floating unit becoming nitrogen limited.

                                         32
[0177]        Even so, lower total nitrogen and ammonia levels were generally
achieved at the outlet of the floating bioreactor as compared to the inlet after
processing in the bioreactor, and still lower total nitrogen and ammonia levels
were observed at the clarifier surface after processing in the clarifier.
[0178]       Overall, the average reduction in ammonia between the floating
bioreactor inlet and the clarifier surface was observed to be about 81%. It is
important to note that this reduction was achieved during the winter months
in south east Queensland. The ability to remove ammonia during the winter
months is particularly important as literature and experience indicates that
nitrification is lost during the winter and spring months in facultative pond
systems. It is possible that a similar result would occur closer to the poles if
the floating unit is insulated from the bulk water of the pond below.
[0179]       Further to the above, Figure 11 and Figure 12 set out the
relationship of ammonia and oxidised nitrogen (NOx) at the clarifier surface
with the light intensity of the testing days and the light intensity on the day
prior to testing. This data indicated that samples taken earlier in the day are
more reliant upon the available light the previous day. Samples taken in the
middle of the day were more closely linked to the light available on the day of
sampling.
         - Suspended solids
[0180]       The use of an algae recycle from a clarifier has successfully
established a predominantly settling algae biomass as previously described
by Park and Craggs (2014) Effect of algal recycling rate on the performance
of Pediastrum boryanum dominated wastewater treatment high rate algal
pond. Water Science & Technology, 70.8,pp 1299-1306.
[0181]       The concentration of suspended solids in the prototype system
effluent has been higher than anticipated. This is possibly due to the extent
of the area near the discharge being unshaded. Notably, the level of
suspended solids has been preliminarily observed to be reduced since the
floating bioreactor anchor was adjusted to reduce the area exposed to light.
[0182]       Despite the elevated levels of suspended solids in the effluent, the
settleability of the solids is improved compared to the solids in the influent

                                        33
water. This is demonstrated in Figures 13 and 14. Figure 13 shows the
settling test for the influent to the pilot system as compared to Figure 14
which shows the settling test for the effluent from the pilot system. The
effluent clearly has a more readily settling solid content which produces a
less concentrated residual solids following clarification.
        - Effective energy usage
[0183]      Algae is the main source of dissolved oxygen (DO) in facultative
ponds systems. By intensifying the algae biomass growth phase it is possible
to achieve supersaturated oxygen levels in the algae bioreactor during
daylight hours at very low energy costs.
[0184]       In a pond system the retention time in ponds is relatively high, at
approximately 20 days. This provides the opportunity to use the pond to
balance the flow such that the daily flow is treated during daylight hours
through the floating algae bioreactor. Therefore, the feed pump and mixer
only need to operate during daylight hours when solar power is available. A
small battery system would be required due to the shape of the power
generation curve to ensure the mixer could start prior to sunrise and continue
for a short time after sunset.
[0185]      The mixer needs to operate prior to sunrise to ensure the algae
are in suspension when sunlight becomes available. It is desirable to
continue mixing after sunset so that the algae and bacteria to utilise the
oxygen for continued heterotrophic treatment of the water.
        - Oxygen production
[0186]       Figure 15 shows that the DO level in the floating bioreactor follows
the available light with a clear lag. The paddle wheel trendline shown at a
higher level represents the paddle wheel being offline, whilst the lower level
represents the wheel being online. The data indicates a strong link to
available light and no definable link to the paddle wheel operation.
[0187]      The nitrogen limitation has restricted the ability to measure the
impact of other parameters throughout the pilot trial period to date. This has
been specifically limiting for pathogen reduction potential and oxygen
production based on available light.

                                         34
[0188]      Nevertheless, Figure 16 shows the oxygen production at one (1)
minute intervals compared the available light. This does not consider the
oxygen demand in the form of heterotrophic activity by algae and/or bacteria.
Without data on the demand, it is not possible to calculate the actual oxygen
production for the available light. However, the data suggests that the
oxygen production is limited by the DO in the bioreactor. The oxygen
production per unit of photosynthetic light is high when the DO in the
bioreactor is low but is very low when maintaining a DO level.
        Limitations
[0189]      The pilot plant has limitations in that it is not possible to match all
the parameters of the full-scale plant, particularly obtaining the right
correlation with plant hydraulics and solids handling.
[0190]      The nitrogen limitation observed in this pilot study has caused the
biomass to become benthic and this has caused problems in recycling the
biomass for appropriate biomass selection. Additionally, the initial decision to
take the influent from the beginning of the main plant pond has exacerbated
the nutrient limitation. This is because the influent is diluted in the main pond
prior to entering the pilot plant.
[0191]      The floating bioreactor used a transparent paddle which was
hoped to limit the light shading for the small pilot unit. However, the paddle
design was found to have a velocity distribution flaw which may have
affected mixing within the bioreactor.
[0192]      The recycle pump was initially blocked by debris falling into the
floating bioreactor. This was resolved by reducing the size of the recycle pipe
to prevent the debris being drawn into the pipe.
[0193]      Establishing    a   suitable  solids   wasting    regime    has   been
problematic to date due to the nutrient limitations causing issues with
biomass generation calculations.
        Future work
[0194]      The current testing program is to be completed with addition of a
control bioreactor to assess the overall treatment improvement using the
current floating bioreactor.

                                        35
[0195]      The next step is to change the influent feed to the large tanks to
primary settled sewage to better represent a pond system during operation
and thus identify the impact on nitrogen removal.
[0196]      The residence time of the larger tanks will be reduced to
progressively represent an over-loaded pond system. The capacity increase
achievable by the use of floating algae bioreactors will be determined. It is
anticipated that as the larger tanks become more overloaded, the increased
nutrient levels will boost the performance of the floating algae bioreactor.
        Conclusions
[0197]      The pilot to date has clearly demonstrated that low nitrogen levels
can be achieved at the clarifier discharge using a floating algae bioreactor on
a pond system. The data also clearly demonstrates that the algal biomass is
responsible for the elevated oxygen levels, not the mixer. This in turn allows
high oxygen production to be achieved with low power mixing devices.
[0198]      The photosynthesis method of producing oxygen on a pond
system provides the opportunity to use the pond volume to balance flows
and allow high quality treatment to be conducted during daylight hours when
solar power is available. This would vary depending upon the number of
days of clear sunshine for a particular location.
[0199]      The results to date indicate that intensified algae biomass
production in floating bioreactors is able to produce low ammonia effluent.
Example 2. Further data collected during pilot plant trial
[0200]      This example sets out further data collected during the pilot plant
trial conducted as described in Example 1, which was not dealt with in detail
in that example.
[0201]      During assessment of the pilot system described in Example 1,
the following parameters:
        - Chemical Oxygen Demand COD (mg/L);
        - Dissolved Oxygen (DO) (mg/L);
        - BOD5 (mg/L);
        - Suspended Solids (mg/L);
        - Volatile Suspended Solids (VSS) (mg/L);

                                        36
        - Ammonia (mg/L);
        - Nitrate + Nitrate (mg/L);
        - Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) (mg/L);
        - Total Nitrogen (mg/L); and
        - Total Phosphorous (mg/L),
        were measured at regular intervals over the period 4 April 2017 to 19
September 2017, at locations within the system including the inlet and the
outlet to the floating bioreactor; and at the clarifier surface. Additionally, data
on the daily photosynthetic photons (m- 2 ) was collected on both the same
day and the day before measurement of the above parameters.
[0202]       In addition to the data provided in Figures 9-12 and 15-16
discussed in Example 1, the collected information was used to produce the
further charts provided as Figures 17-26, incorporating respective subsets of
the above parameters. This analysis provides for an assessment of the
degree to which processing in the floating bioreactor and/or the clarifier
affects the level of various organic substances in the wastewater; and the
degree to which available photosynthetic light affects these parameters.
                       STATEMENTS OF EMBODIMENTS
[0203]       This following are statements of some preferred embodiments of
the invention.
[0204]       (1) A method of bioprocessing using a liquid biofeed, including the
steps of:
        floating a container comprising a first bioprocessing organism on a
pond comprising an additional bioprocessing organism;
        placing a liquid biofeed within the container, whereby the first
bioprocessing organism consumes a substance within the liquid biofeed; and
        transferring the liquid biofeed between the container and the pond
before and/or after bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing organism,
whereby the additional bioprocessing organism consumes a substance
within the liquid biofeed,
        to thereby bioprocess using the liquid biofeed.
[0205]       (2) The method of (1), wherein the liquid biofeed is wastewater.

                                        37
[0206]       (3) The method of (2), wherein the substance consumed by the
first bioprocessing organism        is a wastewater contaminant,       and   the
wastewater is at least partially purified by consumption of the substance by
the first bioprocessing organism.
[0207]       (4) The method of (2)-(3), wherein the substance consumed by
the additional bioprocessing organism is a wastewater contaminant, and the
wastewater is at least partially purified by consumption of the substance by
the additional bioprocessing organism.
[0208]       (5) The method of (1)-(4),       wherein the first bioprocessing
organism is a photoactive organism.
[0209]       (6) The method of (1)-(5),       wherein the first bioprocessing
organism is photosynthetically active with wavelengths of light in the visible
spectrum.
[0210]       (7) The method of (1)-(6),       wherein the first bioprocessing
organism is an algae or cyanobacteria.
[0211]       (8) The method of (7), wherein the first bioprocessing organism is
a microalgae selected from the group consisting of: Chlorella; Spirulina;
Nannochloropsis;       Nitzschia;   Dunaliella;  Nannochloris;    Porphyridium;
Schizochytrium;       Tetraselmis;    Euglena;     Phacus;    Chlamydomonas;
Amkistrodesmus;           Micractinium;       Scenedesmus;        Selenastrum;
Dictyosphaerium; and Volvox.
[0212]       (9) The method of (1)-(8), wherein the additional bioprocessing
organism is selected from the group consisting of an algae; a cyanobacteria;
and a bacteria.
[0213]       (10) The method of (1)-(9), wherein the additional bioprocessing
organism is different than the first bioprocessing organism.
[0214]       (11)  The method of (1)-(10), wherein the floating container
comprises one or more additional bioprocessing organisms, wherein the
additional bioprocessing organism is different than the first bioprocessing
organism.
[0215]       (12) The method of (11), wherein the additional bioprocessing
organism is selected from the group consisting of an algae; a cyanobacteria;

                                        38
and a bacteria.
[0216]      (13) The method of (11)-(12), wherein the additional bioprocessing
organism     is   a biotreatment   organism     adapted    for    bioprocessing of
wastewater.
[0217]      (14) The method of (11)-(13), including the step of containing the
first bioprocessing organism and the additional bioprocessing organism
within separate compartments of the floating container.
[0218]      (15) The method of (14), including the step of transferring the
liquid biofeed to the compartment containing the first bioprocessing organism
for bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing organism, before or after
transferring the liquid medium to the compartment containing the additional
bioprocessing organism for bioprocessing by the additional bioprocessing
organism.
[0219]      (16) The method of (1)-(15), wherein the pond and/or the floating
container comprises one or more additional bioprocessing organisms that
are algae, and the algae is selected from the group consisting of: Chlorella;
Spirulina;      Nannochloropsis;     Nitzschia;       Dunaliella;     Nannochloris;
Porphyridium;       Schizochytrium;      Tetraselmis;        Euglena;      Phacus;
Chlamydomonas;           Amkistrodesmus;        Micractinium;        Scenedesmus;
Selenastrum; Dictyosphaerium; and Volvox.
[0220]      (17) The method of (1)-16), wherein the pond and/or the floating
container comprises one or more additional bioprocessing organisms that
are cyanobacteria, and the cyanobacteria is selected from the group
consisting      of:  filamentous    anoxygenic        phototrophs;     phototrophic
acidobacteria; phototrophic heliobacteria; purple sulfur bacteria; purple non
sulfur bacteria; green sulfur bacteria; and green non-sulfur bacteria.
[0221]      (18) The method of (1)-(17), including the step of actively mixing
the contents of the floating container, to facilitate bioprocessing in the floating
container.
[0222]      (19) The method of (1)-(18), including the step of controlling
growth of a photoactive organism by use of the floating container wherein the
floating container comprises one or more barriers which affect transmission

                                         39
of light.
[0223]      (20) The method of (19), wherein the growth of the organism is
controlled within the pond.
[0224]      (21) The method of (19) or (20), wherein the growth of the
organism is controlled within the floating container.
[0225]      (22) The method of (19)-(21), wherein the organism for which
growth is controlled is the first bioprocessing organism, one or more of the
one or more additional bioprocessing organisms, or a further organism.
[0226]      (23) The method of (19)-(22), wherein the floating container
comprises one or more barriers which affect transmission of light in the
visible spectrum, and transmission of light in the visible spectrum is
controlled through the one or more barriers, to thereby control of the growth
of the organism.
[0227]      (24) The method of (23), wherein the one or more barriers
constrain or prevent transmission of light in the visible spectrum.
[0228]      (25) The method of (23), wherein the one or more barriers
selectively transmit light in the near infrared spectrum.
[0229]      (26) The method of (23)-(25), wherein the one or more barriers
include a floor of the floating container positioned adjacent the surface of the
pond, and the one or more barriers affect transmission of light into the pond,
to thereby control the growth of an organism in the pond.
[0230]      (27) The method of (23)-(26), wherein the floating container
comprises     separate    compartments      containing  the  first  bioprocessing
organism and an additional bioprocessing organism, and the one or more
barriers affect transmission of light in the visible spectrum into one or more of
the compartments, to thereby control growth of an organism in one or more
of the compartments.
[0231]      (28) The method of (1)-(27), including the step of obtaining a
product produced as a result of bioprocessing using the liquid biofeed.
[0232]      (29) The method of (1)-(28), including the step of recycling
biomass and/or nutrients produced in: the floating container; the pond; or one
or more further containers or further ponds, by transferring or returning

                                          40
biomass and/or nutrients produced by bioprocessing in one or more of said
containers or ponds to one or more of said containers or ponds.
[0233]       (30) The method of (29), including the step of returning biomass
and/or nutrients produced as a result of bioprocessing in the floating
container to the floating container, to facilitate bioprocessing in the floating
container.
[0234]       (31) The method of (29)-(30), including the step of transferring
biomass and/or nutrients produced as a result of bioprocessing in the floating
container to the pond, to facilitate bioprocessing in the pond.
[0235]       (32) The method of (29)-(31), including the step of transferring
biomass and/or nutrients produced as a result of bioprocessing in the pond
to the floating container, to facilitate bioprocessing in the floating container.
[0236]       (33) The method of (1)-(32), including the step of supplementing
biofeed contained within the floating container or the pond with a nutrient to
assist with bioprocessing.
[0237]       (34) The method of (33), wherein the nutrient is carbon dioxide.
[0238]       (35) A bioprocessing apparatus, comprising:
        a bioprocessing container capable of containing a first bioprocessing
organism;
        an inlet mechanism by which a liquid biofeed is transferrable to the
bioprocessing container; and
        an outlet mechanism by which the liquid biofeed and/or biomass is
removable from the bioprocessing container after bioprocessing,
        wherein the bioprocessing container is adapted for flotation on a pond
capable of containing an additional bioprocessing organism, while containing
and using the liquid biofeed for bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing
organism;
        and the inlet mechanism and/or the outlet mechanism is adapted to
transfer liquid biofeed between the bioprocessing container and the pond
whereby an additional bioprocessing organism contained within the pond can
consume a substance within the               liquid biofeed  before and/or after
bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing organism.

                                        41
[0239]       (36) The apparatus of (35) wherein the liquid biofeed transferrable
to the bioprocessing container is waste water.
[0240]       (37) The apparatus of (35) or (36), wherein the liquid of the pond
on which the bioprocessing container is adapted to float is waste water.
[0241]       (38) The apparatus of (35)-(37), wherein the liquid biofeed
transferrable to the bioprocessing container by the inlet mechanism is the
liquid of the pond on which the bioprocessing container is floatable.
[0242]       (39) The apparatus of (35)-(38), wherein the inlet mechanism is a
powered inlet mechanism.
[0243]       (40) The apparatus of (35)-(39), wherein the outlet mechanism is
capable of functioning using gravity flow.
[0244]       (41) The apparatus of (35)-(40), further comprising a mixing
mechanism located within the bioprocessing container, for actively mixing the
liquid biofeed contained therein.
[0245]       (42) The   apparatus of (35)-(41),       wherein    a  body of the
bioprocessing container within which the first bioprocessing organism and
the liquid biofeed may be contained comprises air or gas -filled barriers or a
low density foam to facilitate floating of the container on a liquid.
[0246]       (43) The apparatus (42), wherein the barriers are formed from or
comprise a polymer or a rubber.
[0247]       (44) The apparatus of (35)-(43) wherein the bioprocessing
container is an open container and a body of the container is sealed to
prevent or constrain ingress of liquid when the container is floated on a
liquid.
[0248]       (45) The apparatus of (44), wherein the open container comprises
an open top or roof.
[0249]       (46) The   apparatus of (35)-(45),       wherein    a  body of the
bioprocessing container comprises compartments separated by one or more
additional barriers, wherein the compartments are adapted to contain one or
more additional bioprocessing organisms for use in bioprocessing.
[0250]       (47) The apparatus of (46), wherein the bioprocessing container
comprises one or more mechanisms facilitating transferral of liquid biofeed

                                       42
between the compartments.
[0251]      (48) The apparatus of (35)-(47), wherein the one or more barriers
of the body of the        bioprocessing container are adapted        to control
transmission of a wavelength of light into the container and/or into a pond on
which the container is floated.
[0252]      (49) The apparatus of (48), wherein the wavelength of light
includes the visible spectrum.
[0253]      (50) The apparatus of (48)-(49), wherein the wavelength of light
includes near infrared.
[0254]      (51) The apparatus of (48)-(50), wherein the one or more of the
barriers of the body of the bioprocessing container affect transmission of light
into a pond upon which the bioprocessing container is floated.
[0255]      (52) The apparatus of (48)-(51), wherein one or more of the
barriers of the body of the bioprocessing container affect transmission of light
into one or more compartments of the bioprocessing container.
[0256]      (53) A bioprocessing system        comprising the    bioprocessing
apparatus of (35)-(52) comprising a first bioprocessing organism contained
within the bioprocessing container; and
        a pond on which the bioprocessing container of the apparatus floats
containing    an  additional   bioprocessing   organism,    wherein   the  inlet
mechanism and/or the outlet mechanism transfers liquid biofeed between the
bioprocessing container and the pond, whereby the liquid biofeed is
bioprocessed by the first bioprocessing organism and the additional
bioprocessing organism.
[0257]      (54) The system of (53), further comprising an organism recycling
chamber in operable connection with the bioprocessing container of the
apparatus and/or the pond, for recycling the first bioprocessing organism
contained within the bioprocessing container of the apparatus and/or the
additional bioprocessing organism contained within the pond, and returning
biomass and/or nutrients to the bioprocessing container and/or the pond.
[0258]      (55) The system of (53)-(54), further comprising a screening
mechanism operatively connected to the bioprocessing container and/or the

                                         43
pond, for screening a liquid medium prior to delivery to the bioprocessing
container and/or the pond for use as a liquid biofeed.
[0259]      (56) The system of (53)-(55), further comprises one or more
further processing      containers and/or     processing   ponds or chambers
operatively connected to the bioprocessing container and/or the pond.
[0260]      (57) The system of (56), wherein the further processing containers
and/or further ponds or chambers are for bioprocessing and comprise one or
more further bioprocessing organisms.
[0261]      (58) The system of (57), wherein the further processing containers
are or include a further floating container.
[0262]      (59) The system of (53)-(58), further comprising one or more
mechanisms for supplementing liquid contained within the bioprocessing
container, the pond, and/or one or more further processing containers or
further ponds of the system, with a nutrient to assist with bioprocessing.
[0263]      (60) The system of (59) comprising a mechanism for adding
carbon dioxide to the liquid biofeed contained within the bioprocessing
container.
[0264]      (61) The apparatus of (35)-(52), or the system of (53)-(60), for use
according to the method of (1)-(34).
[0265]      The above descriptions, examples, and statements of various
embodiments of the present invention are provided for purposes of
description to one of ordinary skill in the related art. They are not intended to
be exhaustive or to limit the invention to a single disclosed embodiment. As
mentioned above, numerous alternatives and variations to the present
invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art of the above teaching.
Accordingly, while some alternative embodiments have been discussed
specifically, other embodiments will         be apparent or relatively easily
developed by those of ordinary skill in the art. The invention is intended to
embrace all alternatives, modifications, and variations of the present
invention that have been discussed herein, and other embodiments that fall
within the spirit and scope of the above described invention.
[0266]      In particular, although detailed description and examples have

                                     44
focussed on particular systems of the invention, in view of the disclosure
provided herein, the skilled person will readily be able to modify systems to
undertake methods as described herein across their full scope.

                                    45
                                 TABLES
Table 1. Operating parameters of components of the prototype system
described in Example 1.
                                       Operating hours
          Operating Unit  Speed (%)     ON         OFF     Output
         Pond feed
         pump                 55        5:00      18:00      ON
         FBR Feed pump        55        5:00      18:00      ON
         Recycle pump        100        5:00      18:00      ON
         Paddle               66        5:00      19:00      ON
         Waste pump           60       19:00     20:00       ON

                                        46
CLAIMS:
1.      A method of bioprocessing using a liquid biofeed, including the steps
of:
        floating a container comprising a first bioprocessing organism on a
pond comprising an additional bioprocessing organism;
        placing a liquid biofeed within the container, whereby the first
bioprocessing organism consumes a substance within the liquid biofeed; and
        transferring the liquid biofeed between the container and the pond
before and/or after bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing organism,
whereby the additional bioprocessing organism consumes a substance
within the liquid biofeed,
        to thereby bioprocess using the liquid biofeed.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the liquid biofeed is wastewater.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first bioprocessing organism is a
photoactive organism.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the first bioprocessing organism is a
microalgae selected from the group consisting of: Chlorella; Spirulina;
Nannochloropsis;       Nitzschia;   Dunaliella;  Nannochloris;   Porphyridium;
Schizochytrium;       Tetraselmis;     Euglena;    Phacus;   Chlamydomonas;
Amkistrodesmus;           Micractinium;       Scenedesmus;       Selenastrum;
Dictyosphaerium; and Volvox.
5.       The method of claim         1, wherein the additional bioprocessing
organism is selected from the group consisting of an algae; a cyanobacteria;
and a bacteria, wherein the additional bioprocessing organism is different
than the first bioprocessing organism.
6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the floating container comprises one

                                       47
or   more   additional  bioprocessing    organisms, wherein     the  additional
bioprocessing organism is different than the first bioprocessing organism.
7.     The method of claim 1, including the step of actively mixing the
contents of the floating container, to facilitate bioprocessing in the floating
container.
8.     The method of claim 1, including the step of controlling growth of a
photoactive organism by use of the floating container wherein the floating
container comprises one or more barriers which affect transmission of light.
9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the growth of the organism is
controlled within the pond, and wherein the one or more barriers include a
floor of the floating container positioned adjacent the surface of the pond,
and the one or more barriers affect transmission of light into the pond, to
thereby control the growth of an organism in the pond.
10.    The method of claim 1, including the step of recycling biomass and/or
nutrients produced in: the floating container; the pond; or one or more further
containers or further ponds, by transferring or returning biomass and/or
nutrients produced by bioprocessing in one or more of said containers or
ponds to one or more of said containers or ponds.
11.    The method of claim 1, including the step of supplementing biofeed
contained within the floating container or the pond with a nutrient to assist
with bioprocessing.
12.    A bioprocessing apparatus, comprising:
       a bioprocessing container capable of containing a first bioprocessing
organism;
       an inlet mechanism by which a liquid biofeed is transferrable to the
bioprocessing container; and

                                      48
         an outlet mechanism by which the liquid biofeed and/or biomass is
removable from the bioprocessing container after bioprocessing,
        wherein the bioprocessing container is adapted for flotation on a pond
capable of containing an additional bioprocessing organism, while containing
and using the liquid biofeed for bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing
organism;
         and the inlet mechanism and/or the outlet mechanism is adapted to
transfer liquid biofeed between the bioprocessing container and the pond
whereby an additional bioprocessing organism contained within the pond can
consume a substance within the           liquid biofeed  before    and/or after
bioprocessing by the first bioprocessing organism.
13.      The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the liquid biofeed transferrable to
the bioprocessing container by the inlet mechanism is the liquid of the pond
on which the bioprocessing container is floatable.
14.       The apparatus of claim 12, wherein one or more barriers of the body
of the bioprocessing container are adapted to control transmission of a
wavelength of light into the container and/or into a pond on which the
container is floated.
15.      A bioprocessing system comprising the bioprocessing apparatus of
claim 12 comprising a first bioprocessing organism contained within the
bioprocessing container; and a pond on which the bioprocessing container of
the apparatus floats the pond containing an additional bioprocessing
organism, wherein the inlet mechanism and/or the outlet mechanism of the
bioprocessing apparatus transfers liquid biofeed between the bioprocessing
container and the pond, whereby the liquid biofeed is bioprocessed by the
first bioprocessing organism and the additional bioprocessing organism.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      5/22
Figure 8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                   10/22
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 13
              Figure 14

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       11/22
Figure 15

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       12/22
Figure 16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
