                                           ABSTRACT
Methods and systems for customized pet food are described. Generally, the systems and
methods comprises obtaining a pet profile information from a user, which includes at least
one of a species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a
feeding method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a
body condition, a dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a
weight of the pet. The methods and systems may also comprise obtaining a second pet
profile information from a user, related to a preference regarding an ingredient, a food form, a
flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture. The methods and systems also may include
correlating the first pet profile information and second pet profile information to a stored
nutritional information to determine a pre-made pet blend based.
                                                40

 SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ORDERING AND MANUFACTURING CUSTOM
                                            PET FOOD
                                              FIELD
[0001]           The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for ordering custom pet
food, and in particular, systems and methods for collecting specific pet information and
utilizing that information to create a custom food product.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0002]           The inventions disclosed relate generally to methods for ordering and
manufacturing pet foods, and more particularly, to an algorithm and process for
manufacturing a pet food customized to the health and nutrition requirements of an individual
pet.
[0003]           Due to economies of scale, retail pet food manufacturers typically
manufacture their pet foods in large quantities and a limited number of formulations. Most
manufacturers offer, for example, dog food in several flavors, and in a puppy formula, an
adult dog formula, and a mature or inactive dog formula. Some manufacturers offer breed
specific or size-specific formulas. Some manufacturers offer more specialized formulas for
dogs having specific food allergies or nutrient responsive diseases. Similarly, retail cat food
is typically offered in limited variety of formulas of different flavors or for different stages of
development. However, the range of pet food choices does not meet the highly variable
preferences and dietary requirements of individual pets. For example, an individual pet may
have specific dietary requirements because of an existing illness or disease, or because of a
genetic predisposition towards a disease. In addition to nutritional requirements, pet owners
and pets have preferences regarding the form, flavor, shape and texture of the food.
[0004]           Accordingly, it would be desirable to provide a method of manufacturing a pet
food for an individual pet that uses an algorithm that takes into account a variety of pet
                                                  1

variables. In addition, it would be desirable to provide the pet owner with specific pet feeding
and care information regarding their pet.
[0005]          Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way
be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
                                           SUMMARY
[0006]          In one aspect, the present invention provides a method for customizing a pet
food for a pet, the method comprises obtaining a first pet profile information from a user,
wherein the first pet profile information includes at least one of a species, an activity level, a
medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a
spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a dental
health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of the pet. The
method also comprises obtaining a second pet profile information from a user, wherein the
second pet profile information includes at least one of a preference regarding an ingredient, a
food form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture; correlating the first pet profile
information and second pet profile information to a stored nutritional information; and
determining a pre-made pet blend based upon the correlation of the first pet profile
information and the second pet profile information to the stored nutritional information.
[00071          In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for customizing pet
food includes obtaining, at a user interface, information pertaining to pet attributes and
preferences to form pet profile information, wherein the attributes include at least one of a
species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding
method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body
condition, a dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
the pet, and wherein the preferences include at least one of user or pet preferences regarding

an ingredient, a food form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture; correlating the
pet profile information with stored nutritional information to determine at least one wellness
variable; determining a pet food formula based upon the at least one wellness variable; and
manufacturing pet food according to the pet food formula.
[0008]          In another aspect, the present invention provides a system for customizing pet
food for a pet is also provided, which comprises a computer; a user interface coupled to the
computer and configured to prompt a user at the user interface to enter information regarding
a pet information of the pet. The computer is configured to receive the pet information from
the user. The pet information includes at least three of a species, an activity level, a medical
history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a spayed/neutered
status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a dental health, a coat
information, a digestive health information and a weight of the pet. The system also
comprises a processor coupled to the computer and configured to correlate the pet
information with one or more wellness variables to form a pet food formula recommendation.
The system also includes an ordering device configured to utilize the pet food formula
recommendation to facilitate fulfillment of a pet food order.
[0009]          According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
customizing a pet food for a pet, the method comprising:
        a) obtaining a first pet profile information from a user, wherein the first pet profile
information includes at least one of a species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a
gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack
schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a dental health, a coat information, a
digestive health information and a weight of the pet;

         b) obtaining a second pet profile information from a user, wherein the second pet
profile information includes at least one of a preference regarding an ingredient, a food form,
a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture;
         c) correlating the first pet profile information and second pet profile information to a
stored nutritional information; and
         d) determining a pet food blend based upon the correlation of the first pet profile
information and the second pet profile information to the stored nutritional information; and
         e) generating signals to control a factory for preparing the blend; and
         f) manufacturing pet food in accordance with control signals sent to a pet food
factory;
         wherein the step of correlating the first pet profile information and second pet profile
information to stored nutritional information further includes selecting at least one wellness
variable supported by the blend wherein the wellness variable is selected based on the first
pet profile information and the second pet profile information.
[0010]           According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
customizing a pet food for a pet, the method comprising:
         a) obtaining, at a user interface, information pertaining to pet attributes and
preferences to form pet profile information, wherein the attributes include at least one of a
species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding
method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body
condition, a dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
the pet, and wherein the preferences include at least one of user or pet preferences regarding
an ingredient, a food form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture;
         b) correlating the pet profile information with stored nutritional information to
determine at least one wellness variable;

        c) determining a pet food formula based upon the at least one wellness variable;
        d) generating signals to control a factory for preparing the blend; and
        e) manufacturing pet food according to the pet food formula in accordance with
control signals sent to a pet food factory.
[0011]          According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a system for
customizing pet food for a pet, the system comprising:
        a) a computer;
        b) a user interface, the user interface coupled to the computer and configured to
            prompt a user at the user interface to enter information regarding a pet information
            of the pet, the computer configured to receive the pet information from the user,
            wherein the pet information includes at least three of a species, an activity level, a
            medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a
            spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a
            dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
            the pet;
        c) a processor, the processor coupled to the computer and configured to correlate the
            pet information with one or more wellness variables to determine a customized pet
            food blend, wherein the wellness variable is selected based on the first pet profile
            information and the second pet profile information;
        d) an ordering device, the ordering device configured to utilize the customized pet
            food blend to facilitate fulfillment of a pet food order; and
        e) manufacturing pet food according to the customized pet food blend.
[0012]          In accordance with another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
for customizing a pet food for a pet, the method comprising:

        a)     obtaining a first pet profile information from a user, wherein the first pet
           profile information includes at least one of a species, an activity level, a medical
           history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a
           spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a
           dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
           the pet;
        b)     obtaining a second pet profile information from a user, wherein the second pet
           profile information includes at least one of a preference regarding an ingredient, a
           food form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture;
        c)     correlating the first pet profile information and second pet profile information
           to a stored nutritional information; and
        d)     determining a pre-made pet blend based upon the correlation of the first pet
           profile information and the second pet profile information to the stored nutritional
           information.
[0013]         In accordance with another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
for customizing a pet food for a pet, the method comprising:
        a)     obtaining, at a user interface, information pertaining to pet attributes and
           preferences to form pet profile information, wherein the attributes include at least
           one of a species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding
           status, a feeding method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a
           biological sample, a body condition, a dental health, a coat information, a
           digestive health information and a weight of the pet, and wherein the preferences
           include at least one of user or pet preferences regarding an ingredient, a food
           form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture;
                                                  r;

        b)     correlating the pet profile information with stored nutritional information to
           determine at least one wellness variable;
        c)     determining a pet food formula based upon the at least one wellness variable;
           and
        d)     manufacturing pet food according to the pet food formula.
[0014]         In accordance with another aspect of the invention, there is provided a system
for customizing pet food for a pet, the system comprising:
        a)     a computer;
        b)     a user interface, the user interface coupled to the computer and configured to
           prompt a user at the user interface to enter information regarding a pet information
           of the pet, the computer configured to receive the pet information from the user,
           wherein the pet information includes at least three of a species, an activity level, a
           medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a
           spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a
           dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
           the pet;
        c)     a processor, the processor coupled to the computer and configured to correlate
           the pet information with one or more wellness variables to form a pet food
           formula recommendation; and
        d)     an ordering device, the ordering device configured to utilize the pet food
           formula recommendation to facilitate fulfillment of a pet food order.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]         FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of an apparatus for manufacturing a
customized pet food.
                                                 '7

[00161          FIG. 2 is a flow chart illustrating a method for manufacturing a customized pet
food in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
[00171          FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating a method for manufacturing a customized pet
food in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
[00181          FIG. 4 is a flow chart illustrating a method for producing a customized pet
product in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0019]          FIG. 5 is a flow chart illustrating a method for determining a customized pet
product in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0020]          FIG. 6 illustrates a priority listing of wellness variables in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention.
[0021]          FIG. 7 illustrates a chart of kibble identifiers in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention.
[0022]          FIG. 8 illustrates a chart of questions and inputs in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention.
[00231          FIG. 9 illustrates a chart of prioritizations and kibble recommendations in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0024]          FIG. 10 illustrates a chart of prioritizations and kibble recommendations in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0025]          Exemplary embodiments of apparatus and methods for customizing pet
products are described below. The systems and methods facilitate the manufacture of a
customized product that is directed to the specific needs of an individual pet. As used
hereinafter, pet product includes pet foods as well as pet food components. Although the pet
products may include food components that are manufactured in bulk, i.e., pre-made, the pre
made components are combined with custom made products to produce an end product that is

customized to the particular needs of an individual pet. Thus, the phrase customized product
includes products that have no pre-made food components as well as products that include
pre-made food components and custom made additives. In addition, although the method is
often described in terms of a complete process, it should be understood that any portion of the
process can be used separately or in combination with any other portion of the process
described hereinafter.
[0026]          It should also be understood that, to the extent the present application is
directed to the methods as described below in more detail, such methods should not be
limited to a particular food manufacturing apparatus. It should be further understood that the
methods described herein can be implemented in a variety of ways, including the use of
software which runs on one or more computers that controls the manufacturing of the pet
food.
[00271          FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of an embodiment for a system for
manufacturing a customized pet food. The system includes an electronic user interface 102
and a computer 104 which is electronically coupled to user interface 102. The system also
includes a factory 106 coupled to computer 104.
[00281          More specifically, user interface 102 and/or factory 106 may be either remote
from, or local to computer 104, and includes a data entry system such as a desktop computer,
or an input device such as a keyboard, touch screen, mouse, or card reader, and an output
device such as a monitor. In another embodiment, user interface 102 is a voice-activated
telephone system. User interface 102 may be coupled to computer 104 through standard
computer cables, a phone line or a dedicated computer network cable, which transmits the
user input to computer 104 for processing, a wireless communications link, a cellular
communications link, and/or the like. For example, a user such as a consumer may connect to
computer 104 via a computer network such as the Internet, through, for example, a wireless
                                                 0

connection. Alternatively, the user may use a user interface local relative to computer 104,
both computer 104 and user interface 102 located, for example, in a retail grocery store. User
interface 102 can comprise Internet Explorer (such as, for example, IE 7.0), Mozilla FireFox,
Safari and/or the like, In addition, user interface 102 can use Macromedia Flash and/or other
functionalities.
[0029]           As used herein, the term "user" may be used to refer to any type of individual
consumer, customer, researcher and/or the like that receives and/or transmits information
from/to user interface 102. Users include, but are not limited to, pet owners, veterinarians,
manufacturers, organizations, wholesalers, vendors, members and/or the like.
[0030]           Computer 104 may be, for example, a typical, commercially available
personal computer with networking capability, including, but not limited to a personal
computer, mobile device, tablet, iPad, laptop, and/or the like. In addition and/or in another
embodiment, computer 104 may comprise more computers 104, servers 105, and/or storage
107 connected directly and/or through a network 109.
[0031]           Servers 105 can comprise one or more servers and any hardware and/or
software suitably configured to facilitate communications between the various system
components as discussed herein. Servers 105 can operate as a single entity in a single
geographic location or as separate computing components located together or in separate
geographic locations. Information received and/or processed at servers 105 may pass through
a firewall prior to being received and processed. As used herein, "transmit" may include
sending electronic data from one system component to another over a network connection.
Additionally, as used herein, "data" may include encompassing information such as
commands, queries, files, data for storage, and the like in digital or any other form. Servers
105 may provide a suitable web site or other Internet-based graphical user interface elements
accessible users. In one embodiment, servers 105 may use software such as Linux Kernel,
                                                 1(

Apache, MySQL and/or PHP. Servers 105 may comprise the Microsoft Internet Information
Server (IIS), Microsoft Transaction Server (MTS), and Microsoft SQL Server, or the like. In
addition servers 105 may be used in conjunction with the Microsoft operating system,
Microsoft NT web server software, a Microsoft SQL Server database system, and/or a
Microsoft Commerce Server. Additionally, components such as Access or Microsoft SQL
Server, ORACLE, SYBASE, InterBase, etc., may be used to provide an Active Data Object
(ADO) compliant database management system.
[0032]          Storage 107 comprises one or more devices and/or software systems for
storing data in analog or digital format. Storage 107 includes, but is not limited to, magnetic
tape, flash drives, RAM, hard drives, databases, optical storage devices, zip drives, and the
like. The databases used herein can comprise one or more local, remote or other databases
used for information storage and retrieval. The databases can be a graphical, hierarchical,
relational, and/or object-oriented database.
[0033]          Network 109 comprises any electronic communications means which
incorporates both hardware and software components of such. Network 109 can comprise
any suitable communication channels, such as, for example, a telephone network (such as a
public switched telephone network or Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)), an
extranet, an intranet, Internet, point-of-interaction device (personal digital assistant, cellular
phone, kiosk, etc.), online communications, off-line communications, wireless
communications, transponder communications, local area network (LAN), wide area network
(WAN), networked and/or linked devices and/or the like. Moreover, network 109 may also
implement TCP/IP communications protocols, IPX, Appletalk, IP-6, NetBIOS, OSI and/or
any number of existing and/or future protocols. If network 109 is in the nature of a public
network, such as the Internet, various encryption and security protocols may be used to
secure network 109, including, but not limited to SSL encryption and "Blowfish." Specific
                                                  11

information related to the protocols, standards, and application software utilized in
connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled in the art and, as such, need
not be detailed herein.
[0034]          Communication between computer 104, servers 105, user interface 102,
factory 106, storage 107 and/or network 109 may be facilitated using additional software
and/or hardware (not shown) software. For instance, any type of software and/or hardware to
facilitate communication and data storage within computer 104 and/or factory 106. For
example, software and/or hardware can comprise one and/or more of the following: a host
server and/or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data; a
memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data; an input digitizer coupled to the
processor for inputting digital data; an application program stored in the memory and
accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor; a display
device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital
data processed by the processor; and a plurality of databases. As those skilled in the art will
appreciate, software and/or hardware can include an operating system (e.g., MVS, Windows
NT, 95/98/2000/XP, OS2, UNIX, MVS, TPF, Linux, Solaris, MacOS, AIX, etc.) as well as
various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers.
[0035]          Computer 104 provides an electronic input to user interface 102, which input
prompts a user at user interface 102 to answer a series of questions to form an pet profile of
the pet. In one embodiment, for example, computer 104 is a computer network server such as
a web server which supports a web "page" written in Hyper-text Mark-up Language (HTML),
virtual reality mark-up language (VRML), hand-held device mark-up language (HDML),
standard generalized mark-up language (SGML), dynamic HTML, or the like or a web site
including multiple such "pages". The web page or web site is the electronic input to the user
interface 102, and the user can click on radio buttons on the web pages to answer questions
                                                11)

regarding the pet profile. In one embodiment, the user enters the answers using an input
device such as a mouse, touch screen or keyboard. In one embodiment, a user may provide a
text entry answer. In another embodiment, the user may select an answer from a drop-down
menu, slider bar or by clicking on a button. It should be recognized however that the user
input and methods disclosed herein are not limited to practice through electronic user
interfaces and electronic control systems. For example, the user input may be obtained by
administering a written or verbal questionnaire to a user or customer to form the pet profile.
 [00361         The electronic input from computer 104 to user interface 102 includes, but is
not limited to, questions regarding a pet's species, age, weight, gender, breed, activity level,
breeding status, eating style, digestive health, skin and coat health, dental health, muscle and
joint health, medical history, genetic information, current health status, and the like. In
addition, the electronic input can include, for example, the preferences of the pet, or the pet's
owner, regarding ingredients, food form, flavor, protein source, shape and texture. For
example, in one embodiment, the pet owner can indicate a preference towards a grain free pet
food blend. In another embodiment, the pet owner can indicate a preference towards a vegan
or vegetarian pet food blend. The user may also be prompted to provide the time of year
and/or date or computer 104 may provide the time of year and/or date according to an internal
clock. Together this information forms the pet profile information. In one embodiment, the
user is a consumer such as a pet owner. In an alternative method, the user is a pet care
provider such as a veterinarian or veterinary technician who administers a written
questionnaire to the pet owner, and then enters the data into user interface 102, or directly
into computer 104.
 [00371         In one embodiment, computer 104 receives and processes the pet profile
information contained and generates signals which are communicated to factory 106. In one
embodiment, computer 104, servers 105 and/or storage 107 can process the pet profile
                                                 12

information by combining it with stored nutritional information to generate a customized pet
food recommendation. The stored nutritional information may include, but is not limited to,
information that correlates certain nutrients with certain pet attributes, caloric information,
nutritional information, and the like. As used herein, a customized pet food recommendation
can include a pre-made blend, one or more additives, a newly devised pet food formula
and/or the like.
[00381           Generally, factory 106 is programmed to receive one or more input signals
from computer 104. The input signals from computer 104 represents the customized pet food
formula created according to the pet profile of the pet and stored nutritional information. In
an alternative embodiment, the input signal from computer 104 represents the customized pet
food formula created according to the pet profile of the pet in combination with a biological
sample analysis and/or nutritional data stored in a database. In one embodiment, the input
signals represent a set of manufacturing instructions to factory 106.
[0039]           As used herein, factory 106 is a remote and/or local computer, ordering
device, facility, network of computers, and/or the like for facilitating fulfillment of a pet food
order and/or for manufacturing pet food. For example, in one embodiment, factory 106 is
similar to the manufacturing apparatus described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,493,641, entitled
"Methods and Apparatus for Customizing Pet Food," and U.S. Pat. No. 6,576,280, entitled
"Systems for Customizing Pet Food," the contents of both which are incorporated herein in
their entireties. In another embodiment, factory 106 is an ordering device that facilitates the
fulfillment of user pet food orders. Communications to factory 106 are made through any of
the communications methods described herein.
[0040]           It should be understood that, to the extent the present application is directed to
the methods as described below in more detail, such methods should not be limited to a
particular food manufacturing apparatus. It should be further understood that the methods
                                                 ill

described herein can be implemented in a variety of ways, including the use of software
which runs on computer 104 and controls the real-time manufacturing of the pet food. In
addition, it should be understood that the user input can occur through any means, electronic
or otherwise and the processing can occur through any means, electronic or otherwise. For
example, the methods described below, may be practiced by administering a written or verbal
questionnaire to a user or customer to form the pet profile, using the pet profile to generate a
customized pet food formula, and/or manufacturing the customized pet food with manual
control of the operation of factory 106. In addition, the methods need not occur in any
particular order, and need not include all of the exemplary steps provided.
[0041]           For example, with reference to an exemplary embodiment of a method 200
illustrated in FIG. 2, a user such as a consumer connects to user interface 102 via a computer
network such as the Internet, from a home computer connected to a home phone line.
Computer 104 provides an electronic input to user interface 102, which input prompts a user
at user interface 102 to answer a series of questions to form the pet information of the pet.
The answers from the user are communicated electronically to computer 104 (step 202), and
computer 104 processes the information contained in the answers to create a pet profile (step
204).
[0042]           The pet profile is composed of answers to questions pertaining to, but not
limited to, a pet's name, species, age, weight, gender, breed, spayed/neutered, activity level,
breeding status, digestive health, medical history and genetic information, current health
status, body condition, feeding method, snack schedule and flavor preferences. In addition,
the pet profile includes indications regarding, for example, the preferences of the pet, or the
pet's owner, regarding form, protein source, flavor, shape and texture. Further, the pet profile
also includes information regarding the season, date or time of year. The information for the
season and the time of year may either be obtained through questions asked to the user, or
                                                11

through an internal clock on computer 104. In one embodiment, the pet profile also includes
genetic and or biological information about the pet. In one embodiment, the user is a
consumer such as a pet owner. In an alternative embodiment, the user is a pet care provider
such as a veterinarian or veterinary technician who administers a written questionnaire to the
pet owner, and then enters the data into user interface 102, or directly into computer 104.
[0043]          In addition to the pet profile created based on user input, the user may be also
requested to input information obtained from a biological sample of the pet. The computer
104 utilizes information obtained from the biological sample analysis to obtain additional
information regarding the pet. The information regarding the biological sample analysis can
be obtained by any means and is not limited to electronic means. In an exemplary
embodiment, the additional information regarding the biological sample analysis is pertinent
to determining the pet's individual ability to react to specific dietary nutrients or ingredients
and thereby change the health status of the pet (including, but not limited to stool quality,
immune status, oral/dental health, skeletal health, skin and coat condition). In one
embodiment, the analysis of the biological sample is obtained at the same time the pet profile
information is obtained. In an alternative embodiment, the analysis of the biological sample is
obtained after the pet has eaten the customized pet food. The analysis provides information
that enhances the pet profile information and is used to modify and refine the customized pet
food product by suggesting a different pre-manufactured kibble, adding specific additive
ingredients, removing specific additive ingredients, and/or changing the amount of any
included additive ingredient from the pet product formulation to enable the new formulation
to better meet the needs of the pet. In one embodiment, the additional nutritional and
biological analyses information is conveyed to the pet's veterinarian to recommend potential
therapeutic components to the diet or a therapeutic treatment if appropriate. In an alternative
embodiment, the veterinarian conveys the nutritional and biological analyses information to a
                                                 1;

pet food manufacturer. In the exemplary embodiment, the biological sample includes, but is
not limited to, at least one of stool, urine, hair, blood, saliva, tissue, and DNA.
[0044]          The biological sample analysis may help determine a pet's individual reaction
to a diet and the pet's ability to change its health status, including, but not limited to stool
quality, immune status, oral/dental health, skeletal health, skin and coat health. The pet's
individual reaction and ability to change may be different than a reaction of another pet in the
same category to the same diet. For example, in creating pet foods for the "average" dog,
digestion tests are typically conducted on a statistically large group of animals and their
reactions averaged. The predictions are made on how these diets may fare for other similar
dogs. Individual variations are thus excluded during creating foods for the "average" pet.
[0045]          Computer 104 correlates the pet profile information to nutritional information
stored in one or more databases (step 206). The stored nutritional information, may include,
for example, nutritional and other health benefits relating to vitamins, minerals, extracts
and/or other nutrients. Based upon the correlation by computer 104, a pre-manufactured pet
kibble or blend is then selected (step 208). In one embodiment, the custom pet food product
includes a pre-manufactured kibble and a custom pet food additive. Computer 204 suggests a
pre-manufactured kibble or blend from a number of possible pre-manufactured kibbles or
blends and creates a pet food additive based on the pet food product formulation specific to
the pet and in accordance with the pet profile of the pet. In an alternative embodiment, the pet
food product includes a pre-manufactured kibble or blend and a pre-manufactured additive,
such as a topping or sauce. The computer suggests a particular pre-manufactured kibble or
blend from a number of possible pre-manufactured kibbles or blends and suggests a particular
pre-manufactured topping from a number of possible pre-manufactured toppings. As used
herein, the terms kibbles, blends, and clusters refer to formulations of pet foods. These
formulations may comprise different ingredients and be formed into different shapes and/or
                                                   17

sizes. As used herein, the terms "topping", sauce, gravy, thickener, powder, and coating refer
to an additive or additives to a pet food product that can be added by either the manufacturer
or end user. Such toppings may include, but are not limited to, fruits or fruit extracts,
vegetables or vegetable abstracts, grains, proteins, fiber and/or the like. The toppings may be
in solid and/or liquid form.
[0046]          Alternatively, based upon the correlation by computer 104, computer 104
sends information to factory 106, which in turn can manufacture a specific blend of pet food
and/or carry out an order for a specific blend of pet food. For example, computer 104 can
combine the stored nutritional information with the pet profile to create a customized pet food
formula specific to the individual pet which is also stored in the database. Computer 104 can
then generate signals for factory 106 to manufacture food according to the customized pet
food formula.
[00471          In one embodiment, the user can then view nutritional information related to
the selected blend (step 210). For example, computer 104 can be programmed to assemble
the pet profile and nutritional data into printed material. In an exemplary embodiment, the
printed material includes customized pet feeding and care information for the individual pet,
along with an ingredient statement, guaranteed analysis of the pet food, and a product label.
In alternative embodiments, the printed material may also include recommendations
regarding the use of treats and supplements, exercise of the pet, and veterinary care.
[0048]          In one embodiment, the user may change the food blend and/or make
additions to the food blend based upon the provided nutritional information. Based upon the
user input (or lack thereof), a final pet food product is selected. This final pet food product
can comprise a pre-made blend, a modified pre-made blend, a newly manufactured blend
and/or nutritional "toppings."

[00491           In one embodiment, the customized pet product includes a first basal portion
common to many types of finished food products and also includes a second supplemental
portion that incorporates additional ingredients. The additional ingredients, in one
embodiment, are in the form of a sauce, a coating, a gravy, a solution, a topping, and a
powder. In alternative embodiments, the additional ingredients can take other forms. The
two-portion food provides a large variety of customized foods while keeping the inventory of
basal ingredients and supplemental ingredients to a minimum. Only a minimal number of
ingredients are utilized since a minimum number of nutrient bases (for the major categories
of pet foods) can be used in conjunction with micro ingredients such as vitamins, minerals,
fats, antioxidants, flavors, soluble fibers, and other functional ingredients to provide a large
variety of complete, customized pet foods that address a pet's specific nutritional and other
needs.
[0050]           In an exemplary embodiment, the basal food portion is pre-made into kibbles
and an additive is custom blended according to each pet's specific pet profile, biological
sample analysis, and/or the correlation made by computer 104. A set of pet nutrient profiles,
with the exception of fat, soluble fiber, and vitamin E, is created to satisfy the macronutrient
needs of different dogs. For example, a set of 10 profiles is utilized to create 10 formulas,
e.g., Fl through F1O. These formulas are utilized to manufacture, according to known
extrusion methods, pre-made kibbles which are packaged into packages, such as bags.
[0051]           Next, an additive formulation, such as a sauce, is formulated in a number of
varieties, e.g., SI through S25, which provide the required amounts of fat, fiber, and vitamin
E. The additive formulations are created to make each of the bases F1 through F10 complete
and balanced when mixed with an appropriate additive in an appropriate amount. Additives
SI through S25 are made in any of the consumer preferred flavors and with inclusions of
                                                 10

other desired micronutrients. Thus, the total number of additives increases by a factor such as
four.
[0052]          For example, additive S3 (at 12.5% of total) is combined with formula F5 (at
87.5% of total) to create a complete and balanced food that provides all the nutrient needs of
a specific pet. Additive S3 is, for example, a sauce having a salmon flavor and other desired
micronutrients, such as extra vitamin E, for a stressed pet. Multiple additives can be
formulated to be compatible with multiple pre-made bases.
[0053]          In one embodiment, the pre-made bases, F1 through F10, are packaged in bags
and brought to a store. Components, such as flavors, micro-nutrients, fats, soluble fiber, and
preservatives, to make the additives SI through S25 are also brought to the same store in
containers, such as dispensing bottles. As a customer's requirements are determined, a
specific base, such as F3, is selected and an additive formulation, say F5, in a customer
chosen flavor, say tuna flavor, is created on site. Using the dispensing bottles, the additive is
mixed in a bottle, sealed, and given to the consumer with proper mixing and feeding
instructions. The user combines the kibbles with the additive to provide a customized pet
food to the pet. In one embodiment, the additive is one of a sauce, a powder, a coating, a
thickener, a topping and a gravy. In alternative embodiments, the additive is a combination of
two or more of the above listed additives.
[0054]          The additives are formulated such that when the additives are combined with
the kibbles, a complete, balanced and customized nutritious product is supplied. In one
embodiment, the additives are manufactured by an operator in accordance with information
obtained from the pet's pet profile.
[0055]          The ratio of additives to kibbles is a factor in supplying a complete and
nutritious food to pets. The macronutrients in a pet food (such as the protein, carbohydrates,
fat and moisture) are provided to a large extent by the base kibbles. However, the caloric and
                                                 M)

fat content of the combined food can be adjusted by manipulating the fat content of the
additives. Thus, for an additive added at 12.5% of the total pet food (base plus additive), the
fat content of the additive is varied between 15% and 70%. This variation allows addition of
between 2% and 11I% fat, and selecting the appropriate level of fat in the additive allows fat
levels of the combined pet food to vary between about 4% and 20% which is a typical range
for pet foods.
[0056]           Pets need the vitamins and minerals that make up a complete and balanced
diet. These vitamins and minerals are usually sourced as premixes from vitamin suppliers and
are added at typically less than 1% of the formulation. In one embodiment, these vitamins
and minerals are added to the kibbles. In an alternative embodiment, for vitamins and
minerals that need to be protected from high thermal processing such as extrusions, the
vitamins and minerals are added to the additives instead. Higher dosages of vitamins such as
Vitamin E and Vitamin C are suggested for individual dogs that are senior, active, or
undergoing immune deficiency. Higher than basic levels of these vitamins can be delivered
through addition of vitamins in the additives, typically at low levels such as from 0 to 0.5%.
[00571           In addition, if a pet needs additional levels of soluble or insoluble fiber, the
fiber is delivered through the additives in amounts typically ranging between 0.l1% and 1.0%
of the total formulation, or between 0.5% and 20% of the sauce depending upon the sauce to
the base kibble ratio.
[0058]           Palatable coatings such as animal digests, typically used in pet food
formulations, can be used to make the sauce highly palatable to the pets. These coating levels
can be varied (0.5% to 10%) to compensate for the varying palatability effect of other
ingredients such as fat levels. Thus, even low-calorie pet foods can be made as palatable as
high-calorie foods by adding an extra amount of palatable coatings to the kibbles in a low
calorie diet.

[0059]           Other specialized micronutrients, as they are discovered for their effect in pet
nutrition can also be delivered through the additives as a delivery mechanism. For example,
fish oil as a source of omega three fatty acids for healthy skin and coat, is included in the
additives in the required quantities (such as between 0 and 5%). Alternatively, sodium acid
pyrophosphate for dental and skeletal health is included in the additives in the required
quantities (such as between 0 and 5%).
[00601           In addition, and in one embodiment, the additives are visually appealing and
functionally stable. For example, pH lowering agents (such as phosphoric acid or sodium
bisulfate and/or Sorbic acid) are added at between 1.0% and 5.0% to bring the pH to between
2.0 and 3.0 to provide a resistance to bacterial, fungal or other microbial spoilage to the
additives. Additive stabilizers, for example for a sauce, such as gums or fibers are, in one
embodiment, added at between 0.5% and 2.0% to make the additive components well
integrated. Other flavors and colors are added at 0 to 3.0% to provide the desired flavor and
color of the additive to the customer. For a sauce additive, it has been determined that adding
Psyllium fiber at between 0 and 1.0% of the sauce amount binds water and prevents
separation of aqueous and fat phases in the sauce.
[00611           In an alternative embodiment, the kibbles are not pre-manufactured but instead
the basal food portion is pre-mixed and transported to specific locations, such as retail
locations. Ingredients to make the supplemental portion are kept at each retail location.
Manufacturing apparatus at each specific location are utilized to blend the appropriate
supplemental ingredients with the pre-made basal portion and form a manufactured food.
Thus the manufacturing process is simplified and can be diffused to many locations instead of
one or a few central locations.
[0062]           FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating a method 350 for manufacturing a custom
pet food. In one embodiment, method 350 generally includes obtaining user input through

electronic user interface 102 (step 302), processing the input with stored data on computer
104 (step 304), and generating signals to control the operation of a factory 106 (step 306).
[0063]           To manufacture a food in accordance with the above method, the created pet
food formulation is utilized by computer 104 to direct factory 106 regarding the proper
ingredients to add and the proper amounts of each added ingredient and/or to indicate to
factory 106 which pre-made pet food blend should be selected for the user.
[0064]           In one embodiment, computer 104 is used to create and print a label that
identifies the individual pet for which the food was manufactured, and lists the product
formula, a list of nutritional benefits or claims, an ingredient list, a date of manufacture, and
the like. In an alternative embodiment, computer 104 is further coupled to a digital camera
which captures an electronic image of the individual pet, and transmits the image to computer
104 to generate a photo label of the pet for the food package, which is printed by printer on a
label as described above. A printer may also be used to produce printed material such as a
pamphlet or flyer having pet care information and instructions including, for example, a
description of the customized pet food formula, feeding recommendations including specific
recommendations regarding amount and feeding methods, recommendations for treats and
supplements, and recommendations on veterinary care.
[0065]           FIG. 4 illustrates a method 400 of obtaining a customized pet food product. In
an exemplary embodiment, a pet owner (consumer) that is a purchaser of a customized pet
food product supplies pet profile and/or a biological sample (i.e., stool sample) using user
input 102 and/or any other means. In one embodiment, the consumer supplies a completed
questionnaire and/or biological via the Internet, in the mail or in person. This information is
then received by computer 104 (step 402).
[0066]           In one embodiment, analytical data is obtained from the biological sample by
a veterinarian/technician located on site. In an alternative embodiment, the sample is sent to a

central lab for analysis. The analysis is performed on the biological sample with respect to
examining several health and digestive indicators. Data from the biological sample analysis is
combined with the pet profile information and entered into a system including a pet food
product customization model. Alternatively, the pet profile information is used without any
biological sample.
[00671          Computer 104 processes the pet profile information and/or biological sample
(step 404) utilizing at least one algorithm and generates a pet profile (step 406). Each profile
may have a unique identifying code and contains the specific customized food product and
feeding instructions recommended for the specific pet. The recommended food product
includes a pre-manufactured kibble and a customized additive. In one embodiment, the pre
manufactured kibble is selected from a variety of pre-manufactured kibbles and the additive
is a liquid additive that is made on site, typically in the presence of the consumer.
[0068]          For example, with reference to an exemplary embodiment illustrated in FIG. 7,
there are four base pre-made kibble types: A, B, BGF (type B, grain free), and C. Each base
kibble can comprise a different source of protein, for example, chicken, lamb, salmon or the
like. Thus, in the illustrated embodiment, base kibble type A can come in chicken (type Al),
lamb (type A2), or salmon (type A3). As such, there are twelve different pre-made kibbles
that can be selected.
[0069]          Computer 104 then provides information to user interface 102 regarding the
particular customized pet food, pre-made kibble best suited for the pet and/or customized
additive formula that has been created based upon the individual pet's profile (step 408). For
example, in one embodiment, computer 104 provides the user with information regarding a
pre-made kibble A2 that is formulated to meet the nutritional needs of the pet based on the
information in the pet profile and stored nutritional information. Alternatively, the system
indicates a recommendation for the pet to see a veterinarian prior to buying a customized
                                                 ,MI

food, if certain "warning" signs are present in the profile. This recommendation provides the
consumer with added health information about the pet between regular vet visits.
[00701          Computer 104 provides user with ordering information (step 410) on how to
obtain a bag of the recommended pet food product. By providing the user with ordering
information, computer 104 can communicate information through user interface 102
regarding pet food size, quantity, cost and/or the like. In one embodiment, computer 104
provides an option through user interface 102 to set up an automatic standing order. For
example, the user can select to receive a 2-pound bag of pet food monthly. In another
embodiment, computer 104 provides the user with an option to automatically update the
user's pet food order based upon the age of the pet. For example, the user may receive a 2
pound bag of a certain formulation of pet food monthly for 6 months, and then every six
months, the formulation will automatically change in response to the aging of the pet.
[00711          In another embodiment, computer 104 sends a message to a user, through user
interface 102, telephonic means, electronic means, or the like, which provides the user with
additional questions in order to update a previously stored pet profile. For example, after the
user answers an initial questionnaire, computer 104 can send an email to the user (for
example, every month, semi-annually, annually, or the like), requesting additional
information from the user regarding the pet's health. In one embodiment, the user selects to
receive update emails annually. While the example references use of an email, any other
communication means may be used. In addition, the email may contain links to user
interface 102 and/or the like.
[0072]           In one embodiment, computer 104 communicates with factory 106 to make
and/or supply the custom pet food and/or pre-made food and/or food additive, utilizing the
recommended formulation (step 412). In addition, customized feeding instructions and
package labels are printed (step 414). The label may include personalized pet information,
                                                1)1

nutritional information and/or claims, feeding information, information about the
recommended frequency and conditions of future biological sample analyses, and/or
information about the recommended frequency of profile updates for their pet. The computer
104 then facilitates shipping the customized pet food product to the consumer (step 416).
[0073]          For a repeat purchase, a consumer returns to user interface 102 and provides
their pet's unique code to access their pet's profile. They may update/change the profile
information and/or provide a new biological sample, either of which could result in a
difference in the recommended food. Alternatively, the consumer leaves the profile as it is
and replenishes their pet's current food supply.
[0074]          Alternatively, a customized additive is ordered by at least one of mail,
catalogue, and the Internet, and is shipped directly to the consumer's home. Then, only the
pre-made bases are purchased at a retail outlet. Once the consumer receives a base formula
recommendation, the consumer purchases the base wherever convenient, and the additive is
shipped directly to the consumer in finished or almost finished form. In one embodiment, the
consumer adds one of water and oil to the shipped sauce. In alternative embodiments, the
sauce is produced either on site or off site and the production is either manual or automated.
[00751          In one exemplary embodiment of a determination method 500 illustrated in
FIG. 5, computer 104, servers 105 and/or storage 107 are configured to determine a pet food
product based upon the pet profile information, biological sample and/or stored nutritional,
health and other information. Computer 104 receives pet profile information (step 502). For
example, with reference to an exemplary embodiment illustrated in FIG. 8, the pet profile
information can include, but is not limited to, answers to questions about the pet's gender,
age, breed, activity level, weight, eating habits, joint health, coat health, skin health, digestive
health and the like. The pet profile information can also include answers to questions about
the pet owner's food preferences, for example, whether the owner prefers a grain-free diet for
                                                 1)r

the pet, a soy-free diet for the pet, a corn-free diet for the pet, the source of primary protein
for the pet (i.e., chicken, lamb, beef, or fish), and the like.
[00761            Computer 104 then accesses stored nutritional information (step 504). In one
embodiment, and with further reference to FIG. 8, computer 104 assigns a weight to one or
more answers to the questions about the pet or pet owner preferences. For example, with
respect to a question about the pet's coat, computer 104 may weight a response of "dull"
higher than a response of "glossy."
[00771            Computer 104 then determines one or more wellness variables (step 506),
based on the pet profile information and stored nutritional information. In one embodiment,
computer 104 uses the weight of the responses to help determine one or more wellness
variables. As used herein, "wellness variables" refers to one or more nutritional claims that
the formulas in each pet food formulation support. For example, the nutritional claims may
include, but are not limited to DHA from omega-rich fish oil to help nourish brain and vision
development; calcium, phosphorus and other minerals to help build strong teeth and bones;
EPA, an omega-3 fatty acid, and glucosamine to support joint health and mobility; hard
kibble texture to help reduce plaque build-up on teeth; optimal protein and fat levels to help
the pet maintain healthy weight and ideal body condition; high-quality sources of
carbohydrates for sustained energy; omega-6 fatty acids and zinc to help nourish skin and
promote a healthy coat; easily digestible formula that is gentle on the digestive system;
alternative sources of carbohydrates - formulated without grain or soy and/or the like.
[0078]            A particular fed food formulation may support numerous nutritional claims, or
it may be directed to only one nutritional claim. For formulations that support numerous
nutritional claims, the nutritional claims may be prioritized based upon a variety of factors,
including but not limited to the breed information, the pet age information, the pet weight
information, the pet activity level, the pet's digestive health, the pet's eating habits, the pet's
                                                  1)7

joint health, the pet's coat or skin information, the pet owner's pet food preferences, and the
like. For example, in one embodiment, the wellness variables for a particular pet food
formulation are prioritized based on the pet's age, the pet's breed, and the pet's coat health.
In another embodiment, the wellness variables for a particular pet food formulation are
prioritized based on the pet's weight, the pet's age and the pet's digestive health. While
these two embodiments exemplify two types of prioritization, the wellness variables can be
prioritized based on any pet profile information, pet owner preference information, nutritional
information and/or the like.
 [00791          For example, one embodiment of wellness variable prioritization 600 is
illustrated in FIG. 6. In this embodiment, pet food cluster type A is formulated such that the
most prioritized nutritional benefit it provides is optimal protein and fat levels to help pets
maintain healthy weight and ideal body condition, while an easily digestible formulation is a
lesser-prioritized benefit. In contrast, pet food cluster type B is formulated such that one of
the most prioritized nutritional benefits it provides is an easily digestible formulation, while
optimal protein and fat levels are a lesser-prioritized benefit. As such, for pets that need
optimal protein and fat to fulfill their health needs, computer 104 would select pet food
cluster type A. In another embodiment, each pet food cluster can be formulated using a
different protein source. For example, pet food cluster type A can comprise chicken, lamb or
salmon.
 [0080]          In one embodiment, FIG. 9 and FIG. 10 illustrate kibble recommendations
based upon the answers to the pet profile information received by computer 104. The kibble
recommendations are based upon the pet profile information, pet or user preferences, stored
nutritional information related to the kibble formulation, one or more wellness variables, one
or more wellness variable prioritizations, and/or the like.

[00811          For example, in one embodiment, and with further reference to the
embodiments illustrated in FIG. 5 and FIG. 9, pet profile information indicates that the pet is
a puppy golden retriever and that the pet owner prefers a grain-free pet formula. Computer
104 uses this pet profile information and cross-references it with stored nutritional
information and requirements related to golden retriever breeds and puppies, as well as stored
nutritional information related to its grain-free formulations. Based upon this stored
nutritional information, computer 104 then determines that the golden retriever would benefit
from a custom formulation that is a grain-free formulation that has high-quality sources of
carbohydrates for sustained energy, omega-6 fatty acids and zinc to help nourish skin and
promote a healthy coat; and DHA from omega-rich fish oil to help nourish brain and vision
development. Computer 104 determines that the recommended formulation is a cluster BGF
type formulation, comprising lamb (BGF2) and provides this recommendation to the pet
owner (step 508). The pet owner can select this recommendation, or modify the cluster type,
protein type (i.e., change from lamb to salmon), and/or add any number of toppings (for
example, a calcium-rich topping for the puppy's bone health). Computer 104 receives the
owner's selection, modification and/or addition (step 510).
[0082]          Computer 104 then generates signals to factory 106 according to the
customized pet food formula in order to complete the pet food order (step 512). By
generating signals to factory 106, computer 104 can signal to factory 106 to begin
manufacturing the pet food formula, computer 104 can signal to factory 106 to choose a pre
made formulation (for example, kibble BGF2), computer 104 can signal to factory 106 to
choose a pre-made formulation and add a pre-made topping, computer 104 can signal to
factory 106 to choose a pre-made formulation and manufacture a topping and/or the like.
[0083]          In another exemplary embodiment, and with reference to FIG. 10, pet profile
information indicates that the pet is an adult beagle, that the pet owner does not prefer a
                                                 1)0

grain-free pet formula, and that the pet has somewhat difficult digestion. Computer 104 uses
this pet profile information and cross-references it with stored nutritional information and
requirements related to the beagle breed, adult dogs, and digestion, as well as stored
nutritional information related to its kibble formulations. Based on the above information,
Computer 104 determines that the recommended formulation is a cluster B type formulation,
comprising lamb (type B2) is selected that is appropriate for an adult, medium sized dog that
has somewhat difficult digestion. In addition, in one embodiment, based on the kibble
selected, a pre-manufactured topping is selected based upon one or more preferred health
outcomes, for example, a topping rich in omega-6 fatty acids and zinc may be selected to help
nourish skin and promote a healthy coat.
[0084]           In one embodiment, an appropriate daily feeding amount is calculated based
on the nutrient profile of the kibble and the "topping" selected, the weight of the dog, body
condition, season of the year, snacking habit and/or the like. In one embodiment, based on
stool analyses of a biological sample, a custom additive in a gravy form, including vegetable
oil, Vitamin E, soluble fiber to help the high stool texture and discomfort, mixture of soluble
and insoluble fiber and a palatant digest coating is created by mixing the ingredients for the
pet. Both the pre-manufactured kibble and the customized additive are given to the owner
with feeding instructions and a copy of the above report. In one embodiment, a copy of the
pet profile and sample stool test is sent to a veterinarian.
[0085]           In addition, computer 104 can be programmed to assemble the user input and
nutritional data into printed material. In an exemplary embodiment, the printed material
includes customized pet feeding and care information for the individual pet, along with an
ingredient statement, guaranteed analysis of the pet food, and/or a product label. In
alternative embodiments, the printed material may also include recommendations regarding
the use of treats and supplements, exercise of the pet, veterinary care, and/or the like.
                                                 'A

Additionally, computer 104 can be programmed to manage ingredient and supplies
inventories, to generate customer notices or reminders for food re-orders, pet birthday cards,
veterinary visits, special promotions and/or the like.
[0086]           In one embodiment, computer 104 determines the feeding instructions for each
formula are based on the pet's weight, age and stored classification information regarding the
ideal weight for that type of pet breed. For example, if the pet is described as an adult male
Siamese cat that weighs 10 pounds, computer 104 determines, based on stored information,
that the cat is underweight. As such, computer 104 calculates that the following exemplary
recommended caloric count is advised per feeding:
[00871           165.75 x (pet weight)-6 7 11=165.75 x 10-6711=777 calories
[0088]           The feeding instructions will then indicate that the cat should receive one
feeding a day, and that the feeding should comprise 1.5 cups of pet food.
[0089]           The above described methods for customizing pet foods and pet products
provide a way for pet food manufacturers to address the individualized health and nutrition
requirements, and preferences, of individual pets and their owners. For example, the
customized pet food and pet products can be tailored to provide a desired nutritional balance
for a pet of a specific age, gender and weight, at a particular time of year, and having a
specific health problem, such as, for example, a food allergy. In one embodiment, application
of the methods to electronic telecommunications and data processing devices enable pet food
manufacturers to provide customized pet food to users located at numerous facilities or
locations, including for example, homes, veterinary offices, retail grocers and retail pet
stores. The customized pet food can be delivered to the user at the site of manufacture, or
manufactured at a site remote from the user and shipped or mailed to the user.
                                                  11

[0090]           While the invention has been described in terms of various specific
embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with
modification within the spirit and scope of the claims.
[0091]           The foregoing detailed description herein refers to the accompanying
drawings, which show exemplary embodiments by way of illustration and best mode. While
these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the
art to practice the systems and methods described herein, it should be understood that other
embodiments can be realized and that logical and mechanical changes can be made. Thus,
the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of
limitation.
[0092]           For the sake of brevity, conventional data networking, application
development and other functional aspects of the systems (and components of the individual
operating components of the systems) cannot be described in detail herein. Furthermore, the
connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent
exemplary functional relationships and/or physical couplings between the various elements.
It should be noted that many alternative and/or additional functional relationships and/or
physical connections could be present in a practical system.
[00931           The present disclosure has been described in terms of functional block
components, block diagrams, flow charts, optional selections and various processing steps. It
should be appreciated that such functional blocks can be realized by any number of hardware
and/or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example, the
system can employ various integrated circuit components (e.g., memory elements, processing
elements, logic elements, look-up tables, and the like), which can carry out a variety of
functions under the control of one and/or more microprocessors and/or other control devices.
Similarly, the software elements can be implemented with any programming and/or scripting

language such as C, C++, Java, COBOL, assembler, PERL, Visual Basic, SQL Stored
Procedures, extensible markup language (XML), hypertext markup language (HTML),
SDML, DHTML, HDML, VRML, with the various algorithms being implemented with any
combination of data structures, objects, processes, routines and/or other programming
elements. Further, it should be noted that the system could employ any number of
conventional techniques for data transmission, signaling, data processing, network control,
and the like.
[0094]          Moreover, it will be understood that each functional block of the block
diagrams and the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of functional blocks in the block
diagrams and flowchart illustrations, respectively, can be implemented by computer program
instructions. These computer program instructions can be loaded onto a general-purpose
computer, special purpose computer, and/or other programmable data processing apparatus to
produce a machine, such that the instructions that execute on the computer and/or other
programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions
specified in the flowchart block and/or blocks.
[0095]          These computer program instructions can also be stored in a computer
readable memory that can direct a computer and/or other programmable data processing
apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer
readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that
implement the function specified in the flowchart block and/or blocks. The computer
program instructions can also be loaded onto a computer and/or other programmable data
processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer
and/or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer-implemented process such that
the instructions which execute on the computer and/or other programmable apparatus provide
steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block and/or blocks.

[00961          Accordingly, functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart
illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions,
combinations of steps for performing the specified functions, and program instruction means
for performing the specified functions.
[00971          As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the systems and
methods disclosed herein can be embodied as a method, a data processing system, a device
for data processing, and/or a computer program product. Accordingly, the disclosed systems
and methods can take the form of an entirely software embodiment, an entirely hardware
embodiment, and/or an embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware.
Furthermore, the disclosed systems and methods can take the form of a computer program
product on a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code
means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer-readable storage medium
can be utilized, including hard disks, CD-ROM, optical storage devices, magnetic storage
devices, and/or the like.
[0098]          The terms "first," "second," "third," "fourth," and the like in the description
and in the claims, if any, are used for distinguishing between similar elements and not
necessarily for describing a particular sequential or chronological order. It is to be
understood that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances such
that the embodiments of the systems and methods described herein are, for example, capable
of operation in sequences other than those illustrated or otherwise described herein.
Furthermore, the terms "comprises," "comprising," "include," "have," and/or any other
variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a process,
method, article, and/or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those
elements but may include other elements not expressly listed and/or inherent to such process,

method, article, and/or apparatus. Further, no element described herein is required unless
expressly described as "essential" and/or "critical."

What is claimed is:
1.       A method for customizing a pet food for a pet, the method comprising:
         a) obtaining a first pet profile information from a user, wherein the first pet profile
information includes at least one of a species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a
gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack
schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a dental health, a coat information, a
digestive health information and a weight of the pet;
         b) obtaining a second pet profile information from a user, wherein the second pet
profile information includes at least one of a preference regarding an ingredient, a food form,
a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture;
         c) correlating the first pet profile information and second pet profile information to a
stored nutritional information; and
         d) determining a pet food blend based upon the correlation of the first pet profile
information and the second pet profile information to the stored nutritional information; and
         e) generating signals to control a factory for preparing the blend; and
         f) manufacturing pet food in accordance with control signals sent to a pet food
factory;
         wherein the step of correlating the first pet profile information and second pet profile
information to stored nutritional information further includes selecting at least one wellness
variable supported by the blend wherein the wellness variable is selected based on the first
pet profile information and the second pet profile information.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining a pet profile comprises obtaining answers
to a plurality of questions regarding attributes of the pet.
                                                   36

3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein obtaining a pet profile comprises obtaining
answers to at least one question regarding a preference of the user.
4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein obtaining a pet profile
comprises obtaining an analysis of a biological sample of the pet comprises obtaining an
analysis of at least one of a saliva, a stool, a hair, a blood, a tissue and a DNA of the pet.
5.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising providing pet
blend to the user.
6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of obtaining a first
pet profile information from a user comprises obtaining a first pet profile information from a
user using a user interface.
7.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising determining an
additive based on at least one of first pet profile information, second pet profile information
and stored nutritional information.
8.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the stored nutritional
information comprises at least one of nutritional information relating to a breed, nutritional
information relating to a pet's age, nutritional information relating to a health condition, and a
wellness variable.
                                                  37

9.      A method for customizing a pet food for a pet, the method comprising:
        a) obtaining, at a user interface, information pertaining to pet attributes and
preferences to form pet profile information, wherein the attributes include at least one of a
species, an activity level, a medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding
method, an age, a spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body
condition, a dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
the pet, and wherein the preferences include at least one of user or pet preferences regarding
an ingredient, a food form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture;
        b) correlating the pet profile information with stored nutritional information to
determine at least one wellness variable;
        c) determining a pet food formula based upon the at least one wellness variable;
        d) generating signals to control a factory for preparing the blend; and
        e) manufacturing pet food according to the pet food formula in accordance with
control signals sent to a pet food factory.
10.     The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining pet information includes obtaining a
biological sample from the pet comprises obtaining at least one of a saliva, a stool, a hair, a
blood, a tissue and a DNA of the pet.
11.     The method of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein manufacturing the pet food comprises:
manufacturing a basal portion and manufacturing a supplemental portion.
12.      The method of claim 11, wherein manufacturing a supplemental portion comprises
manufacturing at least one of a topping, a sauce, a coating, a thickener, a gravy, a topping and
a powder.
                                                 38

13.     A system for customizing pet food for a pet, the system comprising:
        a) a computer;
        b) a user interface, the user interface coupled to the computer and configured to
            prompt a user at the user interface to enter information regarding a pet information
            of the pet, the computer configured to receive the pet information from the user,
            wherein the pet information includes at least three of a species, an activity level, a
            medical history, a breed, a gender, a breeding status, a feeding method, an age, a
            spayed/neutered status, a snack schedule, a biological sample, a body condition, a
            dental health, a coat information, a digestive health information and a weight of
            the pet;
        c) a processor, the processor coupled to the computer and configured to correlate the
            pet information with one or more wellness variables to determine a customized pet
            food blend, wherein the wellness variable is selected based on the first pet profile
            information and the second pet profile information;
        d) an ordering device, the ordering device configured to utilize the customized pet
            food blend to facilitate fulfillment of a pet food order; and
        e) manufacturing pet food according to the customized pet food blend.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the user interface is further configured to prompt a user
to enter information regarding at least one of a preferences regarding an ingredient, a food
form, a flavor, a protein source, a shape and a texture.
                                                 39

                                                          1/10
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2712>
              <U+270F>
                                          <U+271F>
              <U+271F>
                                          <U+2736>
              <U+2736>
                                              <U+2701>
                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+2711>
                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+271D>
                                              <U+2702>
              <U+270E>
                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+2721>
                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+260E>
              <U+2759>
                                          <U+2759>
                          <U+270D>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                 <U+271A>
                          <U+2736>
                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                 <U+2736>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2717>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                 <U+2719>
                                                                         <U+2716>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                     <U+2702>
                          <U+270C>
                                                                         <U+2715>
                                                                 <U+2721>
                          <U+261E>
                                                                     <U+260E>
                                                                         <U+2714>
                                                                     <U+271E>
                                                                         <U+274B>
                          <U+261B>
                                                                     <U+271D>
                          <U+2721>
                                                                 <U+2718>
                          <U+2748>
                                                      <U+2713>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+271D>
                                      <U+2720>
                                  <U+2706>
                      <U+2701>
                                  <U+2702>
                                      <U+271F>
                                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2736>
                                  <U+260E>
                      <U+276F>
                                  <U+2704>
                                  

                           2/10
<removed-date>
                                      <U+2737><U+2711><U+2711>
                | <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720>           <U+2737><U+2711><U+2737>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710> <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C> <U+271D>
                                            <U+2737><U+2711><U+2712>
                 <U+2748><U+271D> <U+261B><U+2706> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720>
                <U+2748><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2706> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720>
                                            <U+2737><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710> <U+270D><U+2702><U+2706><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+271D> <U+270F>
               <U+2710><U+261E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2702><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
                                            <U+2737><U+2711><U+2719>
               <U+2759> <U+2720> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2720> <U+2710><U+270F>
                P<U+271D><U+271E><U+2704><U+2702><U+270F> <U+2710><U+261E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2702><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710><U+261B><U+2720>          <U+2737><U+271A><U+2711>
                <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710> <U+2706><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270C> <U+271D>
                        <U+274B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717>

                              3/10
<removed-date>
                                        <U+2738> <U+2711>
<removed-apn>
               | <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>              <U+2738><U+2711><U+2737>
                <U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+271E><U+261E>t<U+270E> <U+2701><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2721> <U+271D>
                   <U+2702><U+2710><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271F><U+261B><U+2701> <U+271A><U+2711><U+2737>
              P<U+271D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>         <U+2738><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+261E><U+270C><U+2702><U+2710>t <U+2701><U+271E><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2706> <U+271D> <U+271A><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+25CF> <U+2710> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2706> <U+270C><U+2702>t<U+2710><U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271E>            <U+2738><U+2711><U+2713>
               <U+2701><U+271E><U+2710><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720> factory <U+271A><U+2711><U+2713>
                     <U+274B><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E>

                                  4/10
                                         <U+2712><U+2711><U+2711>
<removed-date>
              | <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720> <U+2702><U+2710><U+260E><U+261E><U+2706>          <U+2712><U+2711><U+2737>
                    <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C> <U+271D>
                                                <U+2712><U+2711><U+2712>
              P<U+271D><U+271E><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720> <U+2702><U+2710><U+260E><U+261E><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                <U+25CF> <U+2710> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2706>   <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720>
                                               <U+2712><U+2711><U+2713>
                                               <U+2712><U+2711><U+2719>
              <U+2748><U+271D> <U+261B><U+2706> <U+271D> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2710><U+270F><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
                 P<U+271D><U+271E><U+2704><U+2702><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+270F> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2710>   t            <U+2712><U+271A><U+2711>
                   <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
                <U+25BC><U+261B><U+2710><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+2701><U+2706><U+261E><U+271D> <U+261B><U+2710><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D>
                                               <U+2712><U+271A><U+2737>
                 <U+270C><U+261E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2720>s <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F>
                                               <U+2712><U+271A><U+2712>
                 P<U+271D><U+2702><U+2710><U+2706> <U+2701><U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2720>
               <U+274B><U+261B><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+2702><U+2706><U+261B><U+2706> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2702><U+260E><U+2721> <U+2710><U+2706> <U+2706><U+271E>           <U+2712><U+271A><U+2713>
                       <U+261E><U+270C> <U+271D>
                    <U+274B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2701>

                             5/10
<removed-date>
                                            <U+2711><U+2711>
                                                 <U+2711><U+2737>
                  | <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720>
                     <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
<removed-apn>
                                                 <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+2746><U+2701><U+2701>   <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+271D> <U+270F> <U+2710><U+261E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2702><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710><U+261B><U+2720>
                      <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
                                                 <U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+2749>   <U+2706> <U+271D><U+2721><U+2702><U+2710> <U+271E><U+2710> <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+271D>
                  <U+270D> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2710> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+2704><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B><U+2718><U+2720> <U+270C>
                                                 <U+2711><U+2719>
                      P<U+271D><U+271E><U+2704><U+2702><U+270F>
                  <U+271D> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2710><U+270F><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
                                                 <U+271A><U+2711>
                  | <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2710> <U+271D>
                     <U+2702><U+2710><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+2710>
                                                 <U+271A><U+2737>
                  <U+25CF> <U+2710> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2706> <U+270C><U+2702>t<U+2710><U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+2701><U+271E><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2706> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271F><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+270F> <U+271D>
                          <U+274B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+274B>

                                                     6/10
<removed-date>
                               <U+2748> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2720> <U+2721><U+260E> <U+261B><U+260E><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+270F><U+2706><U+270D><U+2711><U+2706><U+270D><U+2704><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D><U+261B><U+2713>
              <U+2756><U+271F><U+2704><U+270D><U+2714><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2711><U+2704><U+260E><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2717><U+260E> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+271F><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2714><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+2704><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2718><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2719><U+260E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2718><U+2704> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2715><U+260E><U+270C>
              <U+270E><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E> <U+275C><U+2711><U+261B><U+2715><U+270D><U+2704><U+270D><U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+274A><U+270F><U+2720><U+271A> <U+270C><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+270C><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2704><U+2704><U+271E> <U+270C><U+275C><U+270D><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2713> <U+2701><U+275C><U+2711><U+2702><U+270C><U+2714><U+270D><U+261B><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F><U+2711><U+2706><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2711><U+270D><U+261B><U+2704> <U+2718><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715>
              <U+2714><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2704><U+271E>
              <U+2756><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+270C><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2704><U+2704><U+271E> <U+270C><U+275C><U+270D><U+2715><U+2702> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270D><U+261B><U+275C> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2701><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2724><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2711><U+2714><U+2711><U+2704><U+260E> <U+270C> <U+2718><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2718><U+271E> <U+275C><U+2711><U+270C><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+274D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2715> <U+2724><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2725><U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2715><U+2701><U+275C><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2701><U+260E> <U+270E><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2711><U+261B> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2718>
              <U+2749><U+274D><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2706><U+2711><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+270C><U+271B><U+2706><U+270D><U+275C><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2702><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270D> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2701><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2717><U+270D><U+2702><U+270D><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2715><U+260E><U+2717><U+260E> <U+2711><U+271F><U+2714><U+260E><U+261B><U+2704>
              <U+274D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2718><U+271B><U+2726><U+2701><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2704><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2711><U+2701><U+2706><U+275C><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2716> <U+275C><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+2711><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+2706><U+270C><U+2704><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2716><U+2711><U+2706> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+260E><U+2715> <U+260E><U+261B><U+260E><U+2706><U+2713><U+271E>
              |<U+260E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+260E><U+270C><U+2704>
              <U+274A><U+270C><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271E> <U+2715><U+270D><U+2713><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D><U+270E> <U+260E> <U+2716><U+2711><U+2706><U+2714><U+2701> <U+270C> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+270E><U+260E> <U+2713><U+260E><U+261B><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2711><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2718><U+260E> <U+2715><U+270D><U+2713><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D><U+2717><U+260E> <U+2702><U+271E><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
                               <U+2748> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2727> <U+2721><U+260E>   <U+261B><U+260E><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2706><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+270F><U+2706><U+270D><U+2711><U+2706><U+270D><U+2704><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D><U+261B><U+2713>
              <U+2756><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+270C><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2704><U+2704><U+271E> <U+270C><U+275C><U+270D><U+2715><U+2702> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2723><U+270D><U+261B><U+275C> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2701><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2724><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2711><U+2714><U+2711><U+2704><U+260E> <U+270C> <U+2718><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2718><U+271E> <U+275C><U+2711><U+270C><U+2704>
              <U+274A><U+270C><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271E> <U+2715><U+270D><U+2713><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D><U+270E> <U+260E> <U+2716><U+2711><U+2706><U+2714><U+2701> <U+270C> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+270E><U+260E> <U+2713><U+260E><U+261B><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2711><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2718><U+260E> <U+2715><U+270D><U+2713><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D><U+2717><U+260E> <U+2702><U+271E><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+274D><U+270D><U+2713><U+2718><U+271B><U+2726><U+2701><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2704><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2711><U+2701><U+2706><U+275C><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2716> <U+275C><U+270C><U+2706><U+270E><U+2711><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+2706><U+270C><U+2704><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2716><U+2711><U+2706> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+260E><U+2715> <U+260E><U+261B><U+260E><U+2706><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+2749><U+274D><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2706><U+2711><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+270C><U+271B><U+2706><U+270D><U+275C><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2702><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270D> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2701><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2706><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2717><U+270D><U+2702><U+270D><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2715><U+260E><U+2717><U+260E> <U+2711><U+271F><U+2714><U+260E><U+261B><U+2704>
              <U+274A><U+270F><U+2720><U+271A> <U+270C><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+270C><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2704><U+2704><U+271E> <U+270C><U+275C><U+270D><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2713> <U+2701><U+275C><U+2711><U+2702><U+270C><U+2714><U+270D><U+261B><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F><U+2711><U+2706><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2711><U+270D><U+261B><U+2704> <U+2718><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715>
              <U+2714><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2704><U+271E>
              <U+2756><U+271F><U+2704><U+270D><U+2714><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2711><U+2704><U+260E><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2717><U+260E> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+271F><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2714><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+2704><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2718><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2719><U+260E><U+270D><U+2713><U+2718><U+2704> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2715><U+260E><U+270C>
              <U+270E><U+2711><U+2715><U+271E> <U+275C><U+2711><U+261B><U+2715><U+270D><U+2704><U+270D><U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+274D><U+270C><U+2706><U+2715> <U+2724><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2725><U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2711> <U+2718><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2715><U+2701><U+275C><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2701><U+260E> <U+270E><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2711><U+261B> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2718>
              |<U+260E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+260E><U+270C><U+2704>
                                                   <U+274B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>     <U+274B>

                                      7/10
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2747> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D><U+2702>   <U+2748><U+271E><U+260E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2702><U+2721>          <U+25B2> <U+261B><U+2706>   <U+2759> <U+271D><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721>
                  <U+2746>           <U+2746><U+270C>              <U+2746><U+270D>     <U+2746><U+260E>
                  <U+2747>           <U+2747><U+270C>              <U+2747><U+270D>     <U+2747><U+260E>
                 <U+2747><U+2702><U+274B>         <U+2747><U+2702><U+274B><U+270C>            <U+2747><U+2702><U+274B><U+270D>   <U+2747><U+2702><U+274B><U+260E>
                  <U+2748>           <U+2748><U+270C>              <U+2748><U+270D>     <U+2748><U+260E>
                                    <U+274B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+274B>

                                                         8/10
<removed-date>
                                                                                              <U+2756><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+25D7>    <U+2701>   |<U+2702><U+2704>                <U+25B2><U+260E><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D>                             <U+2756><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+2772><U+2702><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D><U+271F>
              <U+2736>         <U+2773>    <U+2746> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711>                             <U+2747><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>                     <U+25C6><U+270F><U+2718><U+2719>
                                                                <U+272A><U+2719><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718> <U+272B> <U+2722><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2726><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B>
                                                                <U+2722><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2723><U+270F> <U+2736> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2736> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2737>
                             <U+2746><U+271B><U+271B><U+2716><U+270F><U+271C><U+2715><U+2722><U+271A><U+2723><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2724> <U+2725><U+2737><U+271A> <U+2724> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2711>
              <U+2737><U+271A>        <U+2773>                                       <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2461> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272D>
                             <U+271A><U+2718><U+2711> <U+275B><U+2719><U+2715><U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724> <U+2725><U+2737><U+2605> <U+2724> <U+2717><U+2605><U+2727><U+2729>
                                                                <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272E> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F>
<removed-apn>
                                                                <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2730> <U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2716> <U+2722><U+270F><U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2737><U+2605>        <U+2773>    P<U+271A><U+2716><U+2723> <U+270F><U+2731> <U+2737><U+271A>                         <U+275A><U+2719><U+271C><U+2723> <U+2732><U+2718><U+271B><U+2733><U+2723>                    <U+25C6><U+270F><U+2718><U+2719>
                             <U+2734><U+2726><U+271A><U+2723> <U+2723><U+2712><U+271B><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2731> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2727> <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E>
              <U+2461><U+271A>        <U+2773>                                       <U+2759><U+2719><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2715><U+2727><U+2723>                      <U+25C6><U+270F><U+2718><U+2719>
                             <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2739><U+273A>
                                                                <U+275A><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2759><U+2722><U+271A><U+2717><U+2717><U+2713> <U+273B><U+2719><U+2711><U+2715><U+2733><U+2722><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2716><U+270E><U+2719><U+2713>
              <U+2461><U+2605>        <U+2773>
                                                                <U+2714><U+2715><U+271A><U+2718><U+2723>
                             <U+2732> <U+275B><U+270F><U+2733><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2711><U+2719><U+2727><U+2716><U+2715><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E> <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2739>        <U+272A><U+2719><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2746><U+2723><U+2715><U+273D><U+2719><U+2713> <U+2759><U+2719><U+2722><U+2715><U+273E><U+271A><U+2723><U+2715><U+273D><U+2719><U+2713>
              <U+272C>         <U+2773>
                             <U+271A><U+2727><U+273C>                                <U+2746><U+2723><U+2715><U+273D><U+2719><U+2713> <U+273F><U+2715><U+270E><U+2726><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2746><U+2723><U+2715><U+273D><U+2719>
                                                                <U+276F><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+2716><U+275B><U+2719><U+2715><U+270E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2719><U+2715><U+270E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2713>
              <U+272D>         <U+2773>                                                                     <U+25C6><U+270F><U+2718><U+2719>
                                                                <U+2740><U+273D><U+2719><U+2716><U+275B><U+2719><U+2715><U+270E><U+2726><U+2723>
                                                                <U+2747><U+2719><U+270E><U+2716><U+2733><U+2711><U+270E><U+2715><U+2718><U+270E><U+2717><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2709><U+271A><U+2727><U+2733><U+271A><U+2717><U+2717><U+2712> <U+270F><U+273D><U+2719><U+2716>
              <U+272B>         <U+2773>    <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E> <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2739> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2723><U+2727> <U+2731><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711><U+273C>              <U+2723><U+2715><U+2722><U+2719><U+2713> t<U+271A><U+270E><U+2719><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2741>               <U+25C6><U+270F><U+2718><U+2719>
                                                                <U+2732><U+2722><U+2722><U+2719><U+2711><U+2715><U+271A><U+2723><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712>
                                                                <U+2759><U+2717><U+270F><U+275B> <U+2741> <U+2709><U+271A><U+2733><U+2723><U+2715><U+270F><U+2733><U+2727><U+2713>                <U+2737><U+2713>
                             <U+2734><U+2726><U+2719><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2719><U+2723><U+2723><U+2715><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2723><U+270F> <U+2726><U+2715><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2719><U+2719><U+2723><U+2713> <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E>
              <U+272E>         <U+2773>                                       <U+2709><U+271A><U+2727><U+2733><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2741> <U+2748><U+2719><U+2717><U+271A><U+271C><U+2719><U+2711><U+2713>               <U+2736><U+2713>
                             <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2739> <U+2715><U+2727><U+273C>
                                                                <U+2725><U+2733><U+2715><U+2742> <U+2741> t<U+271C><U+2733><U+2605><U+2719><U+2716><U+271A><U+2718><U+2723>               <U+2743>
                                                                <U+2738><U+2733><U+2717><U+2717><U+2713>                           <U+2737><U+2713>
                             <U+2732> <U+275B><U+270F><U+2733><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2711><U+2719><U+2727><U+2716><U+2715><U+2605><U+2719> <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E>
              <U+272F>         <U+2773>                                       <U+274B><U+271A><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2759><U+2726><U+2715><U+2718><U+2712><U+2713>                   <U+2736><U+2713>
                             <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2744><U+2727><U+2739> <U+270F><U+271A><U+2723> <U+271A><U+2727><U+273C>
                                                                <U+2714><U+2717><U+270F><U+2727><U+2727><U+2712>                          <U+2743>
                                                                <U+276F><U+2727><U+2733><U+271A><U+2717><U+2717><U+2712><U+2713>                        <U+2737><U+2713>
                             <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E> <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2744><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2727><U+2742><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2741>
              <U+2730>         <U+2773>                                       <U+2759><U+270F><U+2722><U+2719><U+2723><U+2715><U+2722><U+2719><U+2727><U+2713>                      <U+2736><U+2713>
                             <U+2731><U+2717><U+271A><U+2742><U+2712><U+273C>
                                                                <U+2746><U+2717><U+2722><U+270F><U+2727><U+2723> <U+25C6><U+2719><U+273D><U+2719><U+2716>                    <U+2743>
                                                                <U+2746> <U+25C6><U+2715><U+270E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2722><U+271A><U+2716><U+2719><U+2713>                    <U+2737><U+2713>
                             <U+2732> <U+275B><U+270F><U+2733><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2711><U+2719><U+2727><U+2716><U+2715><U+2605><U+2719> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270F><U+271B>
              <U+2736><U+2743>        <U+2773>                                       <U+272A><U+2719><U+2727><U+2727> <U+275A><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2713>                <U+2736><U+2713>
                             <U+2727><U+270F><U+270F><U+271B><U+2715><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2731><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F><U+270E> <U+25C6><U+271A><U+2722><U+2719><U+2739> <U+271A><U+2727><U+273C>
                                                                <U+2759><U+2733><U+2716><U+271B><U+2716><U+2715><U+2727><U+2715><U+2718><U+270E><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2759><U+2715><U+2722><U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>             <U+2743>
                             <U+2735><U+2738><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2733> <U+2726><U+270F><U+270F><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2731><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2733><U+2727> <U+2723><U+270F>
                             <U+2731><U+270F><U+2716><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717><U+271A><U+2723><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2733><U+2716> <U+271B><U+2719><U+2723><U+2744><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+2723>          <U+2759><U+270F><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2718><U+2713> <U+275B><U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2723> <U+270F><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2723><U+2726><U+2719><U+2716>
              <U+2736><U+2736>        <U+2773>
                             <U+275B><U+2715><U+2723><U+2726><U+270F><U+2733><U+2723> <U+271A><U+2718><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2731> <U+2723><U+2726><U+2719> <U+2731><U+270F><U+2717><U+2717><U+270F><U+275B><U+2715><U+2718><U+270E>       <U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+2715><U+2718><U+2727>
                             <U+2715><U+2718><U+270E><U+2716><U+2719><U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+2718><U+2723><U+2727><U+273A><U+2739>
                                                  <U+274B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>      <U+2745>

                                                                                                                  9/10
<removed-date>
                          <U+2665>
                          <U+2713>
                          <U+271E>
                  <U+271E>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+2737>                 <U+2719>
              <U+270C>                               <U+2737>               <U+2719>           <U+2719>               <U+2736>           <U+2719>                 <U+2719>                       <U+2719>       <U+2719>           <U+2719>           <U+2719>
                                          <U+2736>           <U+2736>                                                                                 <U+2736>
                          <U+261E>
                  <U+270E>                       <U+2718>           <U+2718>       <U+2718>           <U+2718>               <U+2718>           <U+2718>       <U+2718>         <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>           <U+2718>           <U+2718>
                                              <U+2718>
                          <U+261B>
                  <U+270E>
                                          <U+2717>           <U+2717>       <U+2717>           <U+2717>               <U+2717>           <U+2717>       <U+2717>         <U+2717>       <U+2717>       <U+2717>       <U+2717>       <U+2717>           <U+2717>           <U+2717>
                                              <U+2717>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2716>           <U+2716>       <U+2716>           <U+2716>               <U+2716>           <U+2716>       <U+2716>         <U+2716>       <U+2716>       <U+2716>       <U+2716>       <U+2716>           <U+2716>           <U+2716>
                                              <U+2716>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2751>
                      <U+270C>
                          <U+2706>
                          <U+272D>
                          <U+2665>
                          <U+2712>
                          <U+271E>
                  <U+271E>
                          <U+2704>
              <U+270C>                                                                           <U+2737>                             <U+2737>
                                          <U+2737>   <U+2719>       <U+2737>       <U+2737>           <U+2737>                           <U+2736>       <U+2736>                 <U+2736>       <U+2719>               <U+2737>           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2736>                               <U+2736>
                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                <U+2718>
                  <U+270E>                       <U+2718>   <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>           <U+2718>               <U+2718>           <U+2718>       <U+2718>         <U+2718>               <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>           <U+2718>           <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+261B>
                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                <U+2717>
                                          <U+2717>           <U+2717>       <U+2717>           <U+2717>               <U+2717>           <U+2717>       <U+2717>         <U+2717>               <U+2717>       <U+2717>       <U+2717>           <U+2717>           <U+2717>
                                              <U+2717>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                <U+2716>
                                          <U+2716>   <U+2716>       <U+2716>       <U+2716>           <U+2716>               <U+2716>           <U+2716>       <U+2716>         <U+2716>               <U+2716>       <U+2716>       <U+2716>           <U+2716>           <U+2716>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2751>
                      <U+270C>
                          <U+2706>
                          <U+272D>
                          <U+2665>
                          <U+271F>
                          <U+271E>
                          <U+271F>
                          <U+261B>
                  <U+271E>
              <U+270C>                                                                           <U+2719>           <U+2737>       <U+2719>                 <U+2737>
                                          <U+2719>           <U+2719>                                                                 <U+2736>               <U+2737>       <U+2737>                               <U+2737>
                                              <U+2736>               <U+2736>           <U+2736>                                                                             <U+2736>           <U+2736>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                <U+2718>
                  <U+270E>                       <U+2718>           <U+2718>       <U+2718>           <U+2718>               <U+2718>           <U+2718>       <U+2718>         <U+2718>               <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>           <U+2718>           <U+2718>
                                              <U+2718>
                          <U+2711>
                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                <U+2717>
                                          <U+2717>                   <U+2717>           <U+2717>               <U+2717>           <U+2717>       <U+2717>         <U+2717>                       <U+2717>       <U+2717>           <U+2717>           <U+2717>
                                              <U+2717>       <U+2717>                                                                                 <U+2717>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                        <U+2716>       <U+2716>
                                          <U+2716>           <U+2716>       <U+2716>           <U+2716>               <U+2716>           <U+2716>       <U+2716>                         <U+2716>       <U+2716>       <U+2716>           <U+2716>           <U+2716>
                                              <U+2716>
                  <U+2751>
                          <U+2702>
                      <U+270D>
                          <U+271E>
                          <U+270F>
                          <U+272D>
                                      <U+271F>
                                      <U+271E>
                  <U+261B>
                              <U+271E>
                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2741>
                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+270D>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                        <U+2768>       <U+2768>
                                          <U+2768>   <U+2768>       <U+2768>       <U+2768>           <U+2768>               <U+2768>           <U+2768>       <U+2768>                         <U+2768>       <U+2768>       <U+2768>           <U+2768>           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2740>
                                      <U+271E>
                                  <U+270C>
                          <U+274B>
                                      <U+271E>
                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273F>
                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2735>
                                                                                                                            <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                <U+2731>
                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                            <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                <U+2723>
                  <U+2702>
                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                    <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                <U+271C>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                    <U+272B>
                  <U+2704>
                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                <U+2730>
                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                        <U+271C>
                                          <U+2737>   <U+2737>       <U+2737>                                   <U+2736>           <U+2736>       <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2736>           <U+2736>                                                             <U+2736>       <U+2736>       <U+271A>           <U+271A>           <U+271A>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                <U+2715>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                <U+271C>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                    
                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                <U+2722>
                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                <U+276F>
                                                              <U+2715>           <U+2715>                                                                             <U+2715>           <U+2715>           <U+2715>
                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                        <U+273E>
                                                              <U+2666>           <U+2666>                                                                             <U+2666>           <U+2666>           <U+2666>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                          <U+273E>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2715>
                  <U+2704>
                                                              <U+273E>           <U+273E>                                                                             <U+273E>           <U+273E>           <U+273E>
                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2666>
                                              <U+271A>                   <U+271A>               <U+271A>                   <U+271A>                                         <U+271A>           <U+271A>           <U+271A>           <U+271A>
                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                  <U+273C>
                          <U+2605>                                                                                         <U+273A>       <U+273A>
                                                              <U+2724>                                                                                         <U+2724>           <U+2724>           <U+2724>
                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                          <U+2666>
                                              <U+2736>                                                       <U+2736>                                         <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+2736>               <U+2736>                                                                         <U+2736>           <U+2736>           <U+2736>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                              <U+273D>                                                                                                     <U+273D>
                                                                          <U+273D>                                                                             <U+273D>                       <U+273D>
                  <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2724>
                                                              <U+2724>           <U+2724>                                                                             <U+2724>           <U+2724>           <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                    <U+273C>
                                                          <U+273C>                                                                                                     <U+273C>
                                                                      <U+273C>                                                                             <U+273C>                       <U+273C>
                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                      <U+272F>           <U+272F>       <U+272F>
                                                                                                                    <U+2729>       <U+2729>
                  <U+271F>                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                    <U+2729>       <U+2729>
                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                  <U+2727>       <U+2727>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                    <U+272B>       <U+272B>
                                                                                          <U+2723>           <U+2723>       <U+2723>
                                                                          <U+2715>
                                          <U+2714>   <U+2714>       <U+2714>       <U+2714>                                                                         <U+2714>       <U+2714>       <U+2714>           <U+2714>           <U+2714>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                      <U+2726>           <U+2726>       <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                    <U+272F>       <U+272F>
                                                                                          <U+271C>           <U+271C>       <U+271C>
                                                                      <U+25B2>                                                 <U+271B>       <U+271B>
                                                                                  <U+2716>
                  <U+2747>
                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                  <U+272E>       <U+272E>
                                                              <U+2715>                                                                                         <U+2715>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                      <U+272A>                           <U+272A>       <U+272A>         <U+272A>       <U+272A>                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2734>       <U+2734>                               <U+2734>
                                                                      <U+2729>               <U+2729>           <U+2729>       <U+2729>         <U+2729>       <U+2729>                                   <U+2729>
                                                              <U+2666>                                                                                         <U+2666>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2733>       <U+2733>                               <U+2733>
                                                              <U+2723>                                                                                         <U+2723>
                                                                      <U+2727>               <U+2727>           <U+2727>       <U+2727>         <U+2727>       <U+2727>                                   <U+2727>
                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+2714>   <U+2714>       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2733>       <U+2733>                               <U+2733>
                                                              <U+2722>                                                                                         <U+2722>
                                                                      <U+2726>               <U+2726>           <U+2726>       <U+2726>                                                     <U+2726>
                                                                                                                    <U+2726>       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2727>                                       <U+2727>
                                                              <U+271C>                                                                                         <U+271C>
                  <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+2725>               <U+2725>           <U+2725>       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                    <U+2725>       <U+2725>                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2732>       <U+2732>                               <U+2732>
                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271B>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2737>       <U+2719>
                                                                                                                        <U+271A>       <U+2736>                       <U+2739>       <U+273A>           <U+273B>
                                              <U+2737>       <U+2719>                                       <U+273C>       <U+273D>       <U+273E>
                                          <U+2736>                   <U+2739>       <U+273A>               <U+273B>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                        <U+2736>       <U+2736>       <U+2736>       <U+2736>       <U+2736>           <U+2736>           <U+2736>
                  <U+2701>
                  P

                                                                      10/10
<removed-date>
                  <U+275E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270C>
                  <U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2712>
                                  <U+2723>   <U+2724>               <U+2736>                    <U+2723>                       <U+2736>       <U+2724>   <U+2724>
                                          <U+2736>   <U+2724>   <U+2736>       <U+2724>   <U+2736>                        <U+2723>               <U+2724>
                      <U+2724>   <U+2736>   <U+2723>                                   <U+2736>    <U+2724>       <U+2736>   <U+2724>       <U+2736>   <U+2724>                   <U+2724>   <U+2724>   <U+2724>   <U+2724>
                  <U+2704>
              <U+270E>
                  <U+270C>
                      <U+2748>   <U+2729>   <U+2729>                                   <U+2748>    <U+2748>       <U+2729>   <U+2729>       <U+2748>   <U+2748>                   <U+2729>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                  <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>            <U+272A>           <U+272A>           <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>
              <U+2701>
                  <U+2725>
              <U+2751>
                  <U+272D>
                  <U+275E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270C>
                  <U+2713>
              <U+270E>   <U+2712>
                                  <U+2724>   <U+2723>                                    <U+2724>                       <U+2724>
                                          <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>                        <U+2724>               <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>
                      <U+2736>   <U+2723>   <U+2724>                                   <U+2723>    <U+2736>       <U+2723>   <U+2736>       <U+2723>   <U+2723>                   <U+2723>   <U+2736>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>
                  <U+2704>
              <U+270E>
                  <U+270C>
                      <U+2748>   <U+2729>   <U+2729>                                   <U+2748>    <U+2748>       <U+2729>   <U+2729>       <U+2748>   <U+2748>                   <U+2729>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                  <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>            <U+272A>           <U+272A>           <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>
              <U+2701>
                  <U+2725>
              <U+2751>
                  <U+272D>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+275E>
                  <U+271E>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+271E>
                  <U+2721>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270C>
                  <U+271D>
              <U+270E>
                                  <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2724>   <U+2736>   <U+2724>   <U+2724>   <U+2736>   <U+2724>            <U+2736>           <U+2736>           <U+2723>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>
                      <U+2723>   <U+2724>   <U+2736>                                   <U+2724>    <U+2723>       <U+2724>   <U+2723>       <U+2724>   <U+2736>                   <U+2736>   <U+2723>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>
                  <U+2711>
              <U+270E>
                      <U+2748>   <U+2729>   <U+2729>                                   <U+2748>    <U+2748>       <U+2729>   <U+2729>       <U+2748>   <U+2748>                   <U+2729>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                  <U+272A>   <U+272A>                                                            <U+272A>
                                          <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>            <U+272A>           <U+272A>               <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>
              <U+2701>
                  <U+2711>
              <U+2751>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+270D>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+270F>
                  <U+272D>
              <U+271D>
              <U+271D>
                  <U+271E>
                  <U+271D>
              <U+261E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+270D>
                      <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>    <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>   <U+25C6>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273E>
                  <U+271D>
              <U+2701>
                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
              <U+261B>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                      <U+2722>                                                                        <U+2722>
                                                                                                                               <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                      <U+271C>
                                      <U+271C>                                                                        <U+271C>
                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
              <U+2721>
                      <U+271B>
                                      <U+271B>                                                                        <U+271B>
                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
              <U+2702>
                                      <U+271A>                                                                        <U+271A>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                      <U+2717>
              <U+2701>
                                      <U+2717>                                                                        <U+2717>
              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                  <U+2746>
                      <U+2719>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                           <U+2735>
                          <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>           <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>    <U+2736>   <U+2736>       <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2735>           <U+2735>       <U+2735>
                                          <U+2736>                                    <U+2736>
                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                  <U+2720>                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                               <U+2719>
                      <U+2718>
              <U+271D>
                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                      <U+2717>
                  <U+2721>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                      <U+2717>                                                                        <U+2717>
                      <U+2716>
                  <U+2725>                   <U+272B>                                                                        <U+272B>               <U+271B>
                      <U+2715>
              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                               <U+2717>
                                      <U+2756>                                                                        <U+2756>
                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                               <U+2729>
                                                                                                       <U+273C>   <U+273C>       <U+273C>       <U+273C>
              <U+2605>
                                                                                                       <U+2718>   <U+2718>       <U+2718>       <U+2718>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                       <U+2726>   <U+2726>       <U+2726>       <U+2726>
                          <U+2727>               <U+2727>           <U+2727>           <U+2727>            <U+2727>           <U+2727>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2701>
                          <U+2718>               <U+2718>           <U+2718>           <U+2718>            <U+2718>           <U+2718>           <U+2735>   <U+2735>       <U+2735>       <U+2735>
                              <U+2735>               <U+2735>           <U+2735>            <U+2735>           <U+2735>           <U+2735>
              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                      <U+273A>           <U+273C>   <U+273A>           <U+273C>           <U+273C>            <U+273C>           <U+273C>           <U+273C>           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                               <U+273B>
                          <U+2726>               <U+2726>           <U+2726>           <U+2726>            <U+2726>           <U+2726>
                                                                                                       <U+2736>   <U+2736>       <U+2736>       <U+2736>
              <U+2720>               <U+2736>               <U+2736>           <U+2736>            <U+2736>           <U+2736>           <U+2736>
                                                                                                       <U+2738>   <U+2738>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>
              <U+271D>
                          <U+273D>               <U+273D>           <U+273D>           <U+273D>            <U+273D>           <U+273D>
                                                                                                       <U+2727>   <U+2727>       <U+2727>       <U+2727>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                       <U+2738>   <U+2738>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>
              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                       <U+273D>   <U+273D>       <U+273D>       <U+273D>
                                                                               <U+2731>   <U+2731>   <U+2731>                           <U+2731>
                                                                  <U+272F>    <U+272F>   <U+272F>                                               <U+272F>
              <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2717>   <U+2717>   <U+2717>                                            <U+2717>
                                                                  <U+272F>    <U+272F>   <U+272F>                                               <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>                           <U+272E>
              <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271B>   <U+271B>   <U+271B>                                            <U+271B>
                                                                  <U+2730>    <U+2730>   <U+2730>                                               <U+2730>
                                                                               <U+271A>   <U+271A>   <U+271A>                           <U+271A>
                                                      <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>                                            <U+2718>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                        <U+2732>
                      <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>                                        <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>       <U+2732>               <U+2732>
                                                                               <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>                           <U+2716>
                                                      <U+2730>   <U+2730>   <U+2730>                                            <U+2730>
                                                                  <U+2731>    <U+2731>   <U+2731>                                               <U+2731>
                                                                               <U+2717>   <U+2717>   <U+2717>                           <U+2717>
                                                      <U+25B2>   <U+25B2>   <U+25B2>                                            <U+25B2>
                                                                  <U+272C>    <U+272C>   <U+272C>                                               <U+272C>
              <U+2747>
                                                                               <U+25BC>   <U+25BC>   <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>
                                          <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>                                                    <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2722>   <U+2722>   <U+2722>   <U+2722>    <U+2722>   <U+2722>   <U+2722>   <U+2722>   <U+2722>                   <U+2722>   <U+2722>   <U+2722>       <U+2722>
                                                                                           <U+2737>   <U+2737>   <U+2737>                   <U+2737>
                                                      <U+272F>   <U+272F>   <U+272F>   <U+272F>    <U+272F>   <U+272F>   <U+272F>   <U+272F>   <U+272F>                   <U+272F>   <U+272F>   <U+272F>       <U+272F>
                                          <U+2726>   <U+2726>   <U+2726>                                                    <U+2726>
              <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2734>   <U+2734>   <U+2734>                   <U+2734>
                                          <U+271A>   <U+271A>   <U+271A>                                                    <U+271A>
                                                      <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>    <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>                   <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272E>
              <U+2706>
                      <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>   <U+2732>                                                                                        <U+2732>
                                                                                           <U+2734>   <U+2734>   <U+2734>                   <U+2734>
                                          <U+2715>   <U+2715>   <U+2715>                                                    <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>    <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>                   <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2716>       <U+2716>
                                                                                           <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>                   <U+272E>
                                          <U+2717>                                                            <U+2717>
                                              <U+2717>   <U+2717>
              <U+2725>
                                                      <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>    <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>                   <U+272A>   <U+272A>   <U+272A>       <U+272A>
                                                                                           <U+2733>   <U+2733>   <U+2733>                   <U+2733>
                                          <U+272C>   <U+272C>   <U+272C>                                                    <U+272C>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2735>                    <U+273A>       <U+273C>   <U+273D>   <U+2727>   <U+2735>                   <U+273A>       <U+273C>
                                                              <U+2736>   <U+2723>    <U+2724>   <U+2739>       <U+273B>                   <U+2736>   <U+2723>   <U+2724>   <U+2739>       <U+273B>
                                      <U+273A>       <U+273C>   <U+273D>   <U+2727>
                      <U+2736>   <U+2723>   <U+2724>   <U+2739>       <U+273B>
              <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>    <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>   <U+2723>
              <U+2701>
              P

