  Abstract
          Systems and methods for facilitating pick up of items delivered to attended delivery/pickup
  locations. In various embodiments, the system is configured for confirming an identity of a person
  attempting to pick up a parcel from an attended delivery/pickup location before releasing the parcel
5 to the person. The system may confirm the identity by receiving identifying information, by
  confirming a geographic location of a person attempting to retrieve the parcel, etc. In some
  embodiments, the system may be configure to enable parcel recipients to provide other persons
  the authorization to retrieve parcels and may be further configured to confirm this authorization
  before releasing parcels to a person other than the intended parcel recipient.

           SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF MANAGING ITEM PICKUP AT ATTENDED
                                    DELIVERY/PICKUP LOCATIONS
    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
             This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/791,008,
  5 filed March 15, 2013, entitled, "Systems and Methods of Delivering Parcels Using Attended
    Delivery Locations," and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/777,968, filed March 12, 2013,
    entitled, "Systems and Methods of Delivering Parcels Using Attended Delivery Locations," which
    are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
             This application has been divided out of Australian patent application 2014248922
 .0 (AU 2014248922). In the description in this specification reference may be made to subject matter
    which is not within the scope of the appended claims.         That subject matter should be readily
    identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice the invention as
    defined in the presently appended claims.
             AU 2014248922 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international application
 .5 PCT/US2014/023638 (published as WO 2014/164855). The full disclosure of WO 2014/164855
    is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
    BACKGROUND
             People and businesses may desire convenient ways to send and receive parcels or other
    items, such as items that those people have purchased or items of inventory that those businesses
 .O may offer for sale. Accordingly, there is a need for improved systems and methods that address
    these issues.
    SUMMARY
             The present invention provides a computer-implemented method of delivering a parcel to
    an attended delivery/pickup location and releasing said parcel to one or more confirmed intended
25  parcel recipients, said method comprising:
             providing, by at least one processor, a selection of one or more attended delivery/pickup
    locations to a first user, said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations comprising one or
    more attended delivery/pickup locations suitable for holding parcels for pick up by recipients;
                                                       1
    10394998 1docx

             receiving, by at least one processor, a request from said first user to deliver one or more
    parcels to a particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations, said one or
    more parcels having one or more intended parcel recipients;
             facilitating delivery, by at least one processor, of said one or more parcels from an origin
  5 location to said particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations by a
    common carrier;
             receiving, by at least one processor, an indication of a delivery of said one or more
    parcels at said particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations;
             receiving, by at least one processor, an indication that said one or more intended parcel
 .0 recipients is attempting to pickup said one or more parcels from said particular one of said one or
    more attended delivery/pickup locations;
             confirming, by at least one processor, an identity of said one or more intended parcel
    recipients, wherein said confirming said identity of said one or more intended parcel recipients
    comprises receiving an identifying input from said one or more intended parcel recipients, and
 .5 wherein said identifying input is selected from a group consisting of:
                      (a) an image of a machine-readable indicia associated with said one or more
             intended parcel recipients;
                      (b) an electronic ID associated with said one or more intended parcel recipients;
             and
 .0                   (c) an image of a photo ID associated with said one or more intended parcel
             recipients; and
                      at least partially in response to said confirmation, enabling release, by at least one
    processor, of said one or more parcels to said one or more confirmed intended parcel recipients.
             The present invention further provides a computer system for facilitating delivery of a
25  parcel to a recipient comprises:
             at least one processor, wherein said computer system is configured for:
                      (a) receiving, from a first user, a first request to deliver one or more parcels to an
             attended delivery/pickup location, said request comprising an intended recipient for said
             one or more parcels;
30                    (b) at least partially in response to receiving said first request:
                               providing an electronic identification to said intended recipient; and
                                                          2
    10394998 1.docx

                               facilitating delivery of said one or more parcels to said attended
                      delivery/pickup location;
                      (c) receiving, at said attended delivery/pickup location, a second request to
             retrieve said one or more delivered parcels by a second user;
  5                   (d) at least partially in response to receiving said second request, confirming an
             authorization of said second user to retrieve said one or more parcels, wherein said
             confirming an authorization of said second user comprises receiving an identifying input
             from said second user, and wherein said identifying input is selected from a group
             consisting of:
 .0                            an image of a machine-readable indicia associated with said second user;
                               an electronic ID associated with said second user; and
                               an image of a photo ID associated with said second user; and
                      (e) at least partially in response to said confirming that said second user has said
    authorization, facilitating a release of said one or more parcels to said second user.
 .5          The present invention still further provides a non-transitory computer-readable medium
    storing computer-executable instructions for:
             (a) receiving, from a first user, a first request to deliver one or more parcels to an
    attended delivery/pickup location, said first request comprising an intended recipient for said one
    or more parcels;
 .0          (b) at least partially in response to receiving said first request facilitating delivery of said
    one or more parcels to said attended deliveiy/pickup location;
             (c) receiving, at said attended delivery/pickup location, a second request to retrieve said
    one or more delivered parcels by a second user;
             (d) at least partially in response to receiving said second request, confirming an
25  authorization of said second user to retrieve said one or more parcels, wherein said confirming an
    authorization of said second user comprises receiving an identifying input from said second user,
    and wherein said identifying input is selected from a group consisting of:
                               an image of a machine-readable indicia associated with said second user;
                               an electronic ID associated with said second user; and
30                             an image of a photo ID associated with said second user; and
                                                           3
    10394998 1.docx

                     (e) at least partially in response to said confirming that said second user has said
    authorization, facilitating a release of said one or more parcels to said second user.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Various embodiments of a system and method for delivering parcels to attended
  5 delivery/pickup locations are described below. In the course of this description, reference will be
    made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:
             Fig. 1 is a block diagram of a logistics system in accordance with an embodiment of the
    present system;
             Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram of a computer, such as the logistics server of Fig. 1, that is
 .0 suitable for use in various embodiments;
             Fig. 3 depicts a flow chart that generally illustrates various steps executed by a parcel
    delivery module that, for example, may be executed by the logistics server of Fig. 1;
             Fig. 4 depicts a flow chart that generally illustrates various steps executed by an Item
    Pickup Module that, for example, may be executed by the logistics server of Fig. 1; and
 .5          Fig. 5 is a transportation diagram depicting exemplary transportation paths that may be
    taken by parcels that are delivered to and/or from attended delivery/pickup locations according to
    various embodiments.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             Various embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the
 .O accompanying drawings. It should be understood that the invention may be embodied in many
    different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather,
    these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will
    fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like
    elements throughout.
25  Overview
             Logistics networks, according to various embodiments, use attended pickup and delivery
    locations to facilitate: (1) the convenient delivery of parcels and other items to individuals; and/or
    (2) the convenient pickup of parcels and other items from individuals who wish to send those items
    to others via a common carrier. In various embodiments, existing retail businesses may be used
                                                        4
    10394998 1docx

    as suitable delivery/pickup locations. For example, a gas station, a convenience store, a flower
    shop, a magazine stand, a retail location associated with a common carrier, a kiosk at a mall, or a
    retail department store may enter into an agreement with a common carrier to accept deliveries of
    parcels (and/or other items) that are to be picked up later, at a convenient time, by the intended
  5 recipient of the parcels or other items. The retail location may also agree to serve as a drop-off
    point for parcels and/or other items that are to be delivered to another location by the carrier.
             In certain embodiments, each attended delivery/pickup location is manned for at least some
    time during the week and is equipped with a computer system that is adapted to communicate both
    with: (1) one or more computer systems associated with the common carrier; (2) one or more
 .0 computing devices associated with the sender of the parcel; and (3) one or more computing devices
    associated with the recipient of the parcel. An example of a suitable computer system is shown in
    FIG. 1 and is described in greater technical detail at the end of this document.
             In particular embodiments, a computer at the attended delivery/pickup location (e.g., an
    "attended delivery/pickup location computer") is adapted to send suitable messages regarding the
 .5 status of parcels handled by the attended delivery/pickup location. For example, when the attended
    delivery/pickup location receives a parcel, the attended delivery/pickup location computer may
    automatically transmit an e-mail, text, or other message to: (1) the common carrier's computer
    system; (2) the recipient's computing device; and/or (3) the sender's computing device indicating
    that the parcel has been received by the attended delivery/pickup location and is ready to be picked
 .0 up by the recipient. The message may also include other suitable information, such as the name
    and location of the attended delivery/pickup location, the days and hours of operation of the
    attended delivery/pickup location, and the deadline by which the individual must retrieve the
    parcel before, for example: (1) the item is returned to the sender; or (2) the recipient is charged for
    late pickup of the item.
25           The attended delivery/pickup location may also automatically transmit an e-mail, text, or
    other message to: (1) the common carrier's computer system; (2) the recipient's computing device;
    (3) the sender's computing device; and/or (4) any other suitable computer in response to any
    suitable event including, for example: (1) the parcel being picked up by the individual; (2) the
    parcel being returned to the carrier after a time period for retrieving the parcel has passed; (3) the
30  parcel being transferred to another attended delivery/pickup location; or (4) any other suitable
    event.
                                                       5
    10394998 1.docx

             In various embodiments, the system may be configured to facilitate the delivery of parcels
    directly to attended delivery/pickup locations from, for example, e-commerce retailers from which
    users may order items for delivery. For example, the system may be configured to allow a user
    making purchases of items via the Internet to have those items delivered directly to attended
  5 delivery/pickup locations. In such embodiments, as well as in other embodiments, the system may
    be configured to present users with a selection of attended delivery/pickup locations for items that
    the user orders.
             In particular embodiments, the system may be configured to present users with attended
    delivery/pickup location options based at least in part on any of the following: (1) a location of the
 .0 user's home; (2) a location of the user's place of work; (3) any location specified by the user (e.g.,
    such as a location that the user frequently visits); and/or (4) any other suitable metric for
    determining an appropriate selection of attended delivery/pickup locations to present to the user.
    In various embodiments, the system may be configured to provide a selection of attended
    delivery/pickup locations that are: (1) within a particular distance of any of the locations described
 .5 above; (2) open (e.g., are available for picking up parcels) at a time convenient to the user; (3)
    have certain hours of operation; and/or (4) any other factor that may be beneficial to the user or
    common carrier in dropping off or picking up parcels from attended delivery/pickup locations.
             In various embodiments, the system is configured to confirm whether an attended
    delivery/pickup location has capacity to accept a parcel before directing (e.g., or redirecting) a
 .0 parcel to the attended delivery/pickup location or before presenting the alternate location as a
    potential delivery location to a customer. This may include, for example, ensuring that there is
    enough physical space at the attended delivery/pickup location to accept the parcel or suitable
    systems in place at the attended delivery/pickup location to accommodate any special handling
    instructions that the parcel containing the item may have (e.g., a requirement to store the parcel at
25  a particular temperature).     In such embodiments, the system may be further configured to
    substantially automatically (e.g., automatically) reserve space at the attended delivery/pickup
    location for the parcel to ensure that the attended delivery/pickup location will not lose capacity to
    accept the parcel before the parcel arrives.
             In particular embodiments, the system is configured to confirm an identity of a person
30  attempting to retrieve a parcel from an attended delivery/pickup location. The system may use
    any suitable technique to confirm the person's identity, such as, for example, receiving an
                                                       6
    10394998 1docx

    electronic ID with which the system has provided the person, confirming a geo-location of the
    person attempting to retrieve the parcel, etc. In various embodiments, the system is configured to
    release parcels only to the parcel's intended recipient.      In other embodiments, the system is
    configured to release the parcel to others, who may, for example, receive authority to retrieve the
  5 parcel from the intended recipient.     In various embodiments, confirming the identity of users
    retrieving parcels may substantially ensure that parcels are not inadvertently released to an
    incorrect person.
             The use of such attended delivery/pickup locations may have a variety of different
    advantages. First, in certain situations, the recipient of a parcel may not typically be home when
 .0 parcels are commonly delivered. In such situations, it may be useful to have the parcels delivered
    to an attended location where an individual is available to accept and/or sign for a particular parcel
    and maintain the parcel in a safe location until the recipient is available to pick up the parcel. As
    another example, an individual may prefer to have personal deliveries made close to, but not to,
    their workplace so that they can retrieve the parcels when they are at work. Shipping items directly
 .5 to attended deliveiy/pickup locations may also provide a cost savings to common carriers and other
    shipping and/or logistics companies by avoiding the need to deliver parcels and other items to the
    home addresses of individual parcel recipients. Rather, the common carriers can deliver parcels
    to several attended delivery/pickup locations that service a particular area where parcel recipients
    can go to collect their parcels.
 .0          Various additional implementations of attended delivery/pickup locations are described
    below, after a brief discussion of exemplary technical platforms and computer system architecture
    that may be used, for example, in implementing various aspects of this concept.
    Exemplary Technical Platforms
             As will be appreciated by one skilled in the relevant field, the present invention may be,
25  for example, embodied as a computer system, a method, or a computer program product.
    Accordingly, various embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an
    entirely software embodiment, or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects.
    Furthermore, particular embodiments may take the form of a computer program product stored on
    a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable instructions (e.g., software)
30  embodied in the storage medium. Various embodiments may take the form of web-implemented
    computer software. Any suitable computer-readable storage medium may be utilized including,
                                                       7
    10394998 1.docx

    for example, hard disks, compact disks, DVDs, optical storage devices, and/or magnetic storage
    devices.
             Various embodiments are described below with reference to block diagrams and flowchart
    illustrations of methods, apparatuses (e.g., systems) and computer program products. It should be
  5 understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations, and combinations of
    blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations, respectively, can be implemented by a
    computer executing computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be
    loaded onto a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data
    processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on the
 .0 computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to create means for implementing the
    functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.
             These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable memory
    that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a
    particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce an
 .5 article of manufacture that is configured for implementing the function specified in the flowchart
    block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other
    programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on
    the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such
    that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps
 .0 for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.
             Accordingly,      blocks of the block    diagrams   and flowchart illustrations    support
    combinations of mechanisms for performing the specified functions, combinations of steps for
    performing the specified functions, and program instructions for performing the specified
    functions.      It should also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart
25  illustrations, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations, can be
    implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer systems that perform the specified
    functions or steps, or combinations of special purpose hardware and other hardware executing
    appropriate computer instructions.
    Example System Architecture
30           FIG. I is a block diagram of a System 110 according to a particular embodiment. As may
    be understood from this figure, the System 110 includes one or more computer networks 115, a
                                                       8
    10394998 1.doex

    Logistics Server 100, a Database 140, and one or more remote computing devices such as a tablet
    computer 152, a desktop computer 154, or a mobile computing device 156 (e.g., such as a smart
    phone, a tablet computer, a wearable computing device, a laptop computer, etc.) In particular
    embodiments, the one or more computer networks facilitate communication between the Logistics
  5 Server 100, Database 140, and one or more remote computing devices 152, 154, 156.
             The one or more computer networks 115 may include any of a variety of types of wired or
    wireless computer networks such as the Internet, a private intranet, a mesh network, a public switch
    telephone network (PSTN), or any other type of network (e.g., a network that uses Bluetooth or
    near field communications to facilitate communication between computers). The communication
 .0 link between Logistics Server 100 and Database 140 may be, for example, implemented via a
    Local Area Network (LAN) or via the Internet.
             FIG. 2 illustrates a diagrammatic representation of a computer architecture 120 that can be
    used within the System 110, for example, as a client computer (e.g., one of client computers 152,
    154, 156 shown in Figure 1), or as a server computer (e.g., Logistics Server 100 shown in Figure
 .5  1). In particular embodiments, the computer 120 may be suitable for use as a computer within the
    context of the System 110 that is configured to facilitate the delivery of parcels to attended
    delivery/pickup locations or facilitate the receipt and/or processing of parcels once they are
    delivered to the attended delivery/pickup locations.
             In particular embodiments, the computer 120 may be connected (e.g., networked) to other
 .0 computers in a LAN, an intranet, an extranet, and/or the Internet. As noted above, the computer
    120 may operate in the capacity of a server or a client computer in a client-server network
    environment, or as a peer computer in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. The
    Computer 120 may be a desktop personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a
    Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a server, a network router,
25  a switch or bridge, or any other computer capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or
    otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that computer. Further, while only a single computer
    is illustrated, the term "computer" shall also be taken to include any collection of computers that
    individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one or more
    of the methodologies discussed herein.
30           An exemplary computer 120 includes a processing device 202, a main memory 204 (e.g.,
    read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) such as
                                                       9
    10394998 1docx

    synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.), a static memory 206 (e.g.,
    flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), and a data storage device 218, which
    communicate with each other via a bus 232.
             The processing device 202 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such
  5 as a microprocessor, a central processing unit, or the like. More particularly, the processing device
    202 may be a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set
    computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, or
    processor implementing other instruction sets, or processors implementing a combination of
    instruction sets. The processing device 202 may also be one or more special-purpose processing
 .0 devices such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array
    (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. The processing device
    202 may be configured to execute processing logic 226 for performing various operations and
    steps discussed herein.
             The computer 120 may further include a network interface device 208. The computer 120
 .5 also may include a video display unit 210 (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray
    tube (CRT)), an alphanumeric input device 212 (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor control device 214
    (e.g., a mouse), and a signal generation device 216 (e.g., a speaker).
             The data storage device 218 may include a non-transitory computer-accessible storage
    medium 230 (also known as a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium or a non
 .0 transitory computer-readable medium) on which is stored one or more sets of instructions (e.g.,
    software 222) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described
    herein. The software 222 may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory
    204 and/or within the processing device 202 during execution thereof by the computer 120 - the
    main memory 204 and the processing device 202 also constituting computer-accessible storage
25  media. The software 222 may further be transmitted or received over a network 115 via a network
    interface device 208.
             While the computer-accessible storage medium 230 is shown in an exemplary embodiment
    to be a single medium, the term "computer-accessible storage medium" should be understood to
    include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and/or
30  associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term "computer
    accessible storage medium" should also be understood to include any medium that is capable of
                                                      10
    10394998 1.docx

    storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the computer and that cause the
    computer to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term
    "computer-accessible storage medium" should accordingly be understood to include, but not be
    limited to, solid-state memories, optical and magnetic media, etc.
  5 Exemplary System Platform
             Various embodiments of a system for delivering parcels to attended delivery/pickup
    locations may be implemented within the context of any suitable logistics service. For example,
    particular embodiments may be implemented within the context of any suitable logistics service
    offered by United Parcel Service, Inc. of Atlanta, GA.             Various aspects of the system's
 .0 functionality may be executed by certain system modules, including a Parcel Delivery Module
    300. This module is discussed in greater detail below.
             ParcelDelivery Module
             Figure 3 is a flow chart of operations performed by an exemplary Parcel Delivery Module
    300. In particular embodiments, the Parcel Delivery Module 300 may facilitate the delivery of
 .5 parcels to an attended delivery/pickup location.
             When executing the Parcel Delivery Module 300, the system begins, at Step 310, by
    displaying one or more attended delivery/pickup locations to a user. In various embodiments,
    these attended delivery/pickup locations include retail stores (e.g., including gas stations, grocery
    stores, and pharmacies), stand-alone kiosks, or any other suitable locations for receiving and
 .0 holding parcels for pick up by recipients. In particular embodiments, attended delivery/pickup
    locations include attended deliveiy/pickup locations, but they may also include unattended
    delivery/pickup locations. In some embodiments, attended delivery/pickup locations may include
    locations (e.g., retail locations) other than the intended parcel recipient's home or business.
             In various embodiments, the system may configured to determine and display available
25  attended delivery/pickup locations based on any suitable criteria. For example, the system may be
    adapted to: (1) allow a user to request that the system display all attended delivery/pickup locations
    within a predetermined radius of the user; and (2) in response to the request, displaying all attended
    delivery/pickup locations within the predetermined radius of the user. In another embodiment, the
    system may be adapted to: (1) determine a location that a user is frequently located (e.g., the user's
30  home or workplace); and (2) displaying all attended delivery/pickup locations within the
    predetermined radius of the location.
                                                        11
    10394998 1.doex

             In particular embodiments, the system may be adapted to allow a vendor or other entity to
    open one or more attended delivery/pickup locations for a particular customer or event. In other
    embodiments, the system may be adapted to allow a vendor (e.g., a particular retailer) to select a
    subgroup of a group of available attended delivery/pickup locations that the vendor's products may
  5 be delivered to, and/or to exclude a subgroup of available delivery locations for delivery of the
    vendor's products. This feature may be particularly desirable for vendors who have a certain brand
    image that is inconsistent with the image of certain attended delivery/pickup locations (e.g., a high
    end jewelry retailer may not wish to have their products picked up at a gas station, but may be
    happy to have their products picked up at a high-end department store).
 .0          The system continues, at Step 320, by receiving a request from the user to deliver a parcel
    to a particular one of the one or more attended delivery/pickup locations (which may, for example,
    have no formal relationship to the user). In particular embodiments, the request may come from
    the user after the user reviews a plurality of available attended delivery/pickup locations (see Step
    310, above) as part of a checkout process when the user purchases an item from an online retail
 .5 store.
             The system continues, at Step 330, by facilitating the delivery of the parcel from an origin
    location to the attended delivery/pickup location. The origin location may include a home of the
    parcel sender, a warehouse associated with an online retailer, a retail store, or any other suitable
    location. In various embodiments, the system may facilitate the delivery of the parcel via any
 .0 suitable common carrier or other logistics provider, etc.
             In various embodiments, a system for delivering parcels to attended delivery locations may
    comprise features in addition to the system described above.           These additional features are
    described more fully below.
    A. Use of Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations within Brick-And-Mortar Stores
25           In various embodiments, an attended delivery/pickup location may be provided within a
    brick-and-mortar store, such as a department store, and used to facilitate the provision of adequate
    inventory to the store. The attended delivery/pickup location may be staffed by a third party (e.g.,
    by an entity other than the brick-and-mortar store), or by the brick-and-mortar store itself.
             In a particular embodiment, a separate attended delivery/pickup location is provided in
30  each individual store within a network of department stores (or within a network of otherwise
    unaffiliated department stores or other stores).           In various embodiments, the attended
                                                       12
    10394998 1.docx

    delivery/pickup locations are used to facilitate the transfer of items between the stores (or the
    purchase of one or more items from the inventory of another, unrelated store). In a particular
    example, a customer may visit a first department store location within a network of department
    stores (e.g., a brick and mortar "ABC Shoes" location in Marietta, GA), try on a particular pair of
  5 shoes in size 10.5, and determine that they actually need a size 11 in the shoes. If the Marietta
    location of ABC Shoes does not have the shoes in size 11, employees of the store may search
    nearby ABC Shoes locations (and/or the inventory of other shoe stores) to determine whether a
    nearby store has the shoes in size 11. Upon determining that another store has the shoes in the
    desired size, an employee of the Marietta store may use their computer to issue a request to the
 .0 identified store (e.g. an ABC Shoes store in Alpharetta, GA, or an XYZ store in Macon, GA.) to
    send a pair of appropriate size 11 shoes to the Marietta ABC Shoes location.
             In response to receiving the request, an employee at the Alpharetta ABC Shoes location
    may bring a box containing a size 11 pair of the shoes to an attended delivery/pickup location
    within the Alpharetta ABC Shoes. Representatives of the attended deliveiy/pickup location then
 .5 facilitate the delivery of the shoes from the Alpharetta ABC Shoes store to the Marietta ABC Shoes
    store. In particular embodiments, this may reduce the overall cost of transporting the shoes from
    the first retail location to the second retail location because the carrier that services the attended
    delivery/pickup locations within the first and second retail locations may deliver items in bulk
    from the first location to the second location on a regular basis. The items may be, for example,
 .0 transported together in a single container and/or transported directly from the first retail location
    to the second location, which may serve to reduce the per-item costs associated with transporting
    the items.
             In various embodiments, when a particular item sought by a customer shopping at a
    particular retail store is unavailable (e.g., such as the shoes in size 11 in the example described
25  above), the customer may request to have the item sent to an attended delivery/pickup location
    other than the attended delivery/pickup location at the particular retail store. In the size 11 shoe
    example above, the customer would be able to request to have the shoes sent to an attended
    delivery/pickup location other than the attended delivery/pickup location at the ABC Shoes in
    Marietta.      The user may, for example, request to have the shoes delivered to an attended
30  delivery/pickup location that is convenient to the user (e.g., such as an attended delivery/pickup
    location located near the customer's home or office).
                                                       13
    10394998 1.docx

             In-store attended delivery/pickup locations may also be used in restocking the store's
    inventory from one or more warehouses (or other stores in the store's network of stores, which
    may include stores that are otherwise unrelated to the store). In particular embodiments, a carrier
    associated with the attended delivery/pickup locations coordinates regular shipments (e.g., bulk
  5 shipments) from each particular warehouse to each particular department store location. In various
    embodiments, new inventory is received at the store by workers who are associated with the
    attended delivery/pickup locations. The workers then coordinate the transfer of the items to store
    employees for stocking.
             In various embodiments, in-store attended delivery/pickup locations may also be used to
 .0 facilitate the return of items purchased from a retail web site that is: (1) associated with the
    department store in which the attended delivery/pickup location is located; and/or (2) not
    associated with the department store in which the attended/deliveiy location is located.          For
    example, in a particular embodiment, an in-store attended delivery/pickup location within a
    particular BIG DEALS department store may be set up to accept returns of items purchased from
 .5 www.Big Deals.com. In such cases, if a user purchases an item from www.Big Deals.com and
    wishes to return it, they may simply bring the item to the in-store attended delivery/pickup location
    within their local Big Deals department store and receive a refund for the item. In particular
    embodiments, there is no shipping charge (or other charge) associated with returning the item.
             As another example, an in-store attended delivery/pickup location within a particular "Big
 .0 Deals" department store may be set up to accept returns of items purchased from a retail web site
    that is unrelated to Big Deals. For example, the in-store attended delivery/pickup location may be
    set up to accept returns of items purchased from a retail web site called www.bestbargain.com. In
    a particular embodiment, if the user purchases an item from www.bestbargain.com and wishes to
    return it, they may bring the item to the in-store attended delivery/pickup location within their
25  local Big Deals department store and receive a refund for the item. In particular embodiments,
    there is no shipping charge (or other charge) associated with returning the item.
             In various other embodiments, the attended delivery/pickup location, the logistics company
    shipping the returned item, and/or the retail web site to which an item is being returned may charge
    the customer for returning the item. In particular embodiments, the return charge may be shared
30  among one or more of: (1) the attended delivery/pickup location; (2) the logistics company
    shipping the returned item; (3) and/or the retail web site to which the item is being returned. In
                                                      14
    10394998 1.docx

    other embodiments, the return charge less the cost of shipping the item back to the retail website
    is shared rather than the full return charge. In other embodiments, the return charge may be shared
    among one or more of the attended delivery/pickup location, the logistics company shipping the
    returned item, and/or the retail web site to which an item the being returned in disproportionate
  5 quantities (e.g., 50% to the logistics company, 25% to the retail website, and 25% to the attended
    delivery/pickup location).
             In particular embodiments, an in-store, attended delivery/pickup location within a
    particular brick-and-mortar store may be set up to: (1) receive items purchased at the store from
    users; and (2) ship the items to a location designated by the user (e.g., to the user's residential or
 .0 business address, or to the address of another individual).        In particular embodiments, the
    individual may: (1) not be charged for shipping the item; (2) be charged a discounted fee for
    shipping the item; or (3) may be charged the full fee for shipping the item.               In various
    embodiments, the charge associated with shipping the item may depend upon the cost of the items
    (e.g., the customer may receive free or discounted shipping of purchases above a pre-determined
 .5 threshold cost). In other embodiments, individuals who are members of a particular shipping
    subscription service may receive free or discounted shipping of items purchased at the retail
    location.
    B. Customization of Networks of Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations
             In various embodiments, the system may be adapted to allow users to define their own
 .0 network of attended delivery/pickup locations. For example, a central logistics computer system
    (which a user may, for example, access via the Internet) may be configured to display respective
    graphical representations of a plurality of attended delivery/pickup locations on a map of an area
    associated with a particular user (e.g., a map of an area in which the user's home or business is
    located). The system may allow the user to select one or more attended delivery/pickup locations
25  displayed by the graphical user interface as the default delivery/pickup locations to which any
    parcels to be delivered to the user by a particular logistics provider are to be delivered. For
    example, the user may select: (1) a first of the attended delivery/pickup locations as a primary
    attended delivery/pickup location that the logistics provider should deliver any of the user's parcels
    to, if the attended delivery/pickup location is available; and (2) one or more alternative attended
30  delivery/pickup locations that the logistics provider should deliver any of the user's parcels to, if
    the primary attended delivery/pickup location is unavailable.
                                                       15
    10394998 1.docx

             In various embodiments, if a particular delivery/pickup location becomes unavailable to
    accept deliveries during a particular period of time (e.g., the delivery/pickup location becomes full,
    or temporarily or permanently closes), the system may modify the graphical representation of the
    particular delivery/pickup location to indicate its unavailability. For example, the system may
  5 display one or more portions of the graphical representation of the particular delivery/pickup
    location in gray rather than black to indicate its current unavailability to accept packages.
    C. Economic Models Associated with Holding Items for Pickup
             In particular embodiments, the system may be configured for, in response to a parcel being
    delivered to a particular delivery/pickup location, generating an e-mail to the recipient of the parcel
 .0 indicating a deadline by which the recipient must retrieve the parcel from the delivery/pickup
    location. In particular embodiments, the system saves this deadline to memory and, in response
    to the deadline passing without the system receiving an indication that the parcel has been picked
    up from the delivery/pickup location by the deadline, the system facilitates the return of the parcel
    from the delivery/pickup location to the parcel's sender. In various embodiments, the system
 .5 facilitates the parcel's return by transmitting a message to an appropriate logistics server
    instructing a logistics provider to pick the parcel up from the delivery/pickup location and return
    the parcel to the parcel's sender.
             In order to encourage customers to retrieve parcels before the stated deadline, the system
    may be adapted to provide one or more financial incentives for the parcel recipient retrieving the
  O parcel by an early pickup deadline that is before the stated normal parcel pickup deadline. For
    example, the system may be adapted to provide the customer with a free or discounted future
    logistics service (or other financial incentive) in response to the user retrieving their parcel more
    than a day before the stated normal parcel pickup deadline. Similarly, the system may be adapted
    to allow users to extend the deadline by, for example, paying a fee to extend the deadline.
25  D. Method of Allowing Individuals to Coordinate Delivery of an Item to an Attended
    Delivery/Pickup Location via a Non-Participating Website
             In particular embodiments, the system may be adapted to allow a user to facilitate the
    delivery of an item ordered on a retail website to a particular attended delivery/pickup location. In
    a particular embodiment, the system first provides the user with an address associated with a
30  particular logistics provider, as well as a code (e.g., a unique code) associated with the user. When
                                                        16
    10394998 1docx

    the user completes an order of an item on a retail website, the user enters the logistics-provider
    designated address in the delivery address field on the retail website, along with the code associated
    with the user.
             As a result, when the retailer sends the item to the user in a parcel, the retailer attaches a
  5 shipping label to the parcel that includes the logistics-provider-designated address and user code.
    The parcel is then shipped to the logistics-provider-designated address by any suitable logistics
    provider (which may or may not be the particular logistics provider referenced above). Once the
    particular logistics provider receives the parcel at the logistics-provider-designated address, the
    particular logistics provider reads the user code and uses the user code to retrieve delivery
 .0 information associated with the user from a data store, such as a database.              The delivery
    information may include, for example, the user's name, contact information (e.g., e-mail address,
    cell phone number, etc...), and the address of the user's preferred attended delivery/pickup
    location.
             The logistics provider may then: (1) facilitate the delivery of the parcel to the user's
 .5 preferred attended delivery/pickup location (or other suitable attended delivery/pickup location);
    and (2) use the user's contact information to contact the user and inform them that the parcel will
    be delivered to the attended delivery/pickup location and provide them with instructions for
    retrieving the parcel. In a particular embodiment, the logistics provider may facilitate the delivery
    of the parcel to the user's preferred attended delivery/pickup location by relabeling the parcel with
 .0 the user's name and address of the attended delivery/pickup location.
             In alternative embodiments, the system may be adapted so that when the user completes an
    order of an item on the retail website, the user simply enters a code associated with the user and
    selects a particular logistics provider to handle delivery of the item to the user. In various
    embodiments, the logistics provider uses the code to retrieve user and delivery information in the
25  manner described above. The logistics provider then uses the user and delivery information to
    facilitate delivery of the item to the user.
    E. Systems for Facilitating Proper Handling of Parcels at an Attended Delivery/Pickup
30  Location
                                                       17
    10394998 1.docx

             In various embodiments, the system may be adapted to remind individuals at each attended
    delivery/pickup location to enter information associated with parcels into the system as the parcels
    arrive at the attended delivery/pickup location. For example, the system may be adapted to display
    a reminder message at predetermined times during each work day that reminds users to use a bar
  5 code scanner associated with the system to scan the labels of any parcels that arrive at the attended
    delivery/pickup location. In other embodiments, the system may be adapted to display such
    reminders around times that parcels are scheduled to arrive at the attended delivery/pickup
    location. This may help to assure that information regarding each parcel is promptly entered into
    the system.
 .0          In particular embodiments, the system may be adapted for receiving information regarding
    the scheduled closure of each attended delivery/pickup location (e.g., holiday closures or
    permanent closures).       The system may further be configured for: (1) communicating this
    information to users; (2) facilitating the rerouting of any parcels that are scheduled to be delivered
    to the attended delivery/pickup location while the attended delivery/pickup location is scheduled
 .5 to be closed; and/or (3) removing the attended delivery/pickup location as an option for receiving
    deliveries while the attended delivery/pickup location is scheduled to be closed.
             The system may also be adapted to employ various techniques for determining that a
    particular parcel has been delivered to a particular attended delivery/pickup location. For example,
    the system may be adapted to: (1) receive an indication that a particular parcel has been scanned
 .0 at drop off; (2) receive data regarding the location at which the parcel was scanned at drop off
    (e.g., using GPS functionality associated with a handheld device or other electronic device); (3)
    compare the location with the geolocations of one or more attended delivery/pickup locations; and
    (4) in response to determining that the location at which the parcel was scanned at least generally
    corresponds to the geolocation of a particular attended delivery/pickup location, verify that the
25  parcel has been delivered to the particular attended delivery/pickup location; and (5) save an
    indication to the system's memory indicating that the parcel has been delivered to the particular
    attended delivery/pickup location. In various embodiments, the system is further adapted to send
    confirmation (e.g., via e-mail, text message, etc.) to a recipient of the delivery of the particular
    parcel at least partially in response to verifying that the parcel has been delivered to the particular
30  attended delivery/pickup location. In particular embodiments, the system is further adapted to
                                                       18
    10394998 1.docx

    send a request for confirmation of delivery to the attended delivery/pickup location and to receive
    such confirmation.
    F. Systems for Facilitating Signature of Documents at Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations
             In various embodiments, attended delivery/pickup locations may be configured to manage
  5 the signature of documents, such as contracts and other legal documents.              In a particular
    embodiment, to facilitate the signature of a contract, a first individual may send the document to a
    particular attended delivery/pickup location to be signed by a second individual. The delivery of
    the document to the attended delivery/pickup location may be facilitated as outlined above, and
    when the document arrives at the particular attended delivery/pickup location, the system may
 .0 notify the second individual that the document has arrived and provide instructions for the second
    individual to come to the particular attended delivery/pickup location and sign the document.
             The second individual may then travel to the particular attended delivery/pickup location
    and, after providing identification (e.g., in the form of an ID card or a code displayed on the
    individual's mobile computing device) to a representative of the attended delivery/pickup location,
 .5 sign the contract. The representative may then verify, in any suitable manner that the contract has
    been signed by the correct individual. For example, the representative may notarize the document
    and/or enter information into a data store associated with the system confirming that the contract
    has been signed by the correct individual. The representative may also create an electronic copy
    of the document and save the signed document into the system's memory for later retrieval and/or
 0  electronic transmission to the first and second individuals.            Finally, the system and/or
    representative may coordinate the return of the original signed document to the first or second
    individual for their files.
             In various embodiments, the document to be signed may include a unique bar code that is
    used to identify the document, track the document, and/or store the document in memory. In
25  various embodiments, the unique barcode may be used to identify the document as well as the one
    or more signors of the document
    G. Provision of Value-Added Services at Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations
             In particular embodiments, representatives at attended delivery/pickup locations may
    provide one or more value-added services on parcels and/or items at the attended delivery/pickup
30  locations. This may occur, for example, as items and/or parcels are being returned for a refund, or
                                                     19
    10394998 1docx

    simply shipped to another location. For example, the representatives may: (1) pack the items for
    shipping; (2) gift wrap the items; (3) facilitate the return of items to a retailer for a refund or
    exchange (see below); and/or (4) complete any other value-added service.
    H. Use of Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations within Shopping Centers
  5          A further use of attended delivery/pickup locations involves providing one or more
    attended delivery/pickup locations within a shopping center (e.g., a mall).           In a particular
    embodiment the attended delivery/pickup locations are configured to: (1) receive items purchased
    at the shopping center from users; and (2) ship the items to a location designated by the user (e.g.,
    to the user's residential or business address, to an attended delivery/pickup location close to the
 .0 user's residential or business address, and/or to another address designated by the user). This may
    allow a user to purchase items at the shopping center and then facilitate transporting the purchased
    items to the user's home or another location without the hassle of leaving the shopping center with
    the items, transporting the items, etc...
    I. Capacity Management Techniques
 .5          In particular embodiments, a computer system may be used to estimate the current and/or
    future capacity of the attended delivery/pickup locations to receive and store parcels. This may be
    done, for example, using a particular algorithm that assumes, for example, that any parcels will be
    of a certain average size and will be stored by the attended delivery/pickup locations for a certain
    period of time before being picked up by a parcel recipient.
 .O          In other embodiments, the system may use more precise methods for monitoring the current
    and/or future capacity of attended delivery/pickup locations to receive and store parcels. For
    example, the volume of storage space within each attended delivery/pickup location may be stored
    within the system, and the actual dimensions of each parcel may also be entered into the system
    when the parcel is received by a logistics company and/or the attended delivery/pickup location.
25  The system may then use this information to: (1) calculate the total volume of parcels that are
    being stored, or that will be stored, at a particular attended delivery/pickup location at a particular
    time; and (2) estimate the available capacity of the attended delivery/pickup location to store
    additional parcels by comparing the calculated parcel volume with the volume of storage space at
    the attended delivery/pickup location.
                                                       20
    10394998 1docx

             In particular embodiments, the system is adapted to determine that an attended
    delivery/pickup location is unavailable to accept additional deliveries if the estimated volume or
    number of parcels stored at the attended delivery/pickup location (or to be stored at the attended
    delivery/pickup location) is within a particular predetermined percentage of the attended
  5 delivery/pickup location's capacity.     For example, if the attended delivery/pickup location is
    determined to be at 95% maximum capacity, the system may determine that the attended
    delivery/pickup location is unavailable to accept additional deliveries. In such a case, the system
    may reroute parcels scheduled to be delivered to the attended delivery/pickup location to an
    alternative attended delivery/pickup location and/or show the attended delivery/pickup location as
 .0 being currently unavailable.
             In other embodiments, the system may use one or more of the following different factors
    to determine whether a particular attended delivery/pickup location has the capacity to accept a
    particular parcel. Such factors include, for example: (1) the weight of a parcel; (2) the dimensions
    of the parcel; (3) average latency of parcels at the attended delivery/pickup location; (4) one or
 .5 more characteristics of the parcel's intended recipient (e.g., how quickly the intended recipient
    usually retrieves parcels from attended delivery/pickup locations); (5) typical characteristics of the
    clientele of the delivery/pickup location (e.g., how quickly the average customer of the attended
    delivery/pickup location retrieves parcels from the attended delivery/pickup location); (6) the
    cubic parcel storage capacity of the attended delivery/pickup location; (7) the density of the parcel
 .0 and/or (7) the ability of the attended delivery/pickup location to extend its capacity to accept
    parcels. The system may also take into account the amount of labor required to physically add the
    parcel to the current inventory of the attended delivery/pickup location.
    J. Methods for Recommending Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations to Users
             In various embodiments, the system may be adapted to recommend particular attended
25  delivery/pickup locations for the delivery of a particular parcel. In particular embodiments, the
    system may be adapted to automatically generate suitable recommendations based, at least in part,
    on: (1) the distance of the attended delivery/pickup location from a location specified by the user;
    (2) the estimated current or future capacity of the attended delivery/pickup location to accept
    deliveries; (3) trends in activity associated with the particular attended delivery/pickup location
30  (e.g., if an attended delivery/pickup location experiences an day-to-day increase in volume above
    a certain threshold, the system won't recommend the attended delivery/pickup location for a
                                                      21
    10394998 1.docx

    predetermined number of days); or (4) any other suitable factors. After the system recommends
    one or more particular delivery/pickup locations, the user may either select one of the
    recommended attended delivery/pickup locations to receive the delivery, or specify a non
    recommended attended delivery/pickup location to receive the delivery.
  5 K.    Methods for Handling a Parcel That Is Destined For an Attended Delivery/Pickup
    Location That Has No Additional Capacity
             In some cases, a logistics system or other system may determine that a particular parcel is
    en route to a particular attended delivery/pickup location that has inadequate capacity to accept the
    parcel. In such cases, the system may, for example: (1) block the delivery of the parcel to the
 .0 particular attended delivery/pickup location, re-route the parcel to an alternative attended
    delivery/pickup location, and inform the intended parcel recipient of the change; (2) hold the parcel
    for a predetermined period of time, deliver the parcel to the particular attended delivery/pickup
    location at a later time, and inform the intended recipient of the scheduling change; (3) deliver the
    parcel to the recipient's home or place of business; or (4) handle the situation in any other suitable
 .5 manner. The system may determine which of the above approaches to take based at least in part,
    for example, on one or more user-specified preferences.
    L. Methods for Determining Alternative Attended Delivery/Pickup Location
             In various situations, such as the situation described immediately above, the system may
    re-route a parcel to an alternative attended delivery/pickup location.        In such situations, the
 .O alternative attended delivery/pickup location may be identified based on, for example: (1) the
    distance of the alternative attended delivery/pickup location from the original, target attended
    delivery/pickup location; (2) the distance of the alternative attended delivery/pickup location from
    the customer's residence or place of business; (3) the last attended delivery/pickup location used
    by the customer; or (4) a previous preference expressed by the intended recipient of the parcel.
25
    M.    Methods for Allowing Customer to Reserve Space in an Attended Delivery/Pickup
    Location
                                                       22
    10394998 1docx

             In certain embodiments, the system may be adapted to allow users to reserve space for a
    particular parcel at a particular attended delivery/pickup location so that delivery to the particular
    attended delivery/pickup location (rather than an alternative location) is guaranteed. The system
    may or may not charge the parcel recipient for making such a reservation. In certain embodiments,
  5 the system provides such reservations free of charge to those subscribing to a paid premium
    logistics service.
             In various embodiments, the system is adapted to allow users to reserve one or more spaces
    (e.g., a block of spaces) at an attended delivery/pickup location. In particular embodiments, the
    system is adapted to allow users to reserves the one or more spaces at a time before any parcels
 .0 are scheduled for delivery for the user at the attended delivery/pickup location where the user
    reserved the one or more spaces. The user may, for example, reserve the one or more spaces on a
    particular day (e.g., or days) in the future. In various embodiments, the ability to reserve attended
    delivery/pickup spaces in advance may allow users to ensure that there will be space at the attended
    delivery/pickup location for a future order that the user is planning, or for a future shipment that
 .5 he user anticipates receiving.
             In particular embodiments, the users reserving the space may include individuals,
    customers, manufacturers, corporations, etc. For example, a company releasing a new product
    (e.g, Apple releasing a new smartphone) may reserve one or more spaces at various attended
    delivery/pickup locations for the release date of the product. The company may then schedule
 .0 shipment of the new product to each of the attended delivery/pickup locations in order to allow
    users to pick up the product ordered by the customer or purchase the product directly from the
    attended delivery/pickup location on the release date.         In this way, attended delivery/pickup
    locations may serve as temporary storefronts for companies who may, for example, wish to
    increase the availability of their product, or facilitate a more convenient purchase or pickup of the
25  product by their customers.
    N.    Methods for Facilitating the Return of Items Using an Attended Delivery/Pickup
    Location
                                                       23
    10394998 1.docx

             Attended delivery/pickup locations may be configured, in some embodiments, to facilitate
    the return of previously purchased items to a retailer for a refund or exchange. For example, in
    particular embodiments, a representative at an attended delivery/pickup location (and/or a
    computer system associated with the attended delivery/pickup location) determines whether a
  5 particular item may be returned/exchanged and: (1) if the item may not be returned/exchanged,
    inform the individual attempting to return the item that the item may not be returned/exchanged;
    or (2) if the item may be returned/exchanged, facilitate the return/exchange of the item in
    accordance with terms specified by the retailer to which the item is to be returned. In a particular
    embodiment, the system may be adapted to: (1) read a machine-readable indicia (e.g., a UPC code,
 .0 a transaction code associated with the sale of the item to the individual attempting to exchange the
    item, or other suitable item identifier) associated with an item to be returned; and (2) use
    information derived from the machine-readable indicia to determine whether the item may be
    returned/exchanged. In particular embodiments, the derived information may include a deadline
    for returning/exchanging the item. If an item is currently eligible to be returned or exchanged, the
 .5 system may optionally determine when the user should receive either a refund for the item or a
    substitute item and provide this information to the user.
             In a particular embodiment in which the user is returning an item to a retail website by
    dropping the item at an attended delivery/pickup location, the system may be configured to provide
    a return label for placing on a parcel containing the item that the user is returning. In various
 .0 embodiments, the return label may expire at the end of a particular return period (e.g., a period
    provided by the retail website in which the user (e.g., customer) may return items to the retail
    website in exchange for a full or partial refund). In particular embodiments, if the return label has
    not expired, the system may facilitate the shipment of the returned item from the attended
    delivery/pickup location to the retail website (e.g., a warehouse, storage facility, or processing
25  facility associated with the retail website) at no cost to the user. In various embodiments, the
    system, in response to determining that the return label has expired, may facilitate the shipment of
    the returned item from the attended delivery/pickup location to the retail website (e.g., a
    warehouse, storage facility, or processing facility associated with the retail website) after charging
    the user a return fee. In other embodiments, if the return label has expired, the system may
30  facilitate the shipment of the returned item from the attended delivery/pickup location to the retail
    website (e.g., a warehouse, storage facility, or processing facility associated with the retail website)
                                                       24
    10394998 1docx

    at no cost to the user; the system may then be configured to notify the retail website that the return
    period for the returned item has expired, and the retail website may charge the user for the return
    (e.g., deduct the cost of shipping the returned item from any refund to which the user may be
    entitled).
  5          In various embodiments, a computer system at each attended delivery/pickup location may
    be adapted to provide users with access to one or more checklists and/or questionnaires that may
    be used to make sure that all parts of a particular item are present before the item is returned to a
    retailer for a refund or exchange.     This may save the retailer time and money associated with
    replacing sub-parts of returned items.
 .0 0.    Methods for Facilitating the Pickup of Parcels or Other Items from an Attended
    Delivery/Pickup Location
             Various techniques may be used to facilitate the pickup of parcels or other items from an
    attended delivery/pickup location. For example, a user may be provided with an electronic ID card
    or other device that may be used to quickly identify the individual and any parcels that are to be
 .5 picked up by the individual at a particular attended delivery/pickup location. Similarly, the user
    may be provided with an application on the user's mobile computing device that facilitates
    identification of the user via near field communications, or one or more bar codes displayed on the
    screen of the mobile device. Such a bar code may alternatively be printed (e.g., as a voucher) and
    presented to a representative of an attended delivery/pickup location to facilitate quick
 00 identification and pickup of one or more parcels stored at the attended delivery/pickup location.
             In various embodiments, the system may be adapted to facilitate the pickup of a parcel by
    an individual other than the intended recipient of the parcel by, for example, having the intended
    recipient transfer the electronic ID card (or a printed voucher generated by the system) to another
    individual. The other individual may then present the electronic or physical ID card or voucher to
25  a representative at the attended delivery/pickup location to verify that the individual is authorized
    to pick up the parcel on the intended recipient's behalf. After the representative uses the system
    to verify the authenticity of the electronic or physical ID card or voucher, the representative may
    transfer the parcel to the individual.
             In various embodiments, the electronic ID card discussed above may be adapted so that it
30  is only valid when the electronic ID card (or a device displaying the card) is located at a particular
    geographic location (e.g., at or near a particular GPS coordinate, or within a particular Bluetooth
                                                      25
    10394998 1docx

    network, or close enough to a particular computing device to communicate with the device using
    near field communications).
             In various embodiments, the system may be adapted to create an electronic token to verify
    that the user's computing device (and, therefore, presumably the user) was present at a location
  5 when a parcel was picked up. This may serve as evidence that the parcel was picked up by the
    intended recipient rather than another individual.
             Various aspects of the system's functionality may be executed by certain system modules,
    including an Item Pickup Module 400. This module is discussed in greater detail below.
             Item Pickup Module
 .0          Figure 4 is a flow chart of operations performed by an exemplary Item Pickup Module 400.
    In particular embodiments, the Item Pickup Module 400 may facilitate the pickup of parcels from
    attended delivery/pickup locations. When executing the Item Pickup Module 400, the system
    begins, at Step 410, by receiving, from a user, a request to retrieve one or more parcels from an
    attended delivery/pickup location. In various embodiments, the system is configured to receive
 .5 the request from the intended recipient of the one or more parcels. In other embodiments, the
    system is configured to receive the request from an individual other than the intended recipient
    (e.g., an individual who may be picking up the parcel on behalf of the intended recipient such as
    the intended recipient's wife, husband, roommate, friend, co-worker, son, daughter, brother, sister,
    etc.).   In a particular embodiment, the system is configured to receive the request from a
  . representative at the attended delivery/pickup location (e.g., an employee), who may, for example,
    be making the request on behalf of the intended recipient or another who has come to the attended
    delivery/pickup location to retrieve the parcel.
             Returning to Step 420, the system continues by, at least partially in response to receiving
    the request, confirming an authorization of the user to retrieve the one or more parcels. In various
25  embodiments, users may have authorization to retrieve the one or more parcels by virtue of their
    status as the intended recipient of the one or more parcels, by virtue of authorization provided by
    the intended parcel recipient, etc. The system may be configured to confirm a user's authorization
    to retrieve the parcel in any suitable manner.       This may include, for example, confirming an
    identity of the user (e.g., confirming that the user is the intended parcel recipient).
30           The system may confirm an identity of the user by receiving an image of an identification
    card associated with the user (e.g., a driver's license, passport, etc.) and comparing information
                                                       26
    10394998 1docx

    that the identification card includes (e.g., a name, address, etc.) with information that the system
    has retrieved that is associated with the intended parcel recipient. The system may derive the
    information from the identification card using any suitable Optical Character Recognition (OCR)
    or other techniques. In particular embodiments, the system is configured to confirm the identity
  5 of the user by receiving input from a representative of the attended deliveiy/pickup location that
    contains information from an identification card associated with the intended recipient and
    comparing that information to known information about the intended recipient (e.g., their name,
    address date of birth, etc.). In other embodiments, the system may display verifying information
    associated with the intended recipient to a representative associated with the attended
 .0 delivery/pickup location who may then manually verify the user attempting to retrieve the parcel's
    identity and notify the system that the user's identity has been verified.
             In various embodiments, the system may be configured to confirm an identity of the user
    by receiving an electronic ID associated with the user that the system may have previously
    provided the user. In particular embodiments, the system may be configured to provide the
 .5 electronic ID to the intended parcel recipient, and the electronic ID may be associated with the
    intended recipient and the one or more parcels intended for the intended recipient. In particular
    embodiments, the system may be configured to enable the intended parcel recipient to provide the
    electronic ID to one or more others in order to provide the one or more others with authorization
    to retrieve the one or more parcels from the attended delivery/pickup location. The system may
 .0 be configured to enable the intended parcel recipient to provide the electronic ID to one or more
    others in any suitable manner, such as, for example, transferring the electronic ID via an
    application on the intended parcel recipient's mobile computing device, by providing an image of
    machine readable indicia associated with the electronic ID to the second user, etc.
             In some embodiments, the system may be configured to read one or more machine-readable
25  indicia associated with the electronic ID (e.g., a barcode) in order to facilitate identification of the
    user. In various embodiments, the system may be configured to read the one or more machine
    readable indicia from a display of a computing device (e.g., such as a smartphone, tablet, etc.)
    associated with the user. In other embodiments, the system may be configured to read the one or
    more machine-readable indicia from a printout including the one-or more machine-readable
30  indicia.
                                                      27
    10394998 1.docx

             In various embodiments, the system is configured to confirm an authorization of the user
    by determining that an authorized user is physically located at the attended delivery/pickup
    location at a time when a user is attempting to retrieve the parcel. For example, the intended parcel
    recipient may register a mobile computing device associated with the intended recipient with the
  5 system, and the system may be configured to substantially automatically determine that the mobile
    computing device (e.g., and presumably the intended recipient) is physically located at the attended
    delivery/pickup location. The system may be configured to make this determination in any suitable
    manner, for example, based at least in part on a GPS position of the mobile computing device; by
    communicating with the mobile device via Bluetooth, near field communications, or similar
 .0 technologies from a computing device associated with the attended delivery/pickup location; etc.
             The system continues, at Step 430, by at least partially in response to confirming the
    authorization, facilitating a release of the one or more parcels to the user. In various embodiments,
    the system is configured to facilitate release of the parcel by verifying that the user is authorized
    to pick up the parcel and instructing a representative associated with the attended delivery/pickup
 .5 location to release (e.g., give) the one or more parcels to the user (e.g., by displaying a message to
    the representative on a computing device associated with the attended delivery/pickup location to
    release the one or more parcels). In other embodiments, the system may be configured to facilitate
    the release in any other suitable manner.
    P. Methods for Facilitating the Immediate Sale and Delivery of Popular Items from an e
  0 Commerce Site
             In particular embodiments, an attended delivery/pickup location may stock one or more
    items that sell frequently on an e-commerce web site (e.g., bestselling books, DVD's, or CD's).
    In particular embodiments, when a user of the e-commerce web site indicates that they wish to
    purchase such an item, the system may search the inventory of one or more attended
25  delivery/pickup locations that are geographically close to the user (as determined by the user's
    mobile device, from information provided by the user, etc...) to determine whether the attended
    delivery/pickup locations have the item in stock. If so, the system may inform the user that a
    nearby attended delivery/pickup location has the item in stock, and provide the user with the option
    of paying for the item online and then picking the item up (e.g., substantially immediately on the
30  same day) from the nearby attended delivery/pickup location.
                                                        28
    10394998 1docx

             In such cases, after the user purchases the item on the e-commerce site, the system may
    generate a physical or electronic receipt that the user may use to retrieve the item from the
    identified attended delivery/pickup location.       The system may also electronically notify the
    attended delivery/pickup location that the user has purchased the item and request that the item be
  5 set aside for the user.
    Q.   Methods and Systems for Training Employees of an Attended Delivery/pickup Location
             In particular embodiments, each attended delivery/pickup location may be provided with a
    client computer that may be switched between an active mode (in which the client computer is
    adapted to facilitate the pickup, delivery, and/or tracking of parcels), and a training mode (in which
 .0 the client computer is adapted to train individuals how to use the system).               In particular
    embodiments, when the client computer is in the training mode, the computer simulates the
    operation of the computer when the computer is in active mode and provides instructions on how
    to properly operate the computer.
    R. Methods and Systems for Conducting a Survey at an Attended Delivery/pickup Location
 .5          In particular embodiments, when a user picks up a parcel at a particular attended
    delivery/pickup location, the user is presented with an electronic survey of their experience at the
    attended delivery/pickup location.      If the user rates the experience highly (e.g., 9-10 out of a
    possible 10), the system invites the user to go onto a social media website, such as Facebook, to
    provide comments and/or other feedback.          This may help to expand the number of positive
 .o comments on the social media website.
    S. Provision of Customized Web Site for Each Attended Delivery/pickup Location
             In various embodiments, the system is adapted to provide a customized website for each
    attended delivery/pickup location. The website may include a private portion that may only be
    accessed by individuals associated with the particular attended delivery/pickup location.          This
25  private portion may display, for example, information regarding how much the attended
    delivery/pickup     location has earned through delivery/pickup activities and other relevant
    information.
             The website may also include a public portion that allows the particular attended
    delivery/pickup location to advertise special offers, such as offers for discounted merchandise. In
                                                       29
    10394998 1docx

    particular embodiments, particular offers may only if the user retrieves their one or more parcels
    from the attended delivery/pickup location before a particular location.
    T. Methods for Enabling Users to Define Attended Delivery/Pickup Location Attributes
             In particular embodiments, the system is adapted to allow users of the system to define and
  5 change various attributes associated with a particular attended delivery/pickup location. Particular
    attributes which a user may define include, for example, the hours of operation of the attended
    delivery/pickup location,. For example, a user may define hours of operation based at least in part
    on the hours of operation of the retail store at which the attended delivery/pickup location is
    located. In various embodiments, users may define hours of operation based on any other suitable
 .0 factor and may change hours of operation for any suitable reason (e.g., based at least in part on or
    due to staff availability to man the attended delivery/pickup location, based at least in part on
    holidays or holiday schedules, etc.)
             In other embodiments, users may define which particular items may be delivered to and/
    or temporarily stored at the attended delivery/pickup location. For example, a user may define an
 .5 attended delivery/pickup location such that the attended delivery/pickup location may only accept
    a particular model of a new mobile computing device. In particular embodiments, the system may
    be configured to limit accepted items to allowed items by using one or more stock-keeping units
    (e.g., SKUs) associated with the allowed items. In other embodiments, the system may ensure that
    only allowed items are accepted by the attended deliveiy/pickup location using any other suitable
 0  technique (e.g., by scanning a barcode associated with an item when it is presented to the attended
    deliveiy/pickup location, etc.)
             In particular embodiments the system may be configured to allow a user to define any other
    attribute associated with the attended delivery/pickup location.       In various embodiments, the
    system may be configured to receive a listing of one or more users who are authorized to define
25  and/or change the various attributes associated with the attended delivery/pickup location.
    Authorized users may include, for example, the owner of the attended delivery/pickup location,
    the owner of the retail store in which the attended delivery/pickup location is located, an authorized
    manager or employee of the attended delivery/pickup location or the retail store with which the
    attended delivery/pickup location is associated, an authorized representative of a logistics
30  company associated with facilitating delivery and/or pickup of items to or from the attended
    delivery/pickup location, etc.
                                                      30
    10394998 1docx

    U.    Methods for Facilitating Substantially Anonymous Delivery to and Pickup from an
    Attended Delivery/Pickup Location
             In particular embodiments, the system is adapted to enable a user to request delivery of one
    or more items to an attended delivery/pickup location substantially anonymously. As a particular
  5 example, a user may order one or more items from an online retailer for delivery to a particular
    attended delivery/pickup location. In various embodiments, the system may enable the user to
    complete a transaction with the online retailer for the item as a guest (e.g., without logging into an
    account associated with the user or the online retailer). The user may then request, as part of the
    transaction, that the one or more items be delivered to an attended delivery/pickup location. In
 .0 particular embodiments, the system may be configured to facilitate delivery of the one or more
    items to the attended delivery/pickup location without associating a name or other identifying
    characteristic of the user with the one or more items.
             The system may, in various embodiments, assign an alias to the user (e.g., such as a unique
    identifying string of characters, etc.) In other embodiments, the system may be configured to
 .5 associate a confirmation number with the shipment of the one or more items.                In various
    embodiments, the system may be adapted to require the user to present something other than a
    proof of identification of the user when the user goes to the attended delivery/pickup location to
    pick up the one or more items. For example, the system may require the user to present the
    confirmation number or alias in order to retrieve the one or more items, the system may require
  0 the user to show an e-mail, text message, or other suitable confirmation message confirming that
    the user placed the order for the one or more items, etc. In other embodiments, the system may be
    configured to require confirmation by a user picking up the one or more items from the attended
    delivery/pickup location that the user placed the order for the one or more items in any other
    suitable manner (e.g., a manner in which the user's anonymity is substantially maintained).
25  V. Systems for Determining Suitability of Locations as Attended Delivery/Pickup Locations
             In various embodiments, the system is configured to determine a suitability of a particular
    location to serve as a location for an attended delivery/pickup location. In particular embodiments,
    the determination is based on, for example: (1) a number of returns that occur at the particular
    location (e.g., where the particular location is a retail location); (2) a number of complaints about
30  the location (e.g., complaints from customers of a business at the location); (3) geographic and
                                                      31
    10394998 1docx

    demographic data associated with the particular location; (4) third party commercially available
    data (e.g., a volume of sales at a business associated with the particular location, an average number
    of customers that patronize a business associated with the particular location, etc.); and (5) any
    other suitable factor.
  5          In particular embodiments, determination of suitability for a location as an attended
    delivery/pickup location is determined using any suitable technique used by retailers or other
    businesses when selecting a suitable location to open a particular business. In other embodiments,
    the determination is based at least in part on logistics data (e.g., based at least in part on particular
    shipping routes utilized by logistics companies, etc.). In other embodiments, the determination
 .0 may be based on any suitable combination of the factors discussed above, or any other factors.
    W. Flexible Activation of Alternative Delivery Locations
             In various embodiments, the system is adapted to allow a user to quickly activate and/or
    deactivate one or more attended delivery/pickup locations, and/or to create one or more time
    limited attended delivery/pickup locations (e.g., alternative delivery locations that are set to exist
 .5 for only a pre-determined amount of time). In a particular embodiment, the system is adapted to
    allow a user to set up a particular attended delivery/pickup location by: (1) specifying the attended
    delivery/pickup location; (2) specifying a start time for the attended delivery/pickup location to be
    in existence; and (3) specifying an end time for the attended delivery/pickup location to be in
    existence. In various embodiments, the start time is selected to occur at about the beginning of a
 0  particular event (e.g., a particular concert, party, sporting event, or other event), and the end time
    is selected to occur at about the end of the particular event. In particular embodiments, the event
    may be staffed by one or more individuals associated with the particular event.
    X. Regularly Scheduled Pickups
             In various embodiments, the system is adapted to coordinate pickups, on a regular basis
25  (e.g., daily, weekly, etc...) from a particular location. Such pickups may be made by one or more
    logistics providers that service attended delivery/pickup locations.            This service may be
    implemented for a fee, or for no charge.
             In particular embodiments, the system may be adapted to allow individuals to issue a real
    time pickup request to have a parcel picked up at a particular location. In particular embodiments,
30  the system may be adapted to automatically select a common carrier from a plurality of common
                                                       32
    10394998 1docx

    carriers to handle the requested parcel pickup. The system may do this, for example, by: (1)
    informing a plurality of common carriers of the request; (2) accepting one or more respective bid
    prices from each of the plurality of common carriers for which the respective common carriers
    would be willing to handle the requested parcel pickup; (3) based, at least in part, on the respective
  5 bid prices, selecting a particular one of the plurality of common carriers to handle the request; and
    (4) in response to selecting the particular common carrier, facilitating the pickup of the parcel by
    the particular common carrier.
    Y. Automatic Tariff Changes
             In various embodiments, the system is adapted to calculate the amount that a particular
 .0 individual will pay in parcel shipping charges in a way that is customized for the situation at hand.
    For example, the shipping charge associated with shipping a parcel from a particular on-line
    retailer to an individual may be based, at least in part, on: (1) the current availability and/or
    capacity of an attended delivery/pickup location to which the parcel is to be delivered; (2) the
    frequency of the individual's purchasing and/or shipment activity (e.g., frequent purchasers and/or
 .5 shippers may receive a discount); (3) the carrier handling the delivery; (4) loyalty to a particular
    attended delivery/pickup location; (5) loyalty to the carrier handling the delivery; and/or (6) total
    frequency of shipments to the attended delivery/pickup location on the individual's behalf. In
    particular embodiments, the system may be customizable by any suitable party (e.g., the owner of
    an attended delivery/pickup location) or any combination of suitable parties to calculate
 .0 customized shipping rates based on any combination of any suitable factors, such as the factors
    listed above.
    Z. Exemplary Delivery Configurations
             In particular embodiments, the system may be adapted to facilitate the delivery of one or
    more parcels between various different types of locations. For example, the system may be
25  adapted to facilitate the delivery of one or more parcels from: (1) an attended delivery/pickup
    location to an individual's home; (2) an attended delivery/pickup location to another attended
    delivery/pickup location; (3) an individual's home to an attended delivery/pickup location; and (4)
    a first individual's home to a second individual's home.
    Illustrative Example
                                                       33
    10394998 1docx

             Figure 5 depicts an exemplary transportation diagram that generally illustrates the delivery
    of a parcel 500 directly to an attended delivery/pickup location 512, 514, 516.            As may be
    understood from this figure, parcel recipients may elect to have parcels delivered directly to
    attended delivery/pickup locations 512, 514, 516 rather than to other locations that are more
  5 closely associated with the parcel recipient (e.g., the parcel recipient's home or workplace). In
    various embodiments, a system for coordinating the delivery of parcels to attended delivery/pickup
    locations may provide each potential parcel recipient with a selection of attended delivery/pickup
    locations from which the parcel recipient may select one or more attended delivery/pickup
    locations to have their inbound parcels to be delivered to. For example, the system may present
 .0 the user with a plurality of attended delivery/pickup locations (e.g., such as delivery locations 512,
    514, 516).      These attended delivery/pickup locations may include attended delivery/pickup
    locations that are located near (e.g., within a particular distance of) one or more locations such as
    the parcel recipient's home, the parcel recipient's place of work, or any other location that is
    closely associated with the parcel recipient.
 .5          For example, a particular attended delivery/pickup location 512 may be a gas station
    located half a mile from the user's workplace 513. Another attended delivery/pickup location 514
    may be a grocery store three blocks from the user's apartment 515.              Yet another attended
    delivery/pickup location 516 may include a flower shop next door to a gymnasium 517 of which
    the user is a member. As may be understood from Figure 4, a common carrier (e.g., or other
 .0 logistics company) may deliver parcels directly to such attended delivery/pickup locations rather
    than to the locations that are more closely associated with the parcel recipient 513, 515, 517.
             As noted above, delivering to attended delivery/pickup locations rather than particular
    addresses (e.g., such as home addresses) more closely associated with particular parcel recipient
    may be beneficial for common carriers in that it may reduce the total number of addresses that the
25  common carrier may need to deliver parcels to in a particular day. This process may also be
    advantageous to parcel recipients because it may assure that their parcel is delivered to a
    convenient, attended location. This may, for example, eliminate the risk associated with having
    the common carrier leave the parcel outside the parcel recipient's home, or with having the parcel
    misplaced or improperly routed within the parcel recipient's workplace.                  In particular
30  embodiments, the system is configured to deliver a parcel to whichever attended delivery/pickup
    location (e.g., attended delivery/pickup location 512, 514, or 516) the user selects.
                                                      34
    10394998 1.docx

   Conclusion
            Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one
   skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in
   the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. While examples discussed above cover
 5 the use of the invention in the context of attended delivery/pickup locations (e.g., attended retail
   delivery/pickup locations), the invention may be used in any other suitable context, such as within
   the context of: (1) unattended delivery/pickup locations; (2) attended delivery-only locations; (3)
   attended pickup-only location; (4) unattended deliveiy-only locations; and (5) unattended pickup
   only locations. Therefore, it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific
.0 embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included
   within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are
   used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for the purposes of limitation.
            The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting at least
   in part of. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include the term
.5 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each statement can also
   be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in similar
   manner.
            In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other external
   documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of providing a context
.0 for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to such
   external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such documents, or such sources of
   information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the common general knowledge in
   the art.
                                                     35
   10394998 1.docx

                                                      Claims
    What is claimed is:
             1.       A computer-implemented method of delivering a parcel to an attended
    delivery/pickup location and releasing said parcel to one or more confirmed intended parcel
  5 recipients, said method comprising:
             providing, by at least one processor, a selection of one or more attended delivery/pickup
    locations to a first user, said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations comprising one or
    more attended delivery/pickup locations suitable for holding parcels for pick up by recipients;
             receiving, by at least one processor, a request from said first user to deliver one or more
 .0 parcels to a particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations, said one or
    more parcels having one or more intended parcel recipients;
             facilitating delivery, by at least one processor, of said one or more parcels from an origin
    location to said particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations by a
    common carrier;
 .5          receiving, by at least one processor, an indication of a delivery of said one or more
    parcels at said particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations;
             receiving, by at least one processor, an indication that said one or more intended parcel
    recipients is attempting to pickup said one or more parcels from said particular one of said one or
    more attended delivery/pickup locations;
 .0          confirming, by at least one processor, an identity of said one or more intended parcel
    recipients, wherein said confirming said identity of said one or more intended parcel recipients
    comprises receiving an identifying input from said one or more intended parcel recipients, and
    wherein said identifying input is selected from a group consisting of:
                      (a) an image of a machine-readable indicia associated with said one or more
25           intended parcel recipients;
                      (b) an electronic ID associated with said one or more intended parcel recipients;
             and
                      (c) an image of a photo ID associated with said one or more intended parcel
             recipients; and
30           at least partially in response to said confirmation, enabling release, by at least one
    processor, of said one or more parcels to said one or more confirmed intended parcel recipients.
                                                        36
    10394998 1.docx

             2.       The computer-implemented method of Claim 1, wherein said one or more
    intended parcel recipients comprise said first user.
  5          3.       The computer-implemented method of Claim I or Claim 2, wherein:
             receiving said identifying input from said one or more intended parcel recipients
    comprises receiving said identifying input from a representative associated with said particular
    one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations; and
             enabling release of said one or more parcels to said one or more confirmed intended
 .0 parcel recipients comprises providing one or more instructions to said representative to release
    said one or more parcels.
             4.       The computer-implemented method of Claims 1-3, wherein said confirming said
    identity of said one or more intended parcel recipients comprises substantially automatically
 .5 confirming a location of said one or more intended parcel recipients.
             5.       The computer-implemented method of Claim 4, wherein said confirming said
    location of said one or more intended parcel recipients comprises determining that a computing
    device associated with said one or more parcel recipients is geographically located at said
 .0 particular one of said one or more attended delivery/pickup locations.
             6.       A computer system for facilitating delivery of a parcel to a recipient comprises:
             at least one processor, wherein said computer system is configured for:
                      (a) receiving, from a first user, a first request to deliver one or more parcels to an
25           attended delivery/pickup location, said request comprising an intended recipient for said
             one or more parcels;
                      (b) at least partially in response to receiving said first request:
                               providing an electronic identification to said intended recipient; and
                               facilitating delivery of said one or more parcels to said attended
30                    delivery/pickup location;
                                                          37
    10394998 1.docx

                      (c) receiving, at said attended delivery/pickup location, a second request to
             retrieve said one or more delivered parcels by a second user;
                      (d) at least partially in response to receiving said second request, confirming an
             authorization of said second user to retrieve said one or more parcels, wherein said
  5          confirming an authorization of said second user comprises receiving an identifying input
             from said second user, and wherein said identifying input is selected from a group
             consisting of:
                               an image of a machine-readable indicia associated with said second user;
                               an electronic ID associated with said second user; and
 .0                            an image of a photo ID associated with said second user; and
                      (e) at least partially in response to said confirming that said second user has said
             authorization, facilitating a release of said one or more parcels to said second user.
             7.       The computer system of Claim 6, wherein said computer system is further
 .5 configured for enabling said intended recipient to provide said electronic identification to said
    second user.
             8.       The computer system of Claim 7, wherein said computer system is further
    configured to display said electronic identification on a computing device associated with said
 .0 second user.
             9.       The computer system of any one of Claims 6-8, wherein said second user is said
    intended recipient.
25            10.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer-executable
    instructions for:
             (a) receiving, from a first user, a first request to deliver one or more parcels to an
    attended delivery/pickup location, said first request comprising an intended recipient for said one
    or more parcels;
30           (b) at least partially in response to receiving said first request facilitating delivery of said
    one or more parcels to said attended delivery/pickup location;
                                                          38
    10394998 1.docx

             (c) receiving, at said attended delivery/pickup location, a second request to retrieve said
    one or more delivered parcels by a second user;
             (d) at least partially in response to receiving said second request, confirming an
    authorization of said second user to retrieve said one or more parcels, wherein said confirming an
  5 authorization of said second user comprises receiving an identifying input from said second user,
    and wherein said identifying input is selected from a group consisting of:
                              an image of a machine-readable indicia associated with said second user;
                              an electronic ID associated with said second user; and
                              an image of a photo ID associated with said second user; and
 .0          (e) at least partially in response to said confirming that said second user has said
    authorization, facilitating a release of said one or more parcels to said second user.
             11.      The non-transitory computer-readable medium of Claim 10, wherein said first
    request is a request to deliver one or more items ordered from an online retail website to said
 .5 attended delivery/pickup location.
             12.      The non-transitory computer-readable medium of Claim 10 or Claim 11, wherein
    said confirming said authorization of said second user to retrieve said one or more parcels
    comprises substantially automatically confirming a location of said second user.
 .0
             13.      The non-transitory computer-readable medium of Claim 12, wherein confirming
    said location of said second user comprises determining that a computing device associated with
    said second user is geographically located at said attended delivery/pickup location.
25            14.     The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of Claims 10-13,
    wherein said facilitating said release of said one or more parcels to said second user comprises
    displaying an instruction to release said one or more parcels on a display associated with a
    computing device associated with said attended delivery/pickup location to a representative
    associated with said attended delivery/pickup location.
30
                                                         39
    10394998 1.docx

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
