Abstract
A blank made of a foldable material, such as corrugated cardboard, paperboard, or cardboard,
for producing machine-erectable packaging, the packaging comprising: a base and two side
walls attached thereto so as to hinge, a back wall and a front wall as well as two connecting
tabs attached to the front wall and two to the back wall so as to hinge for connecting the side
walls to the front wall and the back wall, a non-tensioned elastic element attached to the
connecting tabs, which are attached to the front wall so as to hinge, and wherein the unstressed
elastic element comprises an elastic band having free ends facing away from each other with
the unstressed band being placed onto the two connecting flaps of the front panel and the front
panel as a strip in a flat transport condition of the blank.

Figure 9                     Figure 11
      9     30a               9     2f 30a 10
                30b 30b
                13  2h
                    2a
15    2b                      15       14  5
                     30a/30b
     Figure 10
                                    2f
            2a
                                             2e
    2d
      2b

                                    Blank and resulting packaging
This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014350253, the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.             Most of the disclosure of that
application is included herein.      However, reference may be made to the specification of that
application as filed to gain further understanding of the invention claimed herein.
The invention relates to a blank made of a foldable material, such as corrugated cardboard,
paperboard, or cardboard, for producing machine-erectable packaging, for example, a tray as
well as packaging produced from such a blank. The blank has a base and two side walls
connected thereto so as to hinge, a back wall and a front wall as well as optionally two
connecting tabs connected to the front wall and two connected to the back wall so as to hinge
for connecting the side walls to the front wall and the back wall respectively.
DE 10 2004 015 576 Al proposes a blank of a shelf tray produced therefrom and having an elastic
retraction means. The blank has a rectangular base, the four edges of which have side walls, a back
wall as well as a front wall attached thereto so as to hinge. There are two connecting tabs provided
on the back wall for connecting the back wall to the side walls. In addition, there are connecting tabs
provided on the side walls for connecting the side walls to the front wall. There are two ends of an
elastic element attached to the front wall such that the ends are directed toward one another and a
loop of the elastic element lies on the inside of the erected tray. There are additional tabs provided
on the front wall that can be folded up onto the front wall such that the ends of the elastic element lie
between the tabs and the front wall. The elastic element is attached to the front wall after the tray is
erected from the blank, and subsequently the tabs are folded up onto the front wall. Following this,
the elastic element is tensioned and products are filled into the tray such that the elastic element
surrounds them from the back wall and along the side walls and pulls them in the direction of the
front wall. This results in automatic advancing of products within the tray.
It is furthermore known to provide a slide, which is pulled in the direction of the front wall of
the tray by means of a closed elastic ring, in a tray or similar packaging. US 2,937,742
describes such a slide, which can be pulled within the tray from the back wall in the direction
of the front wall by an elastic ring attached to the front wall.
The as of yet unpublished international patent application PCT/GB2013/051755 describes a blank
and packaging of the aforementioned type. In this case, it is proposed to attach a strip made of an
elastic material such that it serves as a product feed for products held in the packaging. The
attachment of the elastic strip is carried out, for example, in that the non-tensioned strip is glued
onto the side walls of the partially erected packaging, wherein subsequently the front wall of the
packaging is erected and connecting tabs are glued onto the side walls by means of the attachment

area of the strip. As an alternative to this, it is proposed to connect the elastic strip, in a pretensioned
state, to the two side walls and the back wall of the flat blank before erecting the packaging. The
connection to the back wall can be detached, for example, as the packaging is being opened. With
the first-mentioned alternative, the tensioning of the elastic strip takes place before the erecting of
the front wall and the connecting of the connecting tabs of the front wall to the side walls in that a
cassette is pushed into the packaging through the opening area, which is subsequently closed by
the front wall, and thereby displaces the elastic strip. In this state, the front wall can be closed and
the packaging filled. Subsequently, the cassette is removed so that the elastic strip pushes the
products within the packaging in the direction of the front wall.
 In at least some embodiments the present invention provides a blank and packaging of the
aforementioned type comprising features that further improve the production and handling,
particularly when filling the packaging.
The present invention provides a blank made of a foldable material for producing machine
erectable packaging, the packaging comprising:
         a base and two side walls attached thereto so as to hinge,
         a back wall and a front wall as well as two connecting tabs attached to the front wall and
two to the back wall so as to hinge for connecting the side walls to the front wall and the back
wall,
         a non-tensioned elastic element attached to the connecting tabs, which are attached to
the front wall so as to hinge, and
         wherein the unstressed elastic element comprises an elastic band having free ends
facing away from each other with the unstressed band being placed onto the two connecting
flaps of the front panel and the front panel as a strip in a flat transport condition of the blank.
Disclosed herein is also a blank made of a foldable material, such as corrugated cardboard,
paperboard, or cardboard, for producing machine-erectable packaging, packaging, the
packaging comprising:
         a base and two side walls attached thereto so as to hinge,
         a back wall and a front wall as well as two connecting tabs attached to the front wall
and two to the back wall so as to hinge for connecting the side walls to the front wall and the
back wall,
         a non-tensioned elastic element attached to the connecting tabs, which are attached to
the front wall so as to hinge, and
         a retention tab that is attached so as to hinge to the back wall on the edge facing away from
the base, the width of which retention tab is defined by free edges or crease lines or bend lines and
is less than the width of the base between the side walls opposite one another.

According to the invention, a non-tensioned elastic element is attached to the connecting tabs
of the blank, which are attached to the front wall so as to hinge. The elastic element, which
may be in the shape of a band for example, may for example be attached as early as during
production of the blank or subsequently attached to the blank in a processing step prior to
filling. The blank may in this manner be equipped particularly variably by attaching the elastic
element to a feed system. When the elastic element is attached to the flat blank while in the
non-tensioned state, the blank and the elastic element can be transported and stored just as a
conventional blank without an elastic element. Due to the fact that the elastic element is
attached to the blank in its non-tensioned state, there are no forces caused by the elastic
element and acting on the blank during transport or storage, i.e. before erecting of the blank
to form packaging, that could lead to undesirable deformation or even damage to the blank.
Furthermore, creepage of the elastic element or detaching of the connection between the
elastic element and the blank is prevented to the greatest extent possible.
According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the elastic element is a band made of a
reversible elastic material and covering the front wall, at least in areas. Suitable materials include,
among other things, rubber or latex.
To facilitate the removal of products from the packaging produced from the blank, a removal
opening that covers the elastic element, preferably at least in areas, can be formed in the front
wall and/or in the base. The removal opening can be completely or partially closed by a tear
open and tear-off tab.
Handling of the packaging to be produced from the blank can be facilitated in that the elastic
element can be locked in a tensioned state. According to a preferred embodiment of the
invention, to this end, a retention tab is attached to the back wall on the edge facing away
from the base. In this case, it is preferable when the width of the retention tab defined by the
free edges or the crease lines or bend lines is less than the width of the base in the area
between the side walls opposite one another. In this manner, it is possible to fold up the
retention tab onto the back wall even if a tool is holding the elastic element against the back
wall and optionally the side walls in a tensioned state. When the width of the retention tab is
only slightly less than the width of the base between the side walls, the elastic element
extends practically parallel to the side walls, which is preferable when filling products.
To keep the elastic element from being damaged while in the tensioned state by the cutting
edges of the retention tab, there are fold-up tabs attached, so as to hinge, to the retention tab
at opposite edges. They can be folded up onto the retention tab before the elastic element is
tensioned and optionally connected to it so that the edges of the retention tab facing the side
walls are smooth and rounded off.

The retention tab can be held in its position tensioning the elastic element in a particularly
simple manner when a locking tab, which is attached to the base on one side so as to hinge,
is formed in the base of the blank by means of notches or cutouts. Said locking tab is
preferably offset from the edge of the base, to which the back wall is attached so as to hinge,
with its free edge facing toward the back wall. Preferably, this free edge of the locking tab is
offset by at least one, or particularly at least two, material thicknesses. When the locking tab
is swiveled out of the plane of the base slightly after tensioning of the elastic element and
attaching of the elastic element by means of the retention tab, the retention tab is pressed up
against the free edge of the locking tab by the elastic element and fixed in its folded-up
position on the back wall.
In order to prevent the retention tab and/or the locking tab from being unintentionally swiveled
due to the force of the elastic element into a position in which the elastic element can lose its
tension, latching means can be provided on the retention tab and/or on the locking tab. This can
be done, for example, by means of latching protrusions on the locking tab and corresponding
recesses on the retention tab.
Disclosed herein is also a packaging, which is automatically unfolded from a flat transport state of a
blank of the aforementioned type into an erected usage state. In doing so, the elastic element is
attached between the connecting tabs, which are attached to the front wall so as to hinge, and the
side walls. In other words, the elastic element extends in sections parallel to the side walls when the
packaging is erected in that the connecting tabs, on which the ends of the elastic element are
preferably attached, are folded up onto the side walls. It is especially preferable when the two free
ends of the elastic element in this case are clamped between the connecting tabs and the side walls
and glued together with the connecting tabs and the side walls. The middle section of the elastic
element, which is not permanently attached to connecting tabs or the side walls, extends parallel to
the front wall of the packaging when the elastic element is in the non-tensioned state. Once the
elastic element is tensioned, this middle section of the element, which is not permanently connected
to the packaging, extends preferably parallel to the side walls on the inside of the packaging up to
the back wall and is affixed parallel to said back wall on the inside by the retention tab and/or the
locking tab.
The packaging can additionally have a cover that is used to close off the area opposite the base
after the packaging is filled. To this end, the cover can have a top surface opposite the base and
surrounding walls, which are attached thereto so as to hinge and which cover the side walls, the
back wall, and/or the front wall, at least in areas. Additionally, a tear-open tab can be provided in the
top surface defined by a weakened line.

Disclosed herein is also a process for producing packaging as well as packaging produced
therefrom, wherein the process has the following steps: Provision of a blank made of a foldable
material having a base and two side walls attached thereto so as to hinge, a back wall, and a front
wall; subsequent attachment of a non-tensioned, elastic element to the front wall or to the
connecting tabs connected to the front wall so as to hinge; subsequent erection of the side walls,
the back wall, and the front wall from a flat transport state into an unfolded usage state; and
connection of the side walls to the back wall and the front wall; and subsequent tensioning of the
elastic element. The production of packaging in this sequence has the advantage that the blank
can be transported and stored in a flat transport state so as to save space. The elastic element
can be applied variably either directly after production of the blank or briefly before erection of the
packaging from the blank. In other words, the blank can be transported and stored with or without
the elastic element. Furthermore, this also makes it possible to variably and individually set up an
elastic element and thus a feed system for the packaging. When the tensioning of the elastic
element does not take place until after the erecting and connecting of the walls, the packaging will
already have sufficient stability to help prevent damage during tensioning caused by the elastic
element.
In the last step of the process, the elastic element is preferably tensioned such that it extends
at least approximately parallel to the side walls and the back wall on the inside of the
packaging. This facilitates filling of the erected packaging.
Preferably, the elastic element is held in its tensioned state after tensioning. This makes it
possible to intermediately store the packaging that is ready for filling and/or to transport it to a
filling station.
The locking of the elastic element can take place, for example, in that a retention tab is
attached to the edge facing the base on the back wall so as to hinge, wherein the elastic
element is locked in its tensioned state in that it is fixed between the back wall and the
retention tab folded up onto the back wall after tensioning of the elastic element. In doing so, it
is preferable if a locking tab is formed, which is attached to the base on one side so as to
hinge, in the base by means of notches or cutouts. In this case, the retention tab is locked in
its folded-up position on the back wall in that the locking tab is swiveled from the plane of the
base. The risk of damaging the elastic element can be minimized by attaching fold-up tabs so
as to hinge at opposite edges on the retention tab and folding them up onto and connecting
them to the retention tab before tensioning of the elastic element, or particularly before
erecting the packaging.
Disclosed herein is also a system for producing packaging made of a flat blank having a base
and two side walls attached thereto so as to hinge, a back wall, and a front wall, as well as

two connecting tabs attached to the front wall and two to the back wall so as to hinge for
connecting the side walls to the front wall and the back wall. According to the invention, this
system has at least one first station for erecting and connecting the side walls, the back wall
and the front wall as well as a second station downstream of the first station for tensioning an
elastic element attached to the blank with two ends. The arrangement of the stations behind
one another means that the elastic element is not tensioned until the packaging is completely
erected and the walls of the packaging are connected to one another. This minimizes the risk
of damage to the packaging through the tensile force of the elastic element and during
tensioning of the elastic element.
The first station for erecting the walls can, for example, have a punch, the contour of which is
adapted to the base. The punch may additionally have, for example, suction elements such
that a blank may be attached to the punch.
The punch may then, along with the blank, be routed through a suitably designed die such that
hereby the walls can be swiveled by about 900 relatively with respect to the base. Alternatively, it is
also possible for the walls to swivel individually by means of corresponding manipulators relatively
with respect to the base.
An additional station for attaching the two ends of a non-tensioned strip-shaped, elastic element to
the flat blank can be placed upstream of the first station in which the walls are erected and
connected to one another. This additional station placed upstream of the first station does not
necessarily have to be physically close to the first station. Instead, this upstream additional station
may be at the location of the production of the blank so that the blank is placed at the first station
with the elastic element already attached.
The second station, in which the elastic element is tensioned, preferably has at least two
manipulators which are movable relative to the packaging erected in the first station. These
manipulators are preferably each set up to grasp the elastic element at a distance from its ends
attached to the blank and move it along a track, which has a directional component parallel to the
side walls and a directional component parallel to the back wall. For example, each manipulator
may have a sheet, which is driven so as to move in a link, for example a link designed in the
shape of an S. The term sheet here means a flat element, which may consist of metal or another
stiff or flexible material. The grasping of the elastic element by the manipulators in this case not
only includes, for example, tong-like grasping of the elastic element from two sides but also the
case of a manipulator only coming into contact with the elastic element on one side and moving it.
The movement of the elastic element in the two directional components may be a straight-line
movement, for example, from a middle section of the front wall into the two corners between the
back wall and the side walls. As an alternative to this, the movement may proceed along a bent

and/or curved track. In doing so, it is especially preferable when the manipulators are set up such
that the elastic element is grasped at two areas located off-center on the front wall and pushed
[into] the corners between the back wall and the side walls. The point of contact of the
manipulators on the elastic element should preferably be dimensioned such that the expansion of
the elastic element takes place evenly without a relative movement between the elastic element
and the manipulators being necessary. This can take place such that the distance between the
manipulators at the start of the tensioning process corresponds to the distance between the
manipulators in the evenly tensioned state.
It is especially preferable when the second station has a first device for folding up a retention tab
of the blank onto the back wall and the tensioned elastic element as well as a second device for
swiveling a locking tab of the blank relatively with respect to the base and the back wall. As an
alternative to this, the first device and/or the second device can also be provided in an additional
station downstream from the second station.
Downstream of the second station may be a filling station for filling the erected packaging with
products. In doing so, it is preferable when a further device is provided in the filling station for
swiveling a locking tab of the blank relatively with respect to the base, which device then releases
the locking mechanism between the retention tab and the locking tab. In other words, the elastic
element is released directly after filling of the packaging such that it initially pushes the products in
the direction of the front wall via the retention tab and, after removal of a few products, slides from
the retention tab, which is then swiveling in the direction of the front wall, and acts directly on the
products. It is especially preferable when the swiveling of the locking tab for release of the
retention tab takes place by means of the products themselves. The additional device for
swiveling of the locking tab may thus be the device that places the products into the packaging.
The invention is explained in greater detail in the following by means of exemplary embodiments
and with reference to the drawings. The following is shown schematically:
Figure 1         shows a blank according to a first embodiment of the invention;
Figure 2         shows packaging erected from the blank according to Figure 1 with the non
                 tensioned elastic element;
Figure 3         shows the packaging according to Figure 2 with a tensioned elastic element;
Figure 4         shows the packaging according to Figure 2 with a tensioned and locked elastic
                 element;
Figure 5         shows a side view of a station for tensioning the elastic element;
Figure 6         shows a front view of the station according to Figure 5;
Figure 7         shows a top view of the station according to Figure 5;
Figure 8         shows a perspective view of the station according to Figure 5;

Figure 9        shows a blank according to a second embodiment of the invention;
Figure 10       shows packaging erected from a blank according to Figure 9; and
Figure 11       shows a blank according to a third embodiment of the invention.
Figure 1 shows a blank 1 in its flat transport state. The blank 1 is equipped with multiple
crease lines or bend lines 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f, 2g, through which a base 3, side walls 4, a
front wall 5, a back wall 6, connecting tabs 7 and 8, a retention tab 9, and fold-up tabs 10 are
defined.
As shown in Figure 1, the base 3 is designed as a rectangle in the embodiment shown in that the
crease lines or bend lines 2a, 2b, 2c defining the base 3 extend vertically with respect to one
another. The right and left side of the base 3 in Figure 1 are the side walls 4, which are essentially
designed as a rectangle and attached so as to swivel. The side walls 4 are thus connected to form
a single piece with the base 3. The front wall 5 is attached to the bottom side of the base 3 in
 Figure 1 so as to hinge, the side edges of the front wall are likewise defined by crease lines or
bend lines 2d, via which the connecting tabs 7 are attached to the front wall 5 so as to hinge. In
addition, the front wall 5 with the connecting tabs 7 is thus connected to the base 3 as a single
piece. The back wall 6 is connected to the upper side of the base 3 in Figure 1 via a crease line or
bend line. The lateral edges of the back wall 6 are in turn defined by crease lines or bend lines 2e,
by means of which the connecting tabs 8 are connected to the back wall 6 so as to hinge. The
retention tab 9 is connected to the upper side of the back wall 6 in Figure 1 so as to hinge via a
double crease line or bend line 2f and also to the fold-up tabs 10 via lateral crease lines or bend
lines 2g. Thus, the back wall 6, the connecting tabs 8, the retention tab 9, and the fold-up tab 10
are likewise connected to the base 3 as a single piece.
The crease or bend lines 2d, 2e connect the connecting tabs 7 and 8 to the front wall 5 and the
back wall 6 respectively in the embodiment shown as compared to the crease or bend lines 2a,
which connect the base 3 to the side walls 4 in order to have an arrangement offset outward in
 Figure 1 by about one material thickness. The effect of this is that when erecting the blank 1 into
packaging, the connecting tabs 7 can be attached to the exterior of the side walls 4 without the
packaging becoming deformed.
A locking tab 11 is formed in the base 3 in the embodiment shown in that a slot 12 is provided
in the area of the crease or bend line 2c, which connects the base 3 to the back wall 6, and to
this end notches 13 extending at essentially a right angle are formed in the base 3. The
locking tab 11 is connected to the base 3 so as to swivel by means of a further crease line or
bend line 2h.

A removal opening 14, which extends up to and over the crease or bend line 2b connecting the
base 3 to the front wall and slightly into the area of the base 3, is provided in the front wall 5 in
the embodiment shown. The removal opening 14 is provided in the middle of the front wall 5 in
the embodiment shown so that bars extend on both sides of the removal opening 14 in the front
wall 5.
The blank 1 according to the invention is provided with an elastic element 15, which is a strip
or a band made of latex in the embodiment shown. The elastic band 15 essentially has the
width of the front wall 5, including the connecting tabs 7, so that the elastic band 15 can be
placed onto the connecting tabs 7 and the front wall 5, wherein the free ends of the elastic
band 5 can come to rest in the vicinity of the free lateral edges of the connecting tabs 7. The
elastic band 15 in the embodiment shown is glued to the two connecting tabs 7 such that a
middle section of the elastic band 15, which covers the front wall and the removal opening 14
in areas, is only attached to the two ends and loosely rests against the blank 1.
The setting up of packaging according to the invention from the blank according to Figure 1 is
explained in more detail in the following. To this end, initially the side walls 4 as well as the front
wall 5 and the back wall 6 are swiveled by approximately 900 relatively with respect to the base 3.
Subsequently, the connecting tabs 7 and 8 are likewise swiveled by about 900 and attached from
the exterior to the erected side walls 4. This can suitably be done through gluing. Alternatively,
this can take place, for example, using clamps. In this manner, the lateral ends of the elastic band
 15 are clamped between the connecting tab 7 and the exterior of the side walls 4 and connected
both to the respective connecting tab 7 and to the respective side wall 4. The elastic band 15 thus
extends, area-by-area, along the erected side walls 4 and on the interior parallel to the front wall
5, without however being permanently connected to it. This state is shown in Figure 2.
The elastic band 15 can then be tensioned. In doing so, it has proven to be an advantage for
the packaging to be completely set up and the side walls to be connected to the front wall 5
and the back wall 6, so that the packaging has sufficient stability. As explained in more detail
below, the elastic band is tensioned such that it extends somewhat parallel to the side walls
and parallel to the back wall 6 on the inside, as shown in Figure 3. In this state, the retention
tab 9 can be swiveled toward the inside by 1800 so that it clamps the elastic band 15 between
it and the back wall 6. The fold-up tabs 10 have previously been folded up onto the retention
tab 9, so that the fold-up tabs 10 rest against the elastic band 15.
In this position, the retention tab 9 can be locked against the tension of the elastic band 15 in
that the locking tab 11 is swiveled slightly out of the plane of the base 3 upward. This causes
the free edge of the locking tab 11 facing the back wall 6 to push against the bottom side of
the retention tab 9 in Figure 4 at approximately a right angle, thus preventing the retention tab

9 from being swiveled toward the front or back up again in Figure 4 due to the restoring force
of the elastic band 15.
The packaging can be filled when in the state shown in Figure 4. Due to the filling of the
packaging, the products exert pressure on the locking tab 11 such that it is pushed back into
its starting position in which it extends in a plane with the base 3. The filling process thus
releases the locking of the retention tab 9 by the locking tab 11. The elastic band 15 thus
presses the products placed in the packaging in the direction of the front wall and the removal
opening 14 via the retention tab 9.
If individual products are then removed from the packaging via the removal opening or
upward, the elastic band 15 initially pushes the products still remaining in the packaging
further in the direction of the front wall 5 by means of the retention tab 9. Once a few products
have been removed from the packaging, the retention tab 9 is swiveled by the restoring force
of the elastic band 15 to the extent that it extends, for example, somewhat parallel with
respect to the base 3. Briefly before reaching this state, the elastic band 15 slides from the
retention tab 9 and exerts a tensile force directly onto the products still remaining in the
packaging, in the direction of the front wall 5. The elastic band 15 thus surrounds the products
remaining in the packaging laterally and from the back side. This prevents the products, for
example panel-like products, from falling over in the packaging and thereby from being more
difficult to recognize or remove through the removal opening 14 by a consumer.
Figures 2 to 4 show the packaging erected from the blank 1 in the form of a tray (chute) that is
open at the top. After filling, the tray can be closed by a cover that has a top surface opposite
the base 3 and surrounding walls attached thereto so as to hinge. The surrounding walls may,
for example, rest against the side walls 4 and the back wall 6 on the outside. An additional
surrounding wall may be inserted in the packaging such that it rests against the front wall and
thus closes off the removal opening 14. Alternatively, it is also possible to arrange this
additional surrounding wall on the outside on the front wall. Preferably, at least one area of
the top surface and/or the surrounding wall of the cover allocated to the front wall is designed
to be tear-open or tear-off, so that the packaging equipped with the cover can be easily
opened.
The process of tensioning the elastic band 15 and locking the elastic band 15 by means of the
retention tab 9 and the locking tab 11 is explained in more detail in the following with reference to
Figures 5 to 8. These figures show a station, in which the packaging is placed, erected as shown
in Figure 2, and transitioned to the state according to Figure 4.

To this end, station 20 has a receptacle for the packaging, which is formed by a base 21, side
walls 22, and a back wall 23. The receptacle is thus open on the right side in Figure 5 such
that the packaging can be placed into the receptacle. In the embodiment shown, four
openings are provided in the base 21, through which suction elements 24 can retain the base
3 of the packaging within the receptacle.
A plate 25 is arranged above the receptacle, in which two link guides 26 are provided. In the
embodiment shown, the link guides 26 are formed as a somewhat S-shaped opening or groove,
in each of which a sheet 27 is routed in a movable manner. The sheets 27 can be moved from the
right position, indicated by the dashed line in Figure 5, into the left position, indicated by the
continuous lines, by means of a drive, which is not shown in further detail. The two positions of the
sheets 27 are also shown in Figure 7 by two dashed and two continuous circles, respectively, in
the different positions of the sheets.
The link guides 26 in the plate 25 are designed such that the sheets 27 can be moved into the
packaging through the removal opening 14 in the front wall 5. In doing so, the elastic band 15
comes into contact with the left edge of the respective sheets 27 in Figure 5. The sheets 27 are
thus used as manipulators that push the elastic band into the corners of the side walls 4 with the
back wall 6 in that the sheets 27 are moved to the left along the link guide 26 in Figure 5. In this
manner, the elastic band 15 is tensioned. The sheets 27 are preferably designed to be
comparatively thin, so that the sheets 27 are resting as flush as possible against the interior of the
side walls 4 when in the left position as shown in Figure 5, without preventing the folding over of
the retention tab 9.
To this end, a bracket 28 is provided in the station 20, the width of which corresponds
approximately to that of the retention tab 9, as shown in Figure 8. The bracket 28 can be
swiveled clockwise out of its position as shown in Figure 5 by means of a drive, which is not
shown in more detail, such that the longer vertical arm of the bracket 28 as shown in Figure 5
makes contact with the retention tab 9 and fold it up onto the back wall 6. In other words, the
bracket 28 takes the retention tab 9 from the position shown in Figure 3 into the position
shown in Figure 4 during operation.
Furthermore, the station 20 is provided with a cylinder unit 29, the ram of which can act upon
the locking tab 11 of the packaging by means of an additional opening of the base 21. After
the folding over of the retention tab 9, the cylinder unit 29 is actuated and thereby swivels the
locking tab 11 out of its position in the plane of the base 3 slightly into the interior of the
packaging such that the free edge of the locking tab 11 makes contact with the bottom side of
the retention tab 9. As an alternative to the free edge, a toothed edge can be provided as
shown in Figures 9 to 11. This prevents the retention tab 9 from swiveling back due to the

force of the elastic band 15 when the bracket 28 moves back into its starting position as
shown in Figure 5 and the sheets 27 are moved back into the right position in Figure 5. The
packaging is thus in a state in which the packaging can be filled, as shown in Figure 4.
Deviating from the embodiment previously described of the blank 1 and the station 20, it is also
possible as an alternative to omit the retention tab 9, the fold-up tabs 10, and/or the locking tab
 11. In this case, the elastic band 15 is tensioned by the sheets 27 as described previously, and
the packaging must then be filled as long as the sheets 27 hold tension on the elastic band 15.
Thus, the elastic band 15 acts directly on the products after filling, as soon as the sheets 27 are
no longer engaging with the band 15.
Station 20 can have an additional station, which is not shown, placed upstream of it, in which
the packaging from the blank 1 is erected and glued. This upstream station can be designed,
for    example,   as   described   in  the   yet  unpublished    international  patent  application
PCT/GB2013/051755.
The elastic band 15 can be attached to the blank 1 in a device upstream of the station 20.
This can take place, for example, in that elastic band material is unwound from a roll, the
width of which corresponds approximately to the distance between the free lateral ends of the
connecting tabs 7, and placed on an underlay. This underlay is preferably connected to a
suction device such that the unwound material is tightly held onto the underlay. The unwound
material on this underlay can then be cut into strips at a height that is suitable for the feeding
of the products in the packaging. This cut strip can then be routed to the blank 1 and glued to
it at the connecting tabs 7.
A second embodiment is shown in Figures 9 and 10, which has essentially the same
construction as the first embodiment. However, cutouts 30a are provided on the upper side of
the retention tab 9 in Figure 9. Corresponding cutouts 30b are also provided on the free edge of
the locking tab 6 facing the back wall 6. As Figure 10 shows, in which the elastic band 15 has
been omitted for reasons of clarity, these cutouts 30a, 30b have the effect of a toothed edge,
which, when the locking tab 11 is in the set-up state, prevents it from being pushed out of the
position locking the retention tab 9 due to the force of the elastic band 15. In other words, the
locking tab 11 and the retention tab 9 latch together in order to secure the elastic element 15 by
means of the retention tab 9.
A modification of this embodiment is shown in Figure 11. In this case, initially the crease line or
bend line 2h, by means of which the locking tab 11 is connected to the base 3, is designed so
as to bend. This increases the restoring force. In addition, the notches 13 are designed to
extend at an incline. Regardless of this, the back wall 6 is designed in a shortened manner in

comparison to the other embodiments. Correspondingly, the height of the fold-up tabs 10 is
shorter. In order to prevent a sharp edge with the connecting tab 8, the double crease or bend
line 2f thus does not extend over the entire width of the back wall 6, and tilted notches extend
from the ends of the double crease or bend line 2f to the respective corners of the connecting
tabs 8.
Reference list
 1        Blank
2 a-h     Crease or bend line
3         Base
4         Side wall
5         Front wall
6         Back wall
7         Connecting tab
8         Connecting tab
9         Retention tab
 10       Fold-up tab
 11       Locking tab
 12       Slot
 13       Notch
 14       Removal opening
 15       Elastic element (band)
20        Station
21        Base
22        Side wall
23        Back wall
24        Suction element
25        Plate
26        Link guide
27        Sheet (manipulator)
28        Bracket
29        Cylinder unit
30a,b     Cutout
In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the context
requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the

presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute an
admission that such prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia
or any other country.

Claims:
 1.     A blank made of a foldable material for producing machine-erectable packaging, the
blank comprising:
        a base and, hinged to it, two side walls, a back wall and a front wall,
        two connecting tabs hinged to the front wall and two connecting tabs hinged to the back
wall for connecting the side walls to the front wall and the back wall,
        an unstressed elastic element attached to the connecting tabs which are hinged to the
front wall, and
        wherein the unstressed elastic element comprises an elastic band having free ends
facing away from each other with the elastic band being placed unstressed onto the two
connecting flaps of the front panel and the front panel as a strip in a flat transport condition of
the blank.
2.      The blank according to claim 1 wherein the material of the blank is corrugated
cardboard, paperboard, or cardboard.
3.      The blank according to claim 1 or claim 2, further including a retention tab that is hinged
to the back wall at the edge facing away from the base, the width of said retention tab is defined
by free edges or crease lines or bending lines and is less than the width of the base between
the side walls opposite to each other.
4.      The blank according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the elastic band is made of a
reversible elastic material.
5.      The blank according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the elastic band is made of
rubber or latex.
6.      The blank according to any one of claim 1 to 5, wherein a removal opening is formed in
the front wall and wherein the elastic element covers at least in part the removal opening.
7.      The blank according to claim 3, wherein fold-up tabs are hinged to the retention tab at
opposite edges.
8.      The blank according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a locking tab, formed in
the base by notches or cutouts, is hinged to one side of the base.
9.      The blank according to claim 8, wherein a free edge of the locking tab is offset by at
least one material thicknesses from the edge of the base at which the back wall is hinged.

 10.    The blank according to claim 8, wherein a free edge of the locking tab is offset by at
least two material thicknesses from the edge of the base at which the back wall is hinged to.
 11.    The blank according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein latching means are provided on the
retention tab and/or the locking tab in order to prevent the retention tab and/or the locking tab
from being unintentionally swiveled due to the force of the elastic element into a position in
which the elastic element can lose its tension.

                                                 1/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              7839941_1 (GHMatters) P102992.AU

                                                 2/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              7839941_1 (GHMatters) P102992.AU

                                                 3/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              7839941_1 (GHMatters) P102992.AU

