                                       ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to the field of steel-plastic composite pipes, in particular to
a steel-plastic composite pipe with an internal fixing ring, comprising a frame member,
and three internal fixing members circumferentially spaced along an inner wall of the
steel-plastic composite pipe; all the internal fixing members having the same structure,
the internal fixing member comprising a U-shaped block, and a curved plate, an elastic
layer and an adhesive layer which are disposed on one side of an opening of the
U-shaped block, and the other side of the opening of the U-shaped block being used to
be tightly attached to an outer wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe; the curved plate,
the elastic layer and the adhesive layer being stacked in order along a spacing direction
in the opening of the U-shaped block; each of the U-shaped blocks in all the internal
fixing members being provided with one bump at a bottom; and the frame member
comprising a cylindrical block and three supporting bars, one end of each supporting bar
being connected with one bump, and the other end thereof being connected with the
cylinder block. The present invention can effectively ensure that the steel-plastic
composite pipe and a plastic lined pipe will not be affected by an external vibration force
during the daily use, and can also prevent such a problem that their internal water flow
force causes damage to the connection structure of the two pipes.

   3/3
5
         4e
  Fig. 4
            4c 4d
  Fig. 5

   STEEL-PLASTIC COMPOSITE PIPE WITH INTERNAL FIXING
                                              RING
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
 5 [0001]         The present invention relates to the field of steel-plastic composite pipes,
   in particular to a steel-plastic composite pipe with an internal fixing ring.
                                         BACKGROUND
   [0002]         A steel-plastic composite pipe is a product with a seamless steel pipe or a
 0 welded steel pipe as its base pipe, and having a plastic lined pipe embedded in its inner
   wall with the purpose of high adhesion and corrosion resistance. The plastic lined pipe at
   an interface of the steel-plastic composite pipe often appears degumming or the plastic
   lined pipe is damaged due to an improper operation in the construction process, causing
   the plastic lined pipe to detach, which will accelerate the corrosion of the steel pipe,
 5 reduce the service life of the product, and affect the quality of water. Some plastic lined
   pipes are subject to high-speed flow forces of the internal water flow for a long time,
   which will also cause damage to the connection structure over time, and thereby cause
   them to detach.
 0                                         SUMMARY
   [0003]         In view of the deficiencies of the prior art, an objective of the present
   invention is to provide a steel-plastic composite pipe with an inner fixing ring.
   [0004]         To solve the above problem, the present invention provides the following
   technical solutions.
 5 [0005]           A steel-plastic composite pipe with an internal fixing ring comprises a
   frame member, and three internal fixing members circumferentially spaced along an
   inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe; all the internal fixing members having the
   same structure, and an angle between every two internal fixing members being 120
   degrees; the internal fixing member comprising a U-shaped block, and a curved plate, an
30 elastic layer and an adhesive layer which are disposed on one side of an opening of the
   U-shaped block, and the other side of the opening of the U-shaped block being used to
   be tightly attached to an outer wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe; the curved plate,
   the elastic layer and the adhesive layer being stacked in order along a spacing direction
   in the opening of the U-shaped block; each of the U-shaped blocks in all the internal
35 fixing members being provided with one bump at a bottom; the frame member
   comprising a cylindrical block and three supporting bars, one end of each supporting bar
   being connected with one bump, and the other end thereof being connected with the
   cylinder block.
   [0006]         Further, all end sections of said supporting bars are prismatic structures;
40 and the axis of the cylindrical block coincides with that of the steel-plastic composite
   pipe when the frame member is in the inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe.
   [00071         Further, said frame member further comprises three stabilizing bars; all

   the stabilizing bars are distributed on an outer side of all the supporting bars in an
   isosceles triangle, and each of both ends of all the stabilizing bars is fixedly connected
   with one bump, and the centers of all the bumps are three vertices of the isosceles
   triangle, respectively.
 5 [00081         Further, the end sections of said stabilizing bars are prismatic structures.
   [0009]         Further, a concave surface of said curved plate is fixedly connected with
   the inner wall of the opening of the U-shaped block, and the elastic layer comprises a
   rubber pad attached to the outer wall of the curved plate, the adhesive layer fixedly
   disposed on an outer surface of the rubber pad.
 0 [0010]         Further, an end of said curved plate away from the U-shaped plate is
   provided with an intervention plate extending outwardly; the intervention plate is of a
   plastic material, and its structure is a semi-arc shape; and a sealing layer is attached at an
   outer surface of the arc top of the intervention plate.
   [0011]         Beneficial effects of the present invention are as follows. In the
 5 steel-plastic composite pipe with the internal fixing ring of the present invention, after
   the frame member and all the internal fixing members are manually placed into the
   steel-plastic composite pipe (i.e. the inner wall of the plastic lined pipe), the intervention
   plate preferentially enters (i.e. is inserted from a nozzle of the steel-plastic composite
   pipe), causing deformation due to the plasticity of itself. Then, the adhesive layer enters,
 0 and the space is partially shrunk through the rubber layer (meanwhile, the rubber layer
   also serves as a surface for protecting the structure below the adhesive layer and
   prevents the structure from being damaged by the water flow, that is, forms a lower right
   protection in connection with a sealing layer, and the other side is protected by a bottom
   of an open groove of the U-shaped block). Next, the spacing of the opening of the
 5 U-shaped block is greater than the sum of the inner wall thickness of the steel-plastic
   composite pipe and that of the plastic lined pipe, and one side of the opening of the
   U-shaped block is tightly attached to the outer wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe,
   and the other side is tightly attached to the inner wall of the plastic lined pipe by the
   adhesive layer, the intervention plate with plasticity and the sealing layer. Then, in daily
 0 use, the supporting bars and the stabilizing bars are successively matched, and a triangle
   support is used to ensure the stability, preventing the flow force of the water from
   impacting the stability of the connection between the steel-plastic composite pipe and
   the plastic lined pipe. Moreover, both the supporting bar and the stabilizing bar are of a
   plastic material, facilitating the installation process, and the end of the steel-plastic
35 composite pipe is provided with a buckle of a tubular structure, which is used to enclose
   and lock a part of the U-shaped block exposed to the outer wall of the steel-plastic
   composite pipe by being pressed downwards. The present invention can effectively
   ensure that the steel-plastic composite pipe and the plastic lined pipe will not be affected
   by an external vibration force during daily use, and can also prevent such a problem that
40 their internal water flow force causes damage to the connection structure of the two
   pipes.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0012]         FIG. 1 is a schematic perspective view of the present invention;
45 [0013]         FIG. 2 is a side view of the present invention;
                                                    2

   [00141          FIG. 3 is a schematic view of a assembly structure of the present
   invention;
   [0015]          FIG. 4 is an enlarged view of A in FIG. 3;
   [00161          FIG. 5 is a schematic perspective view of a part of the present invention;
 5 [00171          Description of reference numerals: plastic lined pipe 1, steel-plastic
   composite pipe 2, frame member 3, cylindrical block 3a, supporting bar 3b, stabilizing
   bar 3c, internal fixing member 4, U-shaped block 4a, bump 4b, curved plate 4c, elastic
   layer 4d, adhesive layer 4e, intervention plate 5, sealing layer 6, and buckle 7.
 0                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0018]          Specific embodiments of the present invention will be further described in
   detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings and embodiments of the
   specification.
   [0019]          A steel-plastic composite pipe with an internal fixing ring shown with
 5 reference to FIGs. 1 to 5 comprises a frame member 3, and three internal fixing members
   4 circumferentially spaced along an inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2. All
   the internal fixing members 4 have the same structure, and an angle between every two
   internal fixing members 4 is 120 degrees. The internal fixing member 4 comprises a
   U-shaped block 4a, and a curved plate 4c, an elastic layer 4d and an adhesive layer 4e
 0 which are disposed on one side of an opening of the U-shaped block 4a, and the other
   side of the opening of the U-shaped block 4a is used to be tightly attached to an outer
   wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2. The curved plate 4c, the elastic layer 4d and
   the adhesive layer 4e are stacked in order along a spacing direction in the opening of the
   U-shaped block (4a). Each of the U-shaped blocks 4a in all the internal fixing members 4
 5 is provided with one bump 4b at a bottom. The frame member 3 comprises a cylindrical
   block 3a and three supporting bars 3b, one end of each support bar 3b being connected
   with one bump 4b, and the other end thereof being connected with the cylinder block 3a.
   [0020]          All end sections of said supporting bars 3b are prismatic structures; and
   the axis of the cylindrical block 3a coincides with that of the steel-plastic composite pipe
30 2 when the frame member 3 is in the inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2.
   When the supporting bar 3b is in the inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 (i.e.
   the inner wall of the plastic lined pipe 1), the water flow will rapidly pass during normal
   use. At this time, due to the prismatic structure characteristics of the supporting bar 3b, a
   side slope of the supporting bar 3b will reduce the resistance with the water flow, so that
35 the stability of the supporting bar 3b is ensured, and thus the overall stability of the
   frame member 3 and the inner fixing member 4 is ensured.
   [0021]          Said frame member 3 further comprises three stabilizing bars 3c. All the
   stabilizing bars 3c are distributed on an outer side of all the supporting bars 3b in an
   isosceles triangle. Each of both ends of all the stabilizing bars 3c is fixedly connected
40 with one bump 4b, and the centers of all the bumps 4b are three vertices of the isosceles
   triangle, respectively. The three stabilizing bars 3c and two supporting bars 3b in the
   respective positions form a medium opening having a shape of an isosceles triangle,
   facilitating the passage of the water flow, and the water flow can normally pass while the
   stable connection between the plastic lined pipe 1 and the steel-plastic composite pipe 2
45 is ensured.
                                                    3

   [00221         The end sections of said stabilizing bars 3c are prismatic structures. Due to
   the prismatic structure characteristics of the stabilizing bars 3c, a side slope of the
   stabilizing bars 3c will reduce the resistance with the water flow.
   [00231         A concave surface of said curved plate 4c is fixedly connected with the
 5 inner wall of the opening of the U-shaped block 4a, and the elastic layer 4d comprises a
   rubber pad attached to the outer wall of the curved plate 4c, the adhesive layer 4e fixedly
   disposed on an outer surface of the rubber pad. When the internal fixing member 4 is
   placed in the inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 (i.e. the inner wall of the
   plastic lined pipe 1), the adhesive layer 4e will be adhered to the inner wall of the plastic
 0 lined pipe 1, ensuring the stability of the connection between the steel-plastic composite
   pipe 2 and the plastic lined pipe 1.
   [0024]         An end of said curved plate 4c away from the U-shaped plate is provided
   with an intervention plate 5 extending outwardly. The intervention plate 5 is of a plastic
   material, and its structure is a semi-arc shape. A sealing layer is attached at an outer
 5 surface of the arc top of the intervention plate 5. The intervention plate 5 preferentially
   enters the inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 (i.e. the inner wall of the
   plastic lined pipe 1). Then, the plasticity of the intervention plate 5 will cause extrusion
   deformation and shrinkage. Therefore, when the intervention plate 5 completely enters
   the plastic lined pipe 1, the inner wall of the plastic lined pipe 1 is subsequently
 0 contacted by the adhesive layer 4e to make contact and adhesion. The sealing layer 6 is
   used in the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 so that the water flow does not flow into the
   adhesive layer 4e excessively, but is blocked by the sealing layer 6 and passes directly
   among the three internal fixing members 4, without causing an impact on the adhesive
   surface structure of the adhesive layer 4e and affecting its service life.
 5 [0025]         The working principle of the present invention is as follows. After the
   frame member 3 and all the internal fixing members 4 are manually placed into the
   steel-plastic composite pipe 2 (i.e. the inner wall of the plastic lined pipe 1), the
   intervention plate 5 preferentially enters (i.e. is inserted from a nozzle of the steel-plastic
   composite pipe 2), causing deformation due to the plasticity of itself. Then, the adhesive
 0 layer 4e enters, and the space is partially shrunk through the rubber layer (meanwhile,
   the rubber layer also serves as a surface for protecting the structure below the adhesive
   layer 4e and prevents the structure from being damaged by the water flow, that is, forms
   a lower right protection in connection with a sealing layer 6, and the other side is
   protected by a bottom of a open groove of the U-shaped block 4a). Then, the spacing of
35 the opening of the U-shaped block 4a is greater than the sum of the inner wall thickness
   of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 and that of the plastic lined pipe 1, and one side of
   the opening of the U-shaped block 4a is tightly attached to the outer wall of the
   steel-plastic composite pipe 2, and the other side is tightly attached to the inner wall of
   the plastic lined pipe 1 by the adhesive layer 4e, the intervention plate 5 with plasticity
40 and the sealing layer 6. Then, in daily use, the supporting bars 3b and the stabilizing bars
   3c are successively matched, and a triangle support is used to ensure the stability,
   preventing the flow force of the water from impacting the stability of the connection
   between the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 and the plastic lined pipe 1. Moreover, both
   the supporting bar 3b and the stabilizing bar 3c are of a plastic material, facilitating the
45 installation process, and the end of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 is provided with a
   buckle of a tubular structure, which is used to pack and lock a part of the U-shaped block
   4a exposed to the outer wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe 2 by being pressed
   downwards.
                                                    4

  [00261         The above description is merely preferred embodiments of the present
  invention, and does not impose any limitation on the technical scope of the present
  invention. Therefore, any slight modifications, equivalent variations and modifications
  made to the above embodiments according to the technical essence of the present
5 invention all still fall within the scope of the technical solutions of the present invention.
  [00271         It will be understood that the term "comprise" and any of its derivatives (eg
  comprises, comprising) as used in this specification is to be taken to be inclusive of features
  to which it refers, and is not meant to exclude the presence of any additional features unless
  otherwise stated or implied.
0 [00281         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
  taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of
  the common general knowledge.
                                                    5

                                            CLAIMS
1. A steel-plastic composite pipe with an internal fixing ring, comprising a frame
member (3), and three internal fixing members (4) circumferentially spaced along an
inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe (2); all the internal fixing members (4)
having the same structure, and an angle between every two internal fixing members (4)
being 120 degrees; the internal fixing member (4) comprising a U-shaped block (4a), and
a curved plate (4c), an elastic layer (4d) and an adhesive layer (4e) which are disposed
on one side of an opening of the U-shaped block (4a), and the other side of the opening
of the U-shaped block (4a) being used to be tightly attached to an outer wall of the
steel-plastic composite pipe (2); the curved plate (4c), the elastic layer (4d) and the
adhesive layer (4e) being stacked in order along a spacing direction in the opening of the
U-shaped block (4a); each of the U-shaped blocks (4a) in all the internal fixing members
(4) being provided with one bump (4b) at a bottom; and the frame member (3)
comprising a cylindrical block (3a) and three supporting bars (3b), one end of each
supporting bar (3b) being connected with one bump (4b), and the other end thereof being
connected with the cylinder block (3a).
2. The steel-plastic composite pipe according to claim 1, wherein: all end sections of
said supporting bars (3b) are prismatic structures; and the axis of the cylindrical block
(3a) coincides with that of the steel-plastic composite pipe (2) when the frame member
(3) is in the inner wall of the steel-plastic composite pipe (2).
3. The steel-plastic composite pipe according to claim 2, wherein: said frame member (3)
further comprises three stabilizing bars (3c); all the stabilizing bars (3c) are distributed
on an outer side of all the supporting bars (3b) in an isosceles triangle, and each of both
ends of all the stabilizing bars (3c) is fixedly connected with one bump (4b), and the
centers of all the bumps (4b) are three vertices of the isosceles triangle, respectively.
4. The steel-plastic composite pipe according to claim 3, wherein: the end sections of
said stabilizing bars (3c) are prismatic structures.
5. The steel-plastic composite pipe according to claim 1, wherein: a concave surface of
said curved plate (4c) is fixedly connected with the inner wall of the opening of the
U-shaped block (4a), and the elastic layer (4d) comprises a rubber pad attached to the
outer wall of the curved plate (4c), the adhesive layer (4e) fixedly disposed on an outer
surface of the rubber pad, an end of said curved plate (4c) away from the U-shaped plate
is provided with an intervention plate (5) extending outwardly; the intervention plate (5)
is of a plastic material, and its structure is a semi-arc shape; and a sealing layer (6) is
attached at an outer surface of the arc top of the intervention plate (5).
                                                 6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
