                                         ABSTRACT
A method for suppressing an immune response is provided. The method involves
administration of isolated lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC) to a
subject in need of such treatment in an amount effective to suppress the immune response in
the subject. The invention also involves a method to isolate LSSC by digesting lymphoid
tissue fragments using a combination of an enzyme mix and agitation and then collecting the
LSSC. Pharmaceutical preparations comprising LSSC are also provided.

                                                 -1
           ISOLATION AND USE OF HUMAN LYMPHOID ORGAN-DERIVED
                              SUPPRESSIVE STROMAL CELLS
        The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
No. 2013235600, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                                          RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. provisional
application serial No. 61/613,697, filed March 21, 2012, the content of which is incorporated
by reference herein in its entirety.
                                   FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
        This invention was made with Government support under NIH Grant DK074500,
K01DK087770, and A1045757. Accordingly, the Government has certain rights in this
invention.
                                     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Immunosuppressive drugs are used to inhibit or prevent the activity of the immune
system for the treatment of certain diseases. Clinically, they are used to treat or prevent a
number of conditions, for example, to prevent the rejection of transplanted organs and
tissues (e.g. bone marrow, heart, kidney, liver etc.), and in the treatment of inflammatory
diseases or autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis,
and inflammatory bowel disease. Immunosuppressive drugs currently approved for
treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases need to be frequently administered, and carry
significant side effects including risks of renal toxicity and morbidity.
        Although immunosuppressive stromal cell types have been described (e.g.
mesenchymal stromal cells), they are poorly defined, and have failed to meet primary
efficacy endpoints in clinical trials. In addition, isolation of stromal cells remains challenging
due to difficulties in successfully isolating these cells. Due to the severity and breath of
conditions caused by unwanted immune activity, such as autoimmune or inflammatory
diseases, there is a great need for developing effective treatments of such diseases.

                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The invention, relates in some aspects, to the discovery that stromal cells isolated
from lymph nodes can suppress an immune response. The ability of lymph node-derived
stromal cells to suppress an immune response combined with their known ability to
attract immune cells makes them an effective tool to suppress an immune response in a
subject. Accordingly, some aspects of the invention involve a method for suppressing an
immune response by administering to a subject in need of such treatment isolated
lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC) in an amount effective to
suppress the immune response in the subject. In some embodiments, the LSSC that are
administered to the subject are ex vivo expanded cells. In some embodiments, the LSSC
that are administered to the subject are substantially free of non-LSSC. In some
embodiments, at least 0.1 million LSSC/kg are administered to the subject. In some
embodiments, at least 1 million LSSC/kg are administered to the subject.
         The LSSC may be obtained from any one or combination of the following
tissues: lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, adenoids, and Peyer's patches. The LSSC
may be autologous, allogeneic or xenogeneic with respect to the subject.
         In some embodiments, the LSSC are on or in a two or three dimensional
framework implanted into the subject. In some embodiments, the LSSC are
administered to the subject by intravenous, intraperitoneal, intra-arterial, subcutaneous,
or intramuscular injection or by local administration into a lesion, organ, organ capsule,
adiposity, or lymph node.
         The subject in need of treatment refers to a subject that has, for example, an
autoimmune or inflammatory disease. Examples of autoimmune or inflammatory
diseases include, but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis,
inflammatory bowel disease, graft versus host disease, and sepsis.
         According to one aspect of the invention, a method of isolating LSSC is
provided. The method comprises digesting lymphoid tissue fragments using a
combination of an enzyme mix and agitation, and then collecting the LSSC.
         The digestion of the lymphoid tissue fragments may be performed in a series of
steps comprising:
         (i)    incubating the lymphoid tissue fragments with an enzyme mix;
         (ii)   agitating the tissue using a pipette followed by incubation to allow large
fragments to settle;
                                               2

         (iii)   removing the supernatant and repeating steps (i) and (ii) until all
fragments are digested; and
         wherein the LSSC are collected by pooling all supernatant fractions followed by
centrifugation to obtain cell pellets.
         In embodiments, the isolated LSSC are grown in a culture medium comprising a
basal cell culture medium supplemented with one or more of a growth factor, serum, a
platelet lysate, and an antibiotic. In embodiments, the isolated LSSC may be grown at a
density of 1-10,000 cells/cm2. In embodiments, the isolated LSSC are grown at 0.1
21% partial pressure of oxygen. In some embodiments, the LSSC may be grown until
the LSSC are substantially free of non-LSSC. In some embodiments, the LSSC are
grown until the number of stromal cells increases by at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%,
75%, 100%, 200%, or more. In some embodiments, the population containing LSSC is
enriched for LSSC by removing hematopoietic cells or other non-stromal cells, or by
growing the population of cells under conditions that favor stromal cell growth over the
growth of non-stromal cells. Such conditions are described herein.
         In one embodiment, the enzyme mix comprises a culture medium, Dispase,
Collagenase and DNaseI. The LSSC may be derived from lymph nodes, spleen, thymus,
tonsils, adenoids, and/or Peyer's patches. In some embodiments, the LSSC isolated using
the methods described herein may be to use to suppress an immune response in a subject.
         According to one aspect of the invention, a composition comprising isolated
lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC) is provided. The LSSC can be
isolated using the methods described above.
         According to one aspect of the invention, a pharmaceutical preparation
comprising a composition of isolated lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells
(LSSC) is provided. The LSSC may be isolated by treating lymphoid tissue fragments
using one or more of a chemical, mechanical, and electrical cell separation process, and
then by collecting the LSSC.
         In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC are expanded through cell culture. In
some embodiments, the isolated LSSC are ex vivo expanded cells. In some
embodiments, the isolated LSSC are expanded by growing the collected cells until the
LSSC are substantially free of non-LSSC.
         In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC co-express CD140a and PD-L2. In
some embodiments, the isolated LSSC co-express CD140a and LTBR. In some
                                              3

embodiments, the isolated LSSC co-express CD140a , PD-L2 and LTBR. In some
embodiments, the isolated LSSC express at least one other lymphoid marker selected
from the group consisting of PD-Li, Thy-1, MADCAM-1, MYHI1, IL-7R, or ITGA7.
In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC express at least one factor selected from the
group consisting of IL-6, CCL19, CCL21, or VEGF.
         The LSSC may be isolated from a species selected from the group consisting of
human, non-human primate, canine, feline, equine, swine, bovine, and rodent. The
LSSC can suppress T cell proliferation in vivo or in vitro.
         Each of the embodiments and aspects of the invention can be practiced
independently or combined. Also, the phraseology and terminology used herein is for
the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of
"including", "comprising", or "having", "containing", "involving", and variations thereof
herein, is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well
as additional items.
         These and other aspects of the inventions, as well as various advantages and
utilities will be apparent with reference to the Detailed Description. Each aspect of the
invention can encompass various embodiments as will be understood.
         All documents identified in this application are incorporated in their entirety
herein by reference.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         FIG. 1 shows a schematic diagram of pooled murine lymph node stromal cell
digestion and preparation for cell sorting. 1.Add enzyme mix (RPMI-1640 with
0.8mg/ml Dispase, 0.2mg/ml Collagenase P, 0.1mg/ml DNase I) to tissue, incubate in
37C waterbath. 2.After 10-20 mins (see methods), agitate lymph node fragments using
1ml pipette, then incubate until the fragments settle. 3. Remove the supernatant
containing released cells, centrifuge it and store it on ice. 4. Repeat steps 1-3 until all
fragments are fully digested (no more than 60 mins). 5. Pool all supernatant fractions,
centrifuge, filter, and count. 6. Add anti-CD45 microbeads, incubate at 4C on rotating
wheel. 7. Use MACS or AutoMACS to deplete CD45+cells, count. 8. Stain enriched
CD45- stroma with antibodies; sort to high purity using 100um tip at 20psi.
         FIG. 2 shows the validation of a low-mortality method for isolation of lymph
                                               4

node stromal subsets. FIG. 2A shows the viability of single cell suspensions prepared
using a low-mortality enzymatic digestion method. n=6, mean+standard deviation. FIG.
2B shows the typical flow cytometric profiles of lymph node stromal subsets freshly
isolated from skin-draining or mesenteric lymph nodes of individual mice. FIG. 2C
shows lymph node stromal subsets identified in situ on cryosections of murine lymph
node. Top panel: T cell zone FRCs (podoplanin+ CD3 I-) and high endothelial venules
(podoplanin- CD31 with cuboidal morphology). Two examples of HEVs are designated
using arrows. Middle panel designates the medullary LECs (podoplanin*CD3 1) and
large medullary blood vessels (podoplanin-CD31). Medullary lymphatic vessel/s are
shown using arrows. Bottom panel: Capsular afferent LECs (Lyvel* MadCAM*), MRCs
(subcapsular, Lyvel MadCAM*) and FDCs (follicular, Lyveli, MadCAM*).
Colocalization overlay shown in white on merged images. Original magnification: 200x.
FIG. 2D shows human lymph nodes (non-mesenteric origin) digested and stained for
flow cytometric analysis. Dotplots are representative of n=4 independent experiments.
        FIG. 3 demonstrates that lymph nodes show site-specific alterations in stromal
composition. Lymph nodes from individual C57B1/6 mice were digested and stained for
flow cytometry. FIG. 3A shows lymph node cellularity. FIG. 3B shows the proportion of
CD45 negative lymph node stromal subsets. FIG. 3C shows the number of lymph node
stromal subsets. FIG. 3D demonstrates MadCAM* cells shown as a proportion of total
FRCs or LECs. FIG. 3E shows the total number of MadCAM* FRCs or LECs. FIG. 3F
shows the cellularity of skin-draining lymph nodes isolated from age-matched Rag-- or
WT (B6) mice. FIG. 3G shows the number of lymph node stroma from age-matched
Rag-'- or WT mice. FIG. 3G shows the number of lymph node stroma from age-matched
Rag-/- or WT mice. FIG. 3H shows the proportion, or FIG. 31 the number of MadCAM+
FRCs (MRCs) or LECs in SLN of age-matched Rag-/- or WT mice. Plots are
representative of n=5 mice. FIG. 3J shows the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of
MadCAM staining in MRCs or MadCAM+ LECs. WT = wildtype. *P<0.05; **P<0.01
Mann-Whitney U Test. n=5-10 mice from 2-3 independent experiments.
        FIG. 4 shows the lymph node stromal cell enrichment and sorting. In FIG. 4A
skin-draining lymph nodes from 6-10 C57B1/6 mice were enzymatically digested and
enriched for CD45- stromal cells using autoMACS. The number of CD45- stroma added
                                             5

to the column (input) and retrieved from the column (output) were charted. Data depict
n=5 independent experiments. In FIG. 4B the percent stromal cell yield for autoMACS
enrichment of stroma was calculated. FIG. 4C shows the flow cytometric profiles of
stromal cells pre- and post-autoMACS enrichment. FIG. 4 shows the sorting strategy and
post-sort purity for major lymph node stromal cell subsets. Dotplots gated on CD45
propidium iodide- stroma.
         FIG. 5 shows site-specific transcriptional upregulation of cytokines in murine
FRCs from skin-draining lymph nodes. FIG. 5A shows the microarray analysis
comparing FRCs sorted from skin-draining (SLN) or mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN).
Dotplot depicts P-value versus fold-change for SLN versus MLN for 15,486 selected
probes. Probes upregulated in SLN are shown in red, while probes upregulated in MLN
are blue; (P<0.05 and fold change >2; t-test). n=4-5 independent replicates. FIG. 5B
shows the genes enriched in SLNs encoding cytokines and cytokine receptors (KEGG
pathway mmu04O6O; P<0.015; modified Fisher's exact test with Benjamini correction).
The fold-increase in mean expression in SLNs compared to MLNs is shown.
         FIG. 6 shows the three-dimensional (3D) culture of murine FRCs mimics in vivo
function. In FIG. 6A, lymph nodes were digested, and single cell suspensions put into
culture for 5 days, then trypsinized and stained for flow cytometric profiling. Stromal
cells were identified using CD45 (left panel), then stained with CD31 and podoplanin
(right panel, gated on CD45- stroma). In particular, CD45 is a marker for hematopoietic
cells, and is not present on stromal cells. In FIG. 6B cultured stromal cells stained for
FDC-M 1 or a relevant isotype control. FIG. 3C shows CD31 staining in cultured stromal
cells harvested using a high trypsin or low trypsin protocol. Dotplots represent n=3
independent experiments. In FIG. 6D cultured stromal cells were harvested, then
purified using autoMACS. FRCs, LECs, or mixed FRCs and LECs were plated in 2D
(plastic tissue culture plates), or 3D (a matrigel and collagen gel) and cultured for a
further 3 days prior to imaging. Original magnification lOx. Images represent n=2
independent experiments. In FIG. 6E, F-actin and DAPI were used to stain purified
FRCs in 2D or 3D to highlight networks. Images represent n=3 independent experiments.
(F) Purified FRCs were placed in 3D culture in a 96 well plate with or without PP2.
After 24-36 hours, gel contraction was quantified. Images are representative of n=3
                                               6

independent experiments. Bar graph depicts mean + standard deviation, P<0.05, t-test. In
FIG. 6G purified FRCs were placed in 3D cultured with purified dendritic cells (DCs) or
B cells, then images were sequentially acquired every 90 seconds. Upper panel shows
stills from the captured images, original magnification: 20x. Lower panel shows a
cartoon of the imaged stromal cell and the relevant migrating leukocyte. In FIG. 6H
human lymph nodes were digested, and single cell suspensions put into culture for 7
days, then trypsinized and stained for flow cytometric profiling.
         FIG. 7 shows that human lymphoid tissue-derived suppressor cells suppress the
proliferation of activated allogeneic splenocytes. Unfractionated LSSCs were cultured
with freshly isolated human splenocytes from an unrelated donor. Splenocytes were
labeled with CFSE, a fluorescent dye that is diluted when a cell divides. T cells within
the splenocyte population were activated using PHA and IL-2. Histograms depict T
cells, identified through expression of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the
proportion of splenocytes to stroma.
         FIG. 8 shows that human LSSCs suppress the proliferation of activated,
xenogeneic T cells. Unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly isolated mouse
splenocytes. Splenocytes were labeled with CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides.
T cells were then activated using anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. Histograms depict
T cells, identified through expression of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the
proportion of splenocytes to stroma.
         FIG. 9 shows that LSSCs suppress T cell proliferation via novel mechanisms. In
FIG. 9A unfractionated human LSSC were cultured with freshly isolated splenocytes
derived from wildtype or IFNy-/- mice. Splenocytes were labeled with CFSE, which is
diluted when a cell divides. T cells were then activated using anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies. Histograms depict T cells, identified through expression of the T cell antigen
receptor. Ratios indicate the proportion of splenocytes to stroma. In FIG. 9B PDPN*,
PDPN-, and unfractionated LSSCs were cultured with freshly isolated, purified human
blood-derived T cells from an unrelated donor. T cells were labeled with CFSE, which is
diluted when a cell divides. T cells were activated using PHA and IL-2. Histograms
depict T cells, identified through expression of the T cell antigen receptor. Supernatant
                                              7

was collected and tested for the presence of nitrite, a conversion product of nitric oxide.
        FIG. 10 shows that two major subpopulations of human lymphoid tissue-derived
suppressor cells each suppress the proliferation of activated allogeneic T cells. In FIG.
10A, two subpopulations of LSSCs were purified based on expression or lack of
glycoprotein-36 (also known as PDPN). Both subpopulations were non-endothelial
(CD31 negative) and non-hematopoietic (CD45 negative). In FIG. 10B, PDPN* LSSC
PDPN- LSSC, or unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly isolated, purified
human blood-derived T cells from an unrelated donor at a 1:5 ratio (LSSCs to T cells). T
cells were labeled with CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides. T cells were
activated using PHA and IL-2. Histograms depict T cells, identified through expression
of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the proportion of splenocytes to stroma.
        FIG. 11 shows that human LSSCs halt the division of pre-activated allogeneic T
cells. PDPN+ LSSC, PDPN- LSSC, or unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly
isolated, purified human blood-derived T cells from an unrelated donor. T cells were
labeled with CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides. T cells were activated using
PHA and IL-2, left to divide for 2 days, and then some T cells were replated onto LSSCs
and restimulated, or replated and restimulated without LSSCs, or replated without
restimulation. Histograms depict T cells, identified through expression of the T cell
antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the proportion of LSSCs to T cells.
        FIG. 12 shows that human LSSCs significantly reduce early lethality in mice with
severe graft-versus-host disease. Recipient mice received an allogenic bone marrow
transplant (split-dose lethal irradiation followed by i.v. injection of whole bone marrow).
Severe GVHD was induced at the time of transplant by co-injecting donor derived
splenocytes containing alloreactive T cells. 1x106 human LSSCs were injected intra
peritoneally at timepoints following GVHD induction, while control mice received saline
(vehicle). Survival was monitored.
        FIG. 13 shows that transcriptional characteristics of LSSCs. Transcriptional
characteristics of human LSSCs were obtained using flow cytometry for surface markers
and RT-PCR for secreted factor (FIG. 13A), and Affymetrix HuGene ST1.0 gene arrays
                                               8

to obtain mRNA transcriptomes (FIG. 13B).
         FIG. 14 shows the morphological characteristics of human LSSCs. Cultured
LSSCs grown in alpha-MEM supplemented with fetal calf serum showed fibroblast-like
morphology. They often exhibit long processes, lamellopodia, filopodia, ruffled leading
edges, and focal adhesions. Original magnification: 100x.
         FIG. 15 shows that ex vivo expanded mouse lymph node stroma reduce the
lethality of acute septic shock.
         FIG. 16 shows that murine FRCs protect against sepsis in 2 difference mouse
models when administered at therapeutic timepoints. In FIG. 16A, young C57B16/J mice
aged 3-6 weeks were treated with a LD100 dose of LPS, which is a polysaccharide that
forms part of a bacterial cell wall, and which elicits a strong systemic immune response.
As there is no active infection in this model, this model is known as "sterile sepsis". 4
hours after mice received LPS, they were treated with either FRCs in saline, or saline as
a control. The graph depicts % survival over time. In FIG. 16B, sterile sepsis was
induced in extremely old mice (18-24 months) as detailed in FIG. 16A, followed by
either FRCs or saline 4 hours later. Survival was monitored. In FIG. 16C, young mice
were given cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) sepsis, which involves puncturing the gut
twice with a needle to allow spillage of fecal matter into the peritoneal cavity, setting up
a severe infection which progresses to blood sepsis within 24 hours. This model mimics
a burst appendix, gunshot wound, or other trauma to the gut). Autologous FRCs were
administered 4 hours after CLP. In FIG. 16D, young mice were given CLP sepsis and
treated with antibiotics. Mice received saline, allogeneic FRCs or allogeneic MSCs as
indicated 4 hours after CLP. MSCs (mesenchymal stromal cells) were used as a cell
based negative control. MSCs are a suppressive stromal cell type, but several authors
have shown that their effect in sepsis, when administered as an allogeneic therapy and at
a therapeutic timepoint (>60 mins after the septic insult), to be minimal or absent
(Nemeth et al. 2010; Mei et al. 2010). Our results similarly showed no overall survival
benefit of MSC administration, whereas allogeneic FRCs imparted a significant survival
benefit. In FIG. 16E, mice in FIG. 16D were assessed 16 hours after CLP.
Concentrations of key cytokines in blood plasma were measured, comparing mice that
                                              9

received saline or allogeneic FRCs and untreated (non-septic) mice. Dotted lines
represent the lower and upper limits of reliable detection.
         FIG. 17 shows that murine FRCs protect against colitis mortality. Colitis was
induced by injecting purified naive T cells into immunodeficient mice. The mice develop
T cell-mediated inflammation against an unknown antigen (as happens in human
disease), resulting in significant weight loss, hypertrophy of the colon, and mortality.
This is a model for human chronic colitis or Crohn's disease. Allogeneic FRCs were
administered at 2 weeks, after the mice started showing signs of illness and losing
significant weight (a therapeutic timecourse). FRCs were injected twice weekly from
week 2 to week 6 compared to saline-treated controls. Survival was monitored.
         FIG. 18 shows that human LSSCs secrete soluble cytokine receptors. Human
LSSCs were cultured in DMEM with BSA, without stimulation or addition of exogenous
factors. Soluble cytokine receptor protein was detected from culture media 23 hours
after plating, using the Luminex Corporation's MAGPIX system as per the
manufacturer's instructions. Soluble cytokine receptors can bind free cytokines and
prevent them from pro-inflammatory functions in vivo.
         FIG. 19 demonstrates that LSSCs isolated from lymph node and tonsil are
phenotypically similar. Human LSSCs derived from lymph node or tonsil were assessed
by flow cytometry for surface expression of identifiers. All cells are CD45 negative, and
CD31 negative.
         FIG. 20 shows that LSSCs isolated from lymph node (FIG. 20A and FIG.
20B)and tonsil (FIG. 20C and FIG. 20D) show comparable levels of T cell suppression
via soluble factors. Allogeneic T cells derived from human blood were labeled with
CFSE, which is diluted each time a cell divides. T cells were then activated using PHA
and hIL-2, in the presence or absence of hLSSCs isolated from lymph node or tonsil.
hLSSCs were present either within the well, or physically separated from the T cells by a
0.4ptm transwell membrane which allows soluble factors to pass through but not cells.
Shown is the %T cells that have divided once, twice, 3 times, or not at all when
incubated at different ratios of hLSSCs to T cells, with and without a transwell. %
                                              10

suppression due to soluble factors was calculated as: T cells divided with a transwell/T
cell divided without a transwell x 100.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention, in one aspect, relates to isolated lymphoid tissue-derived
suppressive stromal cells (LSSC). Described herein are methods for isolating, and
expanding LSSC ex vivo in a commercially applicable manner, novel compositions
comprising LSSC, and uses of LSSC, particularly therapeutic applications to suppress
autologous, allogeneic and xenogeneic immune responses.
        The inventors discovered that stromal cells from lymph nodes can suppress the
activity of the immune system. Moreover, lymphoid tissue-derived stromal cells attract
immune cells, which is not a known feature of other immunosuppressive stromal cell
populations. The ability of lymphoid tissue-derived stromal cells to attract immune cells,
such as T cells, B cells, NK cells, combined with their immunosuppressive function
make them a surprisingly effective therapeutic tool for suppressing an immune response
in a subject. The LSSC can be used to suppress the activities of T cells, B cells, NK
cells, NKT cells, dendritic cells and macrophages, either alone or in concert with other
immunosuppressive drugs.
        Lymph nodes are important secondary lymphoid organs located at lymphatic
intersections in the body, allowing efficient interaction between antigen-presenting cells
and naive T and B cells and promoting effective initiation of immune responses
(Warnock et al., 1998, Mebius, 2003, Katakai et al., 2004a, Katakai et al., 2004b, Sixt et
al., 2005, Bajenoff et al., 2006, Junt et al., 2008). Lymph node stromal cells also play a
crucial and arguably underappreciated role in promoting the maintenance of naive T cells
(Link et al., 2007).
        Lymph nodes can be dissociated and the resulting cells grown in culture.
"Lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells" refers to all cell types present in a
lymphoid tissue that adhere to the tissue culture dishes and can be maintained for some
length of time. The cultured cells can be a heterogeneous population and can be made up
of most cells residing within lymph nodes such as fibroblastic reticular cells (FRC),
follicular dendritic cells (FDCs), lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC), blood endothelial
cells (BEC), and marginal reticular cells (MRC). The cultured cells also can be a
homogeneous population or any selected combination of FRC, FDC, LEC, BEC and/or
                                                11

MRC. In some embodiments, the LSSC are isolated and expanded ex vivo using the
methods described herein. The LSSC may be derived from cutaneous or mesenteric
lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, adenoids, and/or Peyer's patches. The LSSC are
free of or depleted of hematopoietic LSSC. In some embodiments, the LSSC are derived
from a species selected from the group consisting of human, non-human primate, canine,
feline, equine, swine, bovine, and rodent.
         Distinct stromal subtype cells impose the structure of the lymph node and
maintain each microniche. T cell zone fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs) express
chemokines CCL19 and CCL21 to attract T cells and dendritic cells (DCs), and lay down
an intricate meshwork of collagens and extracellular matrix on which these cells crawl
(Ansel et al., 2000, Luther et al., 2000, Katakai et al., 2004b, Bajenoff et al., 2006, Link
et al., 2007, Woolf et al., 2007). Analogous to FRCs but specialized for B cell attraction,
follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) are a rare stromal subset specialized for B cell attraction
and antigen presentation. FDCs are only found within B cell follicles, which they create
through CXCL13 secretion (Cyster et al., 2000). The lymph node capsule is essentially
an enlarged lymphatic vessel constructed from lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs), which
carry interstitial fluid to the node and empty it into the parenchyma. It filters through the
paracortex and cortex, eventually reaching efferent lymphatics in the medulla, which
convey lymph further upstream (Mebius, 2003, Willard-Mack, 2006). Blood endothelial
cells (BECs) construct cortical blood vessels and capillaries, including high endothelial
venules specialized to attract naive T cells from the bloodstream (Mebius, 2003, Willard
Mack, 2006).
         Several other stromal subsets have been reported in the literature but are poorly
studied, with their lineages and major functions undefined (reviewed by (Fletcher et al.,
2011). Marginal reticular cells (MRCs) are a subset of CXCL13-producing stroma
growing at the cortical face of the subcapsular sinus (Katakai et al., 2008). Their origin
is unknown though the cells show similarities to FRCs, including podoplanin expression
(Katakai et al., 2008). In the spleen, an analogous stromal subset is important for
migration of immature B cells into follicles (Ansel et al., 2000). It is hypothesized that
MRCs represent the postnatal equivalent of the lymphoid tissue organizer (LTo) subset
(Katakai et al., 2008) which is responsible for lymph node organogenesis (Coles et al.,
2010). Indeed, it has been convincingly shown that postnatal podoplanin+ splenic stroma
                                              12

are capable of regenerating through interaction with hematopoietic lymphoid tissue
inducer cells (Scandella et al., 2008).
         The LSSC are used according to the present invention to suppress an immune
response. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention involves methods for
suppressing an immune response by administering to a subject in need of such treatment
isolated lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC) in an amount
effective to suppress the immune response in the subject.
         As used herein, "isolated" refers to the separation of a population of stromal cells
away from other populations of non-stromal cells. Isolation can be effected by any
procedure which separates cells, such as growing conditions, purification techniques
such as the use of magnetic beads, cell sorting, or other similar techniques. In some
embodiments, the LSSC are isolated using the methods described herein.
         As used herein "suppressing" means reducing in degree, or severity, or extent, or
duration the overt manifestations of the immune response including, for example,
reduced activation of T cells or B cells, and reduced humoral and cell-mediated
responses. "Suppression" can be measured, for example, by examining the presence or
rate of T or B cell division in the presence or absence of LSSC, examining the release of
cytokines by immune cells in the presence or absence of LSSC, measuring antibody
production in the presence or absence of LSSC, or measuring CTL function in the
presence or absence of LSSC. Likewise, suppression of an immune response can be
measured symptomatically, such as, by determining a reduction in inflammation or other
symptoms associated with the disease being treated. "Suppression" of an immune
response does not require complete negation or prevention of any of these manifestations
of an immune response, but rather a reduction in degree or severity, or extent or duration,
which is of clinical or other practical significance. In one embodiment, suppression is
measured by examining the rate of cell division of pre-activated allogeneic T cells in the
presence or absence of LSSC. In one embodiment, suppression is measured by
examining the rate of lethality in mice with graft-versus-host disease in the presence or
absence of LSSC. In one embodiment, suppression is measured by examining the rate of
lethality of acute septic shock in mice.
         In some embodiments, a subject in need of such treatment has an autoimmune or
inflammatory disease.
                                               13

         The term 'autoimmune or inflammatory disease' refers to those disease states and
conditions wherein the immune response of the patient is directed against the patient's
own constituents resulting in an undesirable and often terribly debilitating condition. As
used herein, 'autoimmune or inflammatory disease' is intended to further include
autoimmune conditions, syndromes and the like. Example of autoimmune or
inflammatory diseases include, but are not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple
sclerosis, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease, graft-versus-host disease and sepsis.
         In some embodiments, a subject in need of treatment is a subject identified as
having one or more of conditions described above, i.e. the subject has been diagnosed by
a physician (e.g., using methods well known in the art) as having a disease or condition
described above. In some embodiments, the subject in need of treatment is a subject
suspected of having or developing a disease or condition described above, such as a
subject presenting one or more symptoms indicative of a disease or condition described
above (e.g. extreme fatigue or joint pain). In some embodiments, a subject in need of
treatment is a subject with one or more risk factors for developing an autoimmune or
inflammatory disease. Risk factors include but are not limited to gender, age, genetic
predisposition, previous incidents of autoimmune or chronic inflammatory disease, and
lifestyle. The term "subject in need of treatment" further includes people who once had a
disease or condition described above but whose symptoms have ameliorated.
         In some embodiments, a subject in need of treatment has or is suspected of
having an autoimmune or inflammatory disease. The subject may display, for example,
abnormal titres of autoantibodies.
         The subject is an animal, typically a mammal. In one aspect, the subject is a dog,
a cat, a horse, a sheep, a goat, a cow or a rodent. In important embodiments, the subject
is a human.
         The LSSC are administered in an effective amount. An effective amount is a
dose sufficient to provide a medically desirable result and can be determined by one of
skill in the art using routine methods. In some embodiments, an effective amount is an
amount which results in any improvement in the condition being treated. In some
embodiments, an effective amount may depend on the type and extent of the disease or
condition being treated and/or use of one or more additional therapeutic agents.
However, one of skill in the art can determine appropriate doses and ranges
                                               14

of therapeutic agents to use, for example based on in vitro and/or in vivo testing and/or
other knowledge of compound dosages.
         When administered to a subject, effective amounts of the therapeutic agent will
depend, of course, on the particular disease being treated; the severity of the disease;
individual patient parameters including age, physical condition, size and weight,
concurrent treatment, frequency of treatment, and the mode of administration. These
factors are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and can be addressed with no
more than routine experimentation. In some embodiments, a maximum dose is used, that
is, the highest safe dose according to sound medical judgment.
         In the treatment of an autoimmune or inflammatory disease, an effective amount
is that amount which slows the progression of the disease, halts the progression of the
disease, or reverses the progression of the disease. An effective amount includes that
amount necessary to slow, reduce, inhibit, ameliorate or reverse one or more symptoms
associated with the autoimmune or inflammatory disease. In some embodiments, such
terms refer to a reduction in the swelling of one or more joints or a reduction in the pain,
fatigue and/or fever associated with the autoimmune or inflammatory disease. In some
embodiments, such terms refer to a reduction in the levels of circulating autoantibodies
associated with the autoimmune or inflammatory disease. In some embodiments, such
terms refer to a reduction in a human's PASI score. In some embodiments, such terms
refer to an improvement in a human's global assessment score.
         In some embodiments, at least 0.1 million LSSC are administered to the subject
on a per kilogram subject basis in one or more dose administrations, for one or several
days (depending of course of the mode of administration and the factors discussed
above). In some embodiments, at least 1 million LSSC are administered to the subject
on a per kilogram subject basis. In some embodiments, at least 10 million LSSC are
administered to the subject on a per kilogram subject basis. Actual dosage levels of
the therapeutic agent can be varied to obtain an amount that is effective to achieve the
desired therapeutic response for a particular patient, compositions, and mode of
administration. The selected dosage level depends upon the activity of the particular
compound, the route of administration, the tissue being treated, and prior medical history
of the patient being treated. However, it is within the skill of the art to start doses of the
compound at levels lower than required to achieve the desired therapeutic effort and to
gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved.
                                              15

         In some embodiments, the LSSC that are administered to the subject are ex vivo
expanded cells. The LSSC are expanded ex vivo by growing the cells in a culture
medium. The isolated LSSC may be grown in a culture medium, for example,
comprising a basal cell culture medium supplemented with one or more of a growth
factor, serum, a platelet lysate, and an antibiotic. In some embodiments, the isolated
LSSC are grown, for example, in a minimum essential medium (MEM) alpha medium
supplemented with fetal calf serum and penicillin/streptomycin. In some embodiments,
the LSSC that are administered to the subject are substantially free of non-LSSC. In
some embodiments, the LSSC are autologous, allogeneic or xenogeneic with respect to
the subject.
         Pharmaceutical preparations comprising the LSSC are administered to a subject
by any suitable route. For example, compositions can be administered to the subject by
intravenous, intraperitoneal, intra-arterial, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injection or by
local administration on or into a lesion, organ, organ capsule, adiposity, or lymph node.
         In some embodiments, the LSSC are on or in a two or three dimensional
framework which is implanted into the subject. Implants or matrices include polymeric
matrices such as fibrous or hydrogel based devices. The implant may be biodegradable
or non-biodegradable. Fibrous or hydrogel implants can be manufactured or constructed
using commercially available materials. The implants are typically formed of a natural or
a synthetic polymer. The LSSC are seeded onto the implant by application of a cell
suspension to the implant. This can be accomplished by soaking the implant in a cell
culture container or injection or other direct application of the cells to the implant. The
implant seeded with cells is implanted using standard surgical techniques. The implant
can be seeded and cultured in vitro prior to implantation, seeded and immediately
implanted or implanted and then seeded with cells. In the preferred embodiment cells
are seeded onto and into the implant and cultured in vitro for between approximately ten
hours and two weeks.
         Some aspects of the invention involve a method of isolating lymphoid tissue
derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC). The method comprises digesting lymphoid
tissue fragments using a combination of an enzyme mix and agitation and then collecting
the LSSC. In some embodiments, the digestion of the lymphoid tissue fragments is
performed in a series of steps comprising: (i) incubating the lymphoid tissue fragments
with an enzyme mix; (ii) agitating the tissue using a pipette followed by incubation to
                                               16

allow large fragments to settle; (iii) removing the supernatant and repeating steps (i) and
(ii) until all fragments are digested. The LSSC are then collected by pooling all
supernatant fractions followed by centrifugation to obtain cell pellets. In some
embodiments, the enzyme mix comprises a culture medium, Dispase, Collagenase and
DNase I. The LSSC may be derived from cutaneous or mesenteric lymph nodes, spleen,
thymus, tonsils, adenoids, and/or Peyer's patches. The isolated cells may be used to
suppress an immune response as described above.
         The isolated LSSC can be grown in a culture medium comprising a basal cell
culture medium supplemented with one or more of a growth factor, serum, a platelet
lysate, and an antibiotic. In some embodiments, the LSSC are grown in a minimum
essential medium (MEM) alpha medium supplemented with fetal calf serum and
penicillin/streptomycin. In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC are grown at 0.1-21%
partial pressure of oxygen. In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC are grown at 2.5
21% partial pressure of oxygen.
         In some embodiments, the LSSC are grown until the LSSC are substantially free
of non-LSSC. In some embodiments, the LSSC are grown until the number of stromal
cells increases by at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 75%, 100%, 200%, or more. In
some embodiments, the isolated LSSC are grown at a density of 1-10,000 cells/cm 2 . In
some embodiments, the isolated LSSC are grown at a density of 10-500 cells/cm 2.
         According to some aspects of the invention, a composition is provided. The
composition comprises isolated lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells
(LSSC), wherein the LSSC are isolated by the methods described herein. For example,
the LSSC are isolated by digesting lymphoid tissue fragments using a combination of an
enzyme mix and agitation and then collecting the LSSC.
         According to some aspects of the invention, a pharmaceutical preparation is
provided. The pharmaceutical preparation comprises a composition of isolated lymphoid
tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC). The LSSC may be isolated by treating
lymphoid tissue fragments using one or more of a chemical, mechanical, and electrical
cell separation process, and then by collecting the LSSC. For example, the cells may be
separated by enzymatic or chemical digestion, physical disruption and agitation, and/or
by using electric fields.
         The isolated LSSC may be expanded through cell culture. In some embodiments,
the isolated LSSC are ex vivo expanded cells. In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC
                                              17

are expanded by growing the collected cells until the LSSC are substantially free of non
LSSC. The cells may be grown in a culture medium comprising a basal cell culture
medium supplemented with one or more of a growth factor, serum, a platelet lysate, and
an antibiotic.
        In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC co-express platelet derived growth
factor receptor, alpha polypeptide (PDGFRa or CD140a) and programmed cell death
ligand 2 (PD-L2 or CD273). In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC co-express
CD140a and lymphotoxin 0 receptor (LTBR). In some embodiments, the isolated LSSC
co-express CD140a , PD-L2 and LTBR. The isolated LSSC may also express one or
more other lymphoid marker selected from the group consisting of programmed cell
death 1 ligand 1 (PD-Li), Thy-I cell surface antigen (Thy-1), mucosal vascular
addressin cell adhesion molecule I (MADCAM-1), myosin heavy chain II (MYH 11),
interleukin 7 receptor (IL-7R), or integrin alpha 7 (ITGA7). In some embodiments, the
isolated LSSC express at least one factor selected from the group consisting of
interleukin 6 (IL-6), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19), chemokine (C-C motif)
ligand 21 (CCL21), or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
        The LSSC may be isolated from a species selected from the group consisting of
human, non-human primate, canine, feline, equine, swine, bovine, and rodent, and
suppress T cell proliferation in vitro.
        The pharmaceutical preparations of the present invention may include or be
diluted into a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier. The term "pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier" as used herein means one or more compatible fillers, diluants or other
such substances, which are suitable for administration to a human or other mammal such
as a dog, cat, or horse. The term "carrier" denotes an organic or inorganic ingredient,
natural or synthetic, with which the active ingredient is combined to facilitate the
application. The carriers are capable of being commingled with the preparations of the
present invention, and with each other, in a manner such that there is no interaction
which would substantially impair the desired pharmaceutical efficacy or stability.
Carriers suitable for oral, subcutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular, etc. formulations can
be found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Company, Easton,
Pa.
        The present invention is further illustrated by the following Example, which in no
way should be construed as further limiting. The entire contents of all of the references
                                              18

(including literature references, issued patents, published patent applications, and
co-pending patent applications) cited throughout this application are hereby expressly
incorporated by reference.
                                        EXAMPLES
Materials and Methods
Mice
         Male C57B1/6 mice aged 4-6 wk were obtained from the Jackson Laboratory.
Mice used for ImmGen sorting were precisely age-matched to 6 weeks. Male C57BL/6
Rag-'- mice were obtained from Taconic. All mice were rested for 5 days post-transport,
and were specific pathogen free and cared for in accordance with institutional and
National Institutes of Health guidelines. Experimental procedures were conducted with
the approval of the Research Animal Care subcommittee at the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute.
Human lymph nodes
         Human lymph nodes were procured from cadaveric donors through the National
Disease Research Interchange (NDRI) resource center (Philadelphia, USA). Intact lymph
nodes were transported in DMEM on ice, and processed for flow cytometry or cell
culture within 24 hours.
Antibodies
         For flow cytometry, cell sorting and cryosection staining of mouse lymph node
stroma, the following antibodies were used: anti-CD45 (clone 40-F 11, BD Biosciences),
anti-podoplanin (clone 8.1.1, Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank), anti-CD31
(clone MEC 13.3, Biolegend), anti-Lyve 1 (clone 10.1.1, a kind gift from Dr. Andrew
Farr), and anti-MadCAM (clone MECA-367, eBioscience). Propidium iodide and clone
TERI 19 (Biolegend) were used where appropriate to exclude dead cells and
erythrocytes. For staining human cells, antibodies used were: anti-CD45 (clone H130,
Biolegend), anti-CD31 (clone WM59, BD Biosciences) and anti-podoplanin (clone NZ
1, AngioBio Co), detected with highly cross-adsorbed anti-rat IgG (H+L) Alexa-488
(Invitrogen).
                                              19

Enzymatic digestion of lymph nodes from individual mice
        For flow cytometric analysis or cell culture, lymph nodes from individual mice
were dissected, pierced once with fine forceps, and placed in 5ml of RPMI-1640 on ice.
Where use of skin-draining lymph nodes was specified, we dissected axillary, brachial
and inguinal lymph nodes. After all lymph nodes were dissected, RPMI-1640 was
removed and replaced with 2ml of freshly-made enzyme mix comprised of RPMI- 1640
containing 0.8mg/ml Dispase and 0.2mg/ml Collagenase P (both from Roche), and
0. 1mg/ml DNase I (Invitrogen). Tubes were incubated at 37C in a waterbath and gently
inverted at 5 min intervals to ensure the contents were well-mixed. After 20 mins, lymph
nodes were very gently aspirated and expirated using a 1ml pipette, which disrupted the
capsule and released most leukocytes. The mixture was replaced in the waterbath and
large fragments were allowed to settle for 30 seconds, after which the enzyme mix was
removed and added to 10ml of ice-cold FACS buffer (2% FCS, 5mM EDTA in PBS) and
centrifuged (300g, 4 min, 4C). 2ml of fresh enzyme mix was added to the digestion tube,
the contents gently mixed using a 1ml pipette, and incubated, with regular gentle mixing
using a 1ml pipette. After 10 min, the cells were mixed vigorously for 30 seconds using a
1ml pipette. Fragments were again allowed to settle, the supernatant was removed and
added to the previously spun cell pellet, and 2ml of fresh enzyme mix was added to the
digestion tube. From here, the digestion mix was vigorously mixed using a 1ml pipette
every 5 mins until, when held up to light, it was clear that all remaining lymph node
fragments were completely digested. This procedure, from the time of first incubation to
complete digestion, usually took 50 mins, and never longer than 60 mins. Supernatants
were centrifuged after each removal (300g, 4 min, 4C) until finally, each collection tube
contained the entire cellular contents of an individual mouse's harvested lymph nodes.
Cells were filtered through 80 im nylon mesh, counted using a hemocytometer, and
assessed for viability using trypan blue. Viability exceeded 95%. 5x106 cells per stain
were then incubated with 50 1 diluted antibodies for 20min at 4C in ice-cold FACS
buffer (2% FCS, 5mM EDTA in PBS) before acquisition on a FACSCalibur or
FACSAria Iu (BD Biosciences).
Enzymatic digestion and stromal enrichment of lymph nodes from pooled mice for cell
sorting and large-scale isolation
                                              20

        Digestion of multiple pooled mice generally proceeded as described in 2.1, with
changes as follows (depicted graphically in Figure 1): lymph nodes from 4-10 mice were
pooled in a single tube and digested using 5ml of enzyme mix per digestion step. After
lymph nodes were fully digested, and the cells centrifuged and counted, the single cell
preparation was enriched for non-hematopoietic stromal cells using CD45 microbeads
and the autoMACS system (both from Miltenyi). We used 7[tL beads per 107 cells,
incubated in FACS buffer for 20 min on a rotating wheel at 4C. The labeled fraction was
then depleted using the Depletes program, according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Enriched stroma were then counted and stained using a high volume of antibody (100[iL
of diluted antibody cocktail per 106 cells) for cell sorting.
Enzymatic digestion of human lymph nodes
        Human lymph nodes were carefully cleaned of fat and connective tissue, then cut
into small pieces (<0.5cm) using fine scissors. Digestion proceeded according to section
2.4, however enzyme concentration was increased to 2.4mg/ml Dispase and 0.6mg/ml
Collagenase P (both from Roche), and 0.3mg/ml DNase I (Invitrogen) in RPMI-1640. In
some cases we did not digest the entire organ, and instead took a random selection of
approx. 20 mixed fragments, representing all areas of the node. After 60 mins, lymph
node fragments were completely digested, and were then filtered, counted and where
required stained, as detailed above.
Low pressure flow cytometric stromal cell sorting
        Flow cytometric sorting of stromal cells is improved when a specialized low
pressure, large aperture setup is used; however there are technical challenges inherent in
resetting a sorter to a non-standard specification and then successfully sorting pure
populations. We used FACSAria or upgraded FACSAria IIu machines utilizing
FACSDiva software (all from BD Bioscience) set to 20psi and fitted with a 100[tm tip.
While each machine will differ, we have found that the following approximate
specifications have applied to at least 4 different FACSAria machines set up for stromal
sorting. These differ from the suggested setups specified by the manufacturer.
        Decreased stream pressure increases droplet size, such that only 5-6 droplets are
visible through the stream visualization window at 20psi, instead of 10-12 droplets at
70psi. While the droplet breakoff point directly affects sort success and should always be
                                              21

visible, it is possible for the satellite resolution point to occur below view while sorting
at low pressure, even after increasing the droplet frequency. This does not preclude a
successful sort; however, it is important to be confident that satellite resolution occurs no
more than 1-2 droplets below the screen. This can be reasonably established in 2 ways:
first, by temporarily adjusting the droplet breakoff point higher and out of view, so that
the satellite resolution point becomes visible, and counting the number of droplets
between breakoff and resolution before readjusting downwards; and second, by looking
at the decreasing distance between satellite and droplet, and estimating the number of
droplets until resolution occurs. The satellites, if not resolved on-screen, should be very
close to resolution.
         Critically, deciding whether to apply the attenuation control (which dampens
droplet amplitude) alters subsequent specifications considerably. Sample setup sort
reports both with and without attenuation are provided for reference (Table 1). BD
Biosciences manual recommends attenuation not be applied when sorting at 20psi;
however, we found it necessary at times with the FACSAria (but not FACSAria Ilu) to
generate a good stream. While a manual adjustment of the 100 m tip was required to
generate a good stream using the FACSAria, we have not had to move the tip or utilize
attenuation for the FACSAria Iu system, where the o-ring is permanently fitted.
         Lastly, we have noted that the 633nm laser delay can suddenly change when low
pressure is engaged. The reasons for this are unclear, but we recommend using CST
beads to set delays, or testing laser function using SPHERO Rainbow particles (BD
Bioscience) (or any similar calibration check). Note that a lack of signal from the 633nm
laser may require re-calibration of the laser delay.
         Compensation for a stromal cell sort should be strictly performed using enriched
stromal cells. Stroma are large cells with a degree of accompanying autofluorescence. A
machine compensated using leukocytes yields suboptimal resolution of populations when
stroma are sorted. Enriched stroma should be used to compensate, because in unenriched
populations, stroma are usually rare, and we find that the autocompensation software
cannot differentiate between normal levels of autofluorescence in a digested single cell
suspension and true stromal staining.
         When the machines are optimally calibrated, sorting proceeds with excellent
resolution of sorting streams and good efficiency. Sort streams should resolve well as
                                                 22

bright, discrete dots in the sort window; 'spraying' of the sorting streams should not be
evident.
        AutoMACS-enriched stroma were routinely sorted to high purity (>95%) into
TRIzol (Invitrogen). After gating on CD45- propidium iodide- stroma, subsets were
sorted as follows: fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs), podoplanin*CD3 -; lymphatic
endothelial cells (LECs), podoplanin*CD3 -; blood endothelial cells (BECs), podoplanin
CD31; double negative stromal cells (DNs), podoplanin-CD3I-.
Microarray Assays and Analysis
        RNA from 10,000-15,000 sorted cells was isolated as previously described
(Yamagata et al., 2004), then amplified and hybridized to Affymetrix GeneChip Mouse
Gene 1.0 ST Arrays (Santa Clara, CA, USA) using the GeneChip Whole Transcript
Sense Target Labeling Assay according to the manufacturer's instructions. This yielded
whole-transcript information using probes designed to bind in multiple locations across
each gene. Raw data was normalized using the robust multi-array average (RMA)
preprocessing algorithm (performing background adjustment, quantile normalization and
summarization) (Irizarry et al., 2003), in the Expression File Creator module of
GenePattern. Probe lists were analyzed for expression in at least one subset (excluded if
mean expression value <120 across all subsets), and for low variance among replicates
(excluded if coefficient of variation > 0.5 in either population). We used the Multiplot
module of GenePattern to calculate differences between skin lymph node FRCs and
mesenteric lymph node FRCs. Differences were considered for further analysis if the
fold change in expression was > 2 and P<0.05 (student's T test). Output data lists were
ranked using Microsoft Excel, and gene lists were analyzed for enrichment across KEGG
pathways using the DAVID program's Functional Annotation tool (NIAID,
david.abcc.ncifcrf.gov (Dennis et al., 2003)), and with Affymetrix exon background set
to the MoGene- 1_0-st-v-I chip. KEGG pathway analyses with T-test P-values < 0.05
after multiple hypothesis (Benjamini) correction were considered significant. The NCBI
GEO accession number for the data series is GSE15907.
Lymph node stromal cell culture techniques
        Lymph nodes were digested as detailed above, then counted, and plated at a
concentration of 5x105 cells/cm2. Cell culture media was aMEM supplemented with
                                               23

10% batch-tested, low Ig FCS, and 1% Penicillin/Streptomycin. Plates were washed after
24 hours to remove non-adherent cells. After 5 days, mouse cell cultures primarily
contained LECs and FRCs. Human cell cultures grew more slowly and were harvested
after 7 days. Human lymph node stromal cell cultures primarily contained FRCs and
DNs. A non-standard harvesting protocol was routinely utilized, consisting of a short
incubation in low-concentration Trypsin with EDTA to minimize trypsin-based shearing
of important cell surface markers (Table 2). Cells were washed with PBS to remove
residual protein, and harvest buffer (0.2% Trypsin with 5mM EDTA in PBS) was added
to culture plates. Cells were incubated in harvest buffer at 37C for 2 mins. At this point,
their morphology became rounder, and an equal volume of complete media was
immediately added to wells. Cells were washed from the plate with gentle agitation using
a 1ml pipette, and supernatant was added to another equal volume of complete media for
centrifuging (300g, 3 minutes, 4C). FRCs and LECs were replated, sorted, or MACS
purified from this preparation as required.
        For three-dimensional cultures and network analyses, cells were cultured in
deformable matrices constructed from 3.2mg/ml of high concentration rat tail Collagen I
(BD Biosciences), 1.8mg/ml Matrigel basement membrane matrix (BD Bioscience),
8.3% (v/v) of 5x aMEM stock made in-house from aMEM powder (Invitrogen), and
30% (v/v) culture media containing cells to be plated. Gel components were mixed on
ice and 200[1 plated onto plastic, or glass-bottomed culture dishes for imaging (MatTek).
Gels were left to set at 37C for 10 mins before being covered with culture media. For
contraction assays, gels were created in flat-bottomed 96 well culture plates and
photographed after 15 hours. Contraction was measured using the following equation:
area contracted gel (cm 2) / area well (cm 2 ) *100 = % contraction. For time-lapse live cell
imaging, bone-marrow derived dendritic cells or B cells were mixed at a 5:1 ratio with
purified cultured FRCs. During imaging, gels were incubated at 37C with 10% C02 in
aMEM containing 10% FCS. Movies depict time-lapse imaging with 1 frame acquired
every 90 seconds.
Immunohistology and confocal microscopy
        Lymph nodes were freshly dissected and fixed in 10% paraformaldehyde for 4
hours, then left in 10% sucrose solution overnight. Blocks were then embedded in OCT
compound (VWR) and snap-frozen, then stored at -80 0 C. Lymph nodes were
                                                24

cryosectioned (7[tm) using a Leica cryostat, and acetone fixed, then blocked for 30 min
using 2% BSA. After washing in PBS, sections were stained with primary antibody for
60 mins, then washed and stained with secondary antibody for a further 60 mins. Slides
were mounted with a coverslip using fluorescent mounting medium (DAKO) and stored
at 4C. Images were acquired using a Leica Sp5 confocal microscope.
Statistical Analysis
         GenePattern's Multiplot program was used to calculate T-test P values on
normalized, array data where the coefficient of variance between replicates for any
sample was <0.5. A P-value of <0.05 was considered significant if the fold-change
observed was also <2. Genes were tested for KEGG pathway association using the
DAVID program (david.abcc.ncifcrf.gov), which compared data using a modified
Fisher's Exact Test, and a T-test with a Benjamini multiple hypothesis correction, to
show enrichment of 2 or more genes in a particular list. The non-parametric Mann
Whitney U test was used to compare flow cytometric data (Prism).
Lymph node stromal cell isolation and culture
         C57B16/J mice aged 3-6 weeks were used as FRC donors. Cutaneous and
mesenteric lymph nodes were dissected and digested using enzymatic and mechanical
means. Lymph nodes from 10 mice were incubated in: 0.8mg/ml Dispase, 0.2mg/ml
Collagenase P, and 0.1mg/ml DNase in RPMI-1640, for 60 minutes at 37C, with regular
agitation and replacement of the enzyme mixture. Digested cells were recovered via
centrifugation. Once digestion was complete, cells were resuspended in RPMI-1640,
filtered through 80[tm mesh, and counted using a hemocytometer and trypan blue. Cells
were plated into culture flasks at 5x10 5 cells/cm 2 . Culture media consisted of 10% batch
tested low Ig FCS with 1% penicillin/streptomycin in aMEM. Cells were washed after
24 hours, grown for a further 6 days, then passaged once using 0.2% Trypsin and 5mM
EDTA in PBS and split at a 1:10 ratio for expansion for a further 5-6 days before use.
MSC isolation and culture
         MSCs were harvested from the bone marrow of FRC donor mice described
above. Femurs and tibias were removed from 10 mice. The marrow was recovered by
centrifugation and resuspended in sterile RPMI- 1640 using a pipette. Cells were plated
                                              25

into culture flasks at 5x10 5 cells/cm 2 . Culture media consisted of 10% batch-tested low
Ig FCS with 1% penicillin/streptomycin in aMEM. Cells were washed after 24 hours,
grown for a further 6 days, then passaged once using 0.2% Trypsin and 5mM EDTA in
PBS and split at a 1:10 ratio for expansion for a further 5-6 days before use.
FRC and MSC purification
         Cells were harvested using 0.2% Trypsin and 5mM EDTA in PBS, then counted
using a hemocytometer and trypan blue (viability exceeded 95%), and resuspended in
1ml FACS buffer (PBS with 2% FCS and 5mM EDTA), with lOul anti-CD31-biotin and
lOul anti-CD45-biotin, per 107 cells. After 15 mins cells were washed and incubated with
anti-biotin microbeads and passed through a MACS LS column according to the
manufacturer's instructions (Miltenyi Biotec). MACS-purified FRCs were used for all
studies.
Sepsis induction: LPS model
         C57B16/J mice aged either 3-6 weeks (young) or 18-24 months (aged) received a
single injection of LPS, resulting in sterile sepsis. Young mice received 300 tg LPS i.p.
in 100ul saline, and aged mice received 150[tg i.p. in 100ul saline. 1x106 FRCs were
administered as a single injection i.p. at the stated timepoint, in saline. Mice were
euthanized if they reached any of the following endpoints: loss of consciousness,
inability to be roused, inability to stand, or a sustained drop in breathing rate below 20
breaths / 10 seconds.
Sepsis induction: CLP model
         Balb/c mice received cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), resulting in
polymicrobial sepsis. Briefly, mice were anesthetized and a midline incision made
through skin and peritoneal muscle. The cecum was located and externalized onto a
sterile surgical field, then 80% of the cecum was ligated using 6.0 suture, and the cecum
punctured twice using a 23g needle. A small droplet of fecal matter was exuded before
the cecum was replaced and the muscle and skin closed. Mice received 1ml saline s.c. At
the stated timepoint, mice received a single i.p. injection of either saline or 1x106
allogeneic FRCs in saline. At this time, antibiotic treatment also commenced for all mice
(15mg ampicillin in saline injected i.p.). Antibiotics were administered every 12 hours.
                                                26

Mice were euthanized if they reached any of the following endpoints: loss of
consciousness, inability to be roused, inability to stand, or a sustained drop in breathing
rate below 20 breaths / 10 seconds.
Cytokine array
         Blood was obtained as detailed above, and plasma collected by centrifugation.
Concentration of analytes was obtained using the Luminex MAGPIX assay and reader
with xPONENT software, according to manufacturer's instructions.
Induction of colitis model
         Female C/B 17.scid mice aged 8 weeks were used as colitis recipients. Female
Balb/c donors aged 7 weeks were used as cell donors to induce colitis. Spleens, and
cutaneous and mesenteric lymph nodes were dissected from 20 Balb/c mice and
suspended using mechanical disruption into RPMI- 1640. Cells were filtered and counted,
then enriched for naive CD4+ T cells using a CD4±CD62L*CD440' isolation kit (R&D
Systems), according to the manufacturer's instructions. CD4*CD45RBhi+ T cells were
then sorted using FACS, and resuspended in sterile RPMI-1640. 15 C/B 17.scid mice
received 5x10 5 cells i.v. in 100ul RPMI-1640. Mice began to lose weight 2 weeks post
colitis induction, indicating disease onset. Mice then received 1x106 allogeneic FRCs
injected i.p. twice per week for the duration of the study. Mice were euthanized if they
reached any of the following endpoints: loss of >20% of their starting bodyweight, or
hindlimb paralysis.
Results
Enzymatic isolation of mouse and human lymph node stromal cells
         The study of lymph node stromal cells has gathered recent momentum, with
several high-impact papers dissecting their newly discovered roles in maintaining (Link
et al., 2007) and deleting (Lee et al., 2007, Nichols et al., 2007, Gardner et al., 2008,
Magnusson et al., 2008, Yip et al., 2009, Cohen et al., 2010, Fletcher et al., 2010) naive
T cells. Methodological capabilities, however, have been a limiting factor.
         We therefore aimed to develop a low-mortality enzymatic digestion protocol
which would enable highly reproducible isolation of lymph node stromal cells with low
variability. Using a combination of enzymatic and physical dissociation (Figure 1), we
                                              27

routinely isolated stromal cells with >95% viability (Figure 2A) using trypan blue on
whole lymph node suspensions (1.5% stroma) immediately after isolation. Six hours
after isolation and stromal enrichment, the average viability of stroma using propidium
iodide was 87.8% ±0.8 (mean ± standard deviation, n=3 experiments). This high
viability also allowed us to characterize and compare the number of each stromal subset
present in individual mice, and was a key factor in successfully sorting and culturing
these cells. We used CD45, podoplanin, CD31 and MadCAM (Figure 2B) to study 5
major subsets of lymph node stroma. The MadCAM+ MRC subset, in particular, has not
previously been isolated for flow cytometric analysis.
         We first directly compared our flow cytometric strategies to previously defined in
situ histological analyses of stromal subsets (Figure 2C). Our aim was to establish
methods that would enable changes in stromal architecture to be monitored in parallel
with changes to number or proportion of cell types, mRNA profile, and other techniques
requiring cell isolation.
         Accordingly, we found that FRCs, as defined by flow cytometry, created a
reticular network throughout the T cell zone as expected (top panel). BECs expressed
CD31 but not podoplanin and were primarily present in the cortex (top panel), with high
endothelial venules distinguishable by their small size and cuboidal morphology. LECs,
defined by coexpression of podoplanin and CD3 1, lined large lymphatic vessels in the
hilar region of the medulla (middle panel) and subcapsule (data not shown). This hilar
region also contained large blood vessels (CD3 1 podoplanin-. MadCAM* reticular cells
lined the subcapsule (bottom panel) and MadCAM staining was also present in the B cell
zone, as previously reported. We found that subcapsular LECs (shown here expressing
Lyve-1) also expressed MadCAM (bottom panel), making the subcapsule a MadCAM
rich region of the lymph node. Phenotypically, MRCs formed a subset within the
podoplanin* CD3 - FRC gate by flow cytometry (Figure 2B).
         We hypothesized that our isolation methods could be applied to isolate human
lymph node stroma, allowing the creation of useful ex-vivo experimental systems.
Human lymph node stromal architecture is well described by histology (Link et al.,
2011) but subsets have not been isolated for flow cytometry or other immunological
studies.
         We acquired human lymph nodes of non-mesenteric origin from cadaveric
donors. While increased enzyme concentration was required to digest the lymph nodes
                                             28

(see Methods), once digested, their stromal composition was markedly similar to mice
(compare Figure 2D and 2B). These results suggest that murine lymph node stromal cell
techniques may be equally applicable to human studies.
Mesenteric lymph nodes contain fewer FRCs than skin-draining lymph nodes
         To further validate our digestion, we tested its reproducibility by assessing how
much the proportional makeup of lymph node stromal cell subsets varied between age
matched mice. We also compared the stromal composition of skin-draining and
mesenteric lymph nodes. While these lymph nodes have well-established structural
similarities and are well-studied by histology, their ontogenies occur at different times
and are dependent on different signaling pathways (Mebius, 2003). Additionally,
mesenteric lymph nodes are continually exposed to gut and gastromucosally-derived
antigens, while skin-draining lymph nodes are not.
         Surprisingly, we found that while similar numbers of cells were isolated from
each skin-draining or mesenteric lymph node (Figure 3A), the stromal composition
significantly differed (Figure 3B). FRCs, which grow throughout the T cell zone, were
present at greater frequency (Figure 3B, Figure 2B), and were more numerous (Figure
3C) in skin-draining lymph nodes than mesenteric lymph nodes. LECs, BECs, DNs and
MRCs were present at similar numbers in both sites (Figure 3C), making the difference
FRC-specific.
         We asked whether this difference was due to skewing in the proportions of the
MRC subset (Katakai et al. 2008) which, we found, falls within the FRC gate (Figure
2B). 10-20% of cells within the FRC gate expressed MadCAM in 5 week old male mice,
with a higher proportion in mesenteric lymph nodes than skin-draining lymph nodes
(Figure 2B, 3D). However, while MRC proportions were significantly altered between
sites, similar to LECs, their overall numbers were not (Figure 3E). This suggests that
MRC numbers and FRC numbers are differently regulated, since MRCs, like the other
stromal subsets, are numerically similar between sites, while FRCs are reduced in
mesenteric lymph nodes.
         In some lymphoid organs, such as the thymus, the numbers of predominant
stromal cell subsets expand or shrink in parallel with developing T cells. We tested
whether this applied to the FRC population using Rag-'- mice, which lack T and B cells.
FRCs develop in Rag-'- lymph nodes, but it is not known whether they expand and
                                              29

contract in response to lymphocyte numbers. This question is particularly relevant to
infection, since lymph nodes must expand dramatically in a short time to contain
proliferating lymphocytes.
        While Rag-'- mice had smaller lymph nodes (Figure 3F), they possessed normal
numbers of FRCs compared to age-matched wildtype controls (Figure 3G). The number
of LECs, however, was significantly reduced, suggesting that their numerical
homeostasis is linked to the presence of mature lymphocytes. Rag-'- FRCs did not differ
from WT in rates of cell turnover (data not shown), and after injecting LPS into mice, the
number of FRCs did not expand alongside T and B cells (data not shown). FRC numbers
were therefore maintained completely independent of mature lymphocytes under
lymphopenic, steady-state, and inflammatory conditions.
        Surprisingly, we found that the MRC subset was underdeveloped in Rag-'-mice
(Figure 3H-J). It is reported that MadCAM+ MRCs exist by histology in Rag-'- mice
(Katakai et al., 2008), but in our hands, both the numbers of MadCAM+ MRCs and the
amount of MadCAM protein per MRC were significantly reduced (Figure 2H- J). This
also applied to MadCAM* LECs (Figure 3H-J), suggesting that upregulation of
MadCAM expression in both cell types denotes a developmental stage requiring the
presence of lymphocytes, though expression of the protein itself can occur in their
absence. While the proportion of MadCAM* LECs was similar between WT and Rag-
(Figure 3H), the significant reduction in total LECs (Figure 3G) translated to reduced
numbers of MadCAM* LECs (Figure 31).
Enriching and sorting lymph node stromal cell subsets
        Following the successful digestion of lymph nodes, we next adapted the means to
successfully sort and culture the stromal cells. Sorting stromal cells can be technically
difficult (see methods) and we used MACS-based depletion of hematopoietic cells to
decrease sorting times and increase the resulting purity. This additional step yielded
minimal loss of stroma (Figure 4A, B) and did not appreciably alter the stromal
composition; we saw no selective loss of stromal subsets post-MACS (Figure 4C) and,
after sorting, achieved excellent purity (Figure 4D).
        Using this method, we sorted FRCs from skin-draining and mesenteric lymph
nodes as part of the multicenter lmmGen Consortium. This involved transcriptomic
analysis of cells sorted under highly controlled, minimally variable conditions, with the
                                              30

overall aim of generating a public database to provide a comprehensive, cross-referenced
map of the immunological genome.
        FRCs from skin-draining and mesenteric lymph nodes were analyzed for
expression of 25,194 probes to yield a list of 11,162 probes expressed above an arbitrary
threshold (mean expression value >120) in either skin-draining or mesenteric lymph
nodes. These probes were also filtered for a low (<0.5) coefficient of variance between
replicates.
        We first confirmed that FRCs from these different locations shared expression of
previously published FRC-specific markers such as CD140a, CCL19, and IL-7 (data not
shown), then analyzed the data for differences. Comparing skin-draining vs mesenteric
lymph node FRCs, a volcano plot depicting fold-change and P-value showed that 130
probes were significantly upregulated in FRCs from skin-draining compared to
mesenteric lymph nodes, while expression of 97 probes was significantly higher in
mesenteric lymph node FRCs compared to skin-draining (>2fold change, P<0.05)
(Figure 5A). After mapping the probes to unique genes, these data corresponded to
upregulation of 126 genes in skin-draining lymph node FRCs (data not shown) and 54
genes in mesenteric lymph node FRCs (data not shown)
        We were interested in whether these lists contained evidence for activation of
particular gene pathways, or gene networks uniquely operating in either cell type, as a
clue to any site-specific specialization. Using the free online program DAVID (version
6.7; National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases), we used a network analysis
tool (KEGG) to comb the lists for known biological connections between these genes,
then used statistical analysis tools to assess whether the connected genes appeared
together at a frequency greater than would be expected by chance. The KEGG pathway
mmu04O6O, which covers cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, was significantly
enriched in FRCs from skin-draining lymph nodes compared to mesenteric (genes
appeared at a frequency 4.8-fold higher than expected by chance, Benjamini corrected P
value = 0.0055). This list included ten genes of immunological relevance (Figure 5B)
upregulated in skin-draining lymph node FRCs by at least twofold. Genes upregulated in
mesenteric lymph nodes were not significantly enriched in an identifiable KEGG
pathway, but notably included genes involved in regulating the growth of fibroblasts,
genes relevant to the gut microenvironment, such as those involved in retinoic acid
                                               31

metabolism or MadCAM expression, endothelial cell cross-talk, extracellular matrix
secretion, and outgrowth of peripheral neurons (Table 3).
Cultured FRCs mimic in vivo function and support leukocyte migration
         We next tested the ability of lymph node stroma to grow in culture. We found
that stroma from a successfully digested lymph node cell suspension will readily adhere
to tissue culture plates within 2 hours of plating and begin to expand at the expense of
CD45+ leukocytes, which form less than 10% of the culture after 5 days (Figure 6A).
FRCs and LECs readily grew in culture, while BECs and DN cells did not (Figure 6A).
FDCs did not grow in culture (Figure 6B). Importantly, our low-trypsin, high EDTA
harvesting protocol allowed retention of important surface markers such as CD31 (Figure
6C) and CD140a (not shown; see table 2). We found that 5x105 cells / cm2, containing
approx. 5x103 stromal cells, routinely yielded approx. 1.5-2x104 stroma / cm2 after 5
days of culture. This culture system enabled easy expansion and manipulation of FRCs,
LECs and MRCs.
         FRCs in particular became highly polarized in two-dimensional (2D) culture
(Figure 6D) showing strong F-actin stress fibers (Figure 6E). This did not mimic their
morphology in vivo; so, using an optimized mix of Collagen I, matrigel, and enriched
aMEM, we also explored three-dimensional (3D) culture of FRCs and LECs, as a tool to
examine their function when permitted to expand and connect in three dimensions as
they do in vivo. We found that FRCs stretched and formed extensive networks when
grown in 3D (Figure 6D, E), while LECs preferred a flat surface and grew more
successfully in 2D culture (Figure 6D). Interestingly, neither cell type grew to
overconfluence under 3D conditions (data not shown), suggesting an innate regulation of
cell density that did not occur in 2D culture. To validate the biological relevance of this
in vitro FRC network, we performed two experiments. First, we placed a high number of
FRCs into a small matrigel plug, and monitored their ability to contract the gel (Figure
6F). FRCs express high levels of alpha smooth muscle actin and are highly contractile
(Link et al., 2007). We found that FRCs contracted the gel with high efficiency, and that
this contraction was prevented when the Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2 was added to
the gel. Second, we added bone marrow derived dendritic cells (DCs) or spleen-derived
lymphocytes to a gel containing FRCs, and used a live-imaging approach to find that, as
reported in vivo, DCs and lymphocytes crawled efficiently and preferentially along the
                                              32

FRC network (stills are shown in Figure 6G with full time-lapse movies shown in
Supplementary Movies 1 and 2).
         Using the same methods, we successfully cultured human lymph node stromal
cell subsets. Unlike murine cells, BECs and DN cells grew in vitro alongside LECs and
FRCs (Figure 6H).
         Together, these results showed that murine lymph node stroma were readily
isolated for flow cytometry and sorting, and could be cultured in the absence of
leukocytes, yet created extensive 3D networks on which leukocytes would readily crawl,
as reported in vivo. Our data suggested that human lymph node stroma were similarly
amenable to study using murine techniques.
         Together, these results describe the validation of a suite of techniques applicable
to the study of lymph node stromal cells in mice and humans, under a variety of ex vivo
and in vitro conditions.
Lymphoid tissue-derived suppressor cells suppress the proliferation of activated
allogeneic splenocytes
         Unfractionated LSSCs were cultured with freshly isolated human splenocytes
from an unrelated donor. Splenocytes were labeled with CFSE, a fluorescent dye that is
diluted when a cell divides. T cells within the splenocyte population were activated using
PHA and IL-2. FIG. 7 shows histograms depicting T cells, identified through expression
of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the proportion of splenocytes to stroma. T
cells stimulated without cultured stromal cells dilute their CFSE more than cells cultured
with LSSCs, and LSSCs suppress T proliferation in a dose-dependent manner (FIG. 7).
LSSCs suppress the proliferation of activated, xenogeneic T cells
         Unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly isolated mouse splenocytes.
Splenocytes were labeled with CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides. T cells were
then activated using anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies. FIG. 8 shows histograms
depicting T cells, identified through expression of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios
indicate the proportion of splenocytes to stroma. Blood-derived T cells stimulated
without cultured stromal cells dilute their CFSE more than cells cultured with LSSCs,
Both PDPN+ and PDPN- LSSC subpopulations are equally capable of suppressing T
                                              33

cells. LSSCs are potent suppressors of xenogeneic responses (compare with allogeneic
suppression shown in FIG. 7).
LSSCs suppress T cell proliferation via novel mechanisms
        In mice, a PDPN+ stromal cell derived from lymph nodes suppresses autologous
T cell proliferation via mechanisms critically requiring T cell-derived IFNg, and stromal
cell-derived nitric oxide (Lukacs-Kornek et al. Nature Immunology, 2011). We wanted
to test whether our LSSCs suppressed T cell responses using these same mechanisms.
        Unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly isolated splenocytes derived
from wildtype or IFNg-/- mice. Splenocytes were labeled with CFSE, which is diluted
when a cell divides. T cells were then activated using anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
antibodies. FIG. 9A shows histograms depicting T cells, identified through expression of
the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the proportion of splenocytes to stroma.
        PDPN+, PDPN-, and unfractionated LSSCs were cultured with freshly isolated,
purified human blood-derived T cells from an unrelated donor. T cells were labeled with
CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides. T cells were activated using PHA and IL-2.
FIG. 9B shows histograms depicting T cells, identified through expression of the T cell
antigen receptor. Supernatant was collected and tested for the presence of nitrite, a
conversion product of nitric oxide.
        It was found that LSSCs suppressed IFNg-/- T cells equally well as wildtype T
cells. Neither PDPN+ nor PDPN- LSSC subpopulations, nor unfractionated LSSCs
produced detectable nitric oxide / nitrite in the suppression assay. LSSCs suppress T cell
proliferation using novel, IFNg and nitric oxide-independent mechanisms and are
therefore significantly different from the mouse PDPN+ lymph node stromal population.
Two major subpopulations of lymphoid tissue-derived suppressor cells each suppress the
proliferation of activated allogeneic T cells
        In FIG. 10A, two subpopulations of LSSCs were purified based on expression or
lack of glycoprotein-36 (also known as PDPN). Both subpopulations were non
endothelial (CD31 negative) and non-hematopoietic (CD45 negative).
        PDPN+ LSSC, PDPN- LSSC, or unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly
isolated, purified human blood-derived T cells from an unrelated donor at a 1:5 ratio
(LSSCs to T cells). T cells were labeled with CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides.
                                               34

T cells were activated using PHA and IL-2. FIG. 1OB shows histograms depicting T
cells, identified through expression of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the
proportion of splenocytes to stroma.
         It was observed that blood-derived T cells stimulated without cultured stromal
cells dilute their CFSE more than cells cultured with LSSCs, Both PDPN+ and PDPN
LSSC subpopulations are equally capable of suppressing T cells.
LSSCs halt the division of pre-activated allogeneic T cells
         Some therapeutic applications for LSSCs would require their transfusion or
transplantation into individuals with an ongoing immune response. We therefore wanted
to see whether LSSCs could suppress pre-activated T cells.
         PDPN+ LSSC PDPN- LSSC, or unfractionated LSSC were cultured with freshly
isolated, purified human blood-derived T cells from an unrelated donor. T cells were
labeled with CFSE, which is diluted when a cell divides. T cells were activated using
PHA and IL-2, left to divide for 2 days, and then some T cells were replated onto LSSCs
and restimulated, or replated and restimulated without LSSCs, or replated without
restimulation. FIG. 11 shows histograms depicting T cells, identified through expression
of the T cell antigen receptor. Ratios indicate the proportion of LSSCs to T cells.
         It was found that T cells that have been stimulated for 2 days, and then replated
and restimulated with LSSCs, cease cell division, despite the fact that they have been
fully activated and have gone through several cell divisions prior to replating (shown
with the "replated, not restimulated" control). Both PDPN+ and PDPN- LSSC
subpopulations are equally capable of suppressing pre-activated allogeneic T cells.
LSSCs significantly reduce early lethality in mice with severe graft-versus-host disease
         Recipient mice received an allogenic bone marrow transplant (split-dose lethal
irradiation followed by i.v. injection of whole bone marrow). Severe GVHD was induced
at the time of transplant by co-injecting donor derived splenocytes containing
alloreactive T cells. 1x106 human LSSCs were injected intra-peritoneally at timepoints
following GVHD induction, while control mice received saline (vehicle). Survival was
monitored.
         All mice developed GVHD at similar timepoints, however mice receiving LSSCs
showed significantly reduced GVHD-associated lethality at early timepoints, suggesting
                                              35

that LSSCs reduce immune attack. The effects of early LSSC administration persisted for
3 weeks post-injection, at which point protection became ineffective, suggesting that re
administration may be indicated. A late injection of LSSCs (day 24) administered to
severely affected mice did not reverse morbidity or mortality.
         As shown in FIG. 15, ex vivo expanded mouse lymph node stroma reduced the
lethality of acute septic shock in mice.
Transcriptional characteristics of LSSCs
         Transcriptional characteristics of human LSSCs were obtained using flow
cytometry for surface markers and RT-PCR for secreted factor (FIG. 13A), and
Affymetrix HuGene ST1.0 gene arrays to obtain mRNA transcriptomes (FIG. 13B).
         Representative flow cytometry profiles (FIG. 13A) of LSSCs (black line)
compared to a relevant negative staining control (gray) showing expression of
mesenchymal marker PDGFRa, tolerance associated proteins PD-Li and PD-L2, muscle
associated protein ITGA7, and proteins characteristic of lymphoid organ stroma: LTBR,
IL7R, and PDPN. PDPN and ITGA7 were likely expressed by a subset of bulk LSSCs.
Alternate or gene names are shown in brackets. RT-PCR showed that LSSCs express
transcript for chemokines CCL19 and CCL21 (shown relative to LTbR as a positive
control).
         Using a gene array, we also assessed transcription of selected genes from 3 LSSC
samples, compared with publicly available data for 3 human bone marrow mesenchymal
stem cell samples (accession codes GM241199, GM241201, GM241203). The data
(FIG. 13B) showed that LSSCs expressed high levels of PD-L2, LTbR, Itga7, Myh 11
compared to BM-MSCs. LSSCs and MSCs expressed similar levels of CXCL12, Thyl,
IL7R, and were similarly negative for lineage- specific markers such as LYVE1, CD3G,
PECAMI (CD3 1), CD34, FCGR2B, and PTPRC (CD45). It has previously been
reported that MSCs do not express PD-L2, nor can this protein be induced by exposure
to inflammatory cytokine IFNg.
Morphological characteristics of LSSCs
         Cultured LSSCs grown in alpha-MEM supplemented with fetal calf serum
showed fibroblast-like morphology (FIG. 14). They often exhibit long processes,
                                              36

lamellopodia, filopodia, ruffled leading edges, and focal adhesions. Moreover, LSSCs
isolated from lymph node and tonsil are phenotypically similar (FIG. 19).
FRCs protect against sepsis in 2 difference mouse models when administered at
therapeutic time points.
         Both in the sterile sepsis model and in the cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)
sepsis model, FRCs imparted a significant survival benefit (Fig. 16). Fig. 16E shows
reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines in the blood of FRC-treated mice. These
inflammatory cytokines are usually associated with the innate immune system. Thus,
FRCs interact with the innate immune system in sepsis.
FRCs protect against colitis mortality.
         Colitis was induced by injecting purified naive T cells into immunodeficient
mice. Allogeneic FRCs were administered at 2 weeks, after the mice started showing
signs of illness and losing significant weight (a therapeutic timecourse). FRCs were
injected twice weekly from week 2 to week 6 compared to saline-treated controls, and
survival was monitored. FRCs imparted a significant survival benefit (Fig. 17).
Human LSSCs secrete soluble cytokine factors and cells isolated from lymph node and
tonsil show comparable levels of T cell suppression via soluble factors.
         Cultured human LSSCs were shown to secrete a number of soluble cytokine
factors (FIG. 18). LSSCs isolated from lymph node and tonsil showed comparable levels
of T cell suppression via soluble factors (FIG. 20).
Discussion
         Techniques routinely employed in immunology and cell biology, such as
generating viable single cell suspensions of reproducible composition from primary
tissues, have created difficulties when applied to lymph node stroma. As such, histology
and whole-organ PCR, or in vivo systems involving lymphocytic readouts have been the
field's standard. These have led to several important advances regarding the role of
lymph node stromal cell subsets in steady-state tolerance and immunity; however, there
are many unexplored questions of direct biological and medical relevance. We believe
                                              37

that modern immunological and cell biological techniques, refined and adapted for use
with these rare and delicate cell types, will be required to answer these.
         Highlighting this unmet need, DN stroma in particular remain almost completely
undefined. Several groups have now reported the existence of this non-hematopoietic
stromal cell subset (which may or may not be homogeneous) (Link et al., 2007, Cohen
et al., 2010, Fletcher et al., 2010) but despite comprising >10% of the lymph node
stromal niche and harboring an Aire-expressing cell type (Cohen et al., 2010, Fletcher et
al., 2010), it has remained almost entirely uncharacterized. Such fundamental
characteristics as morphology, lineage, surface phenotype, and function are unreported.
These deficits speak directly to the difficulties inherent in studying lymph node stromal
cells.
         One such difficulty in studying DN cells is that dying or poorly stained
lymphocytes appear CD45 low or negative, appearing in the stromal cell gate with the
same phenotype (CD3 1-podoplanin-) as DN stroma. This greatly skews the proportions
of true stromal subsets, making it difficult to tie down even the most basic proportional
composition of the lymph node stromal niche. Indeed, since stroma comprise only 1-2%
of lymph node cells, non-viable lymphocytes routinely outnumber stroma even in a
highly viable (>95% live) single cell suspension. In our experience, inclusion of a dead
cell stain such as propidium iodide, does not adequately remove cells that appear CD45
low post-digestion.
         For this reason, we felt that the key to reproducible isolation of stroma lay in
developing a low-mortality enzymatic digestion protocol. Using a combination of
dispase, DNase I and collagenase P, we routinely isolated a high number of stromal cells
with >95% viability. This also allowed us to compare each stromal subset across
individual mice and humans, and to successfully sort rare subsets, including DN cells
and MRCs, which will be the subject of further study. It has not yet been possible to
identify DN stroma by histology, since no unique or differentially expressed surface
markers are reported. However, the sorting strategy described herein could be used to
perform the unbiased array-based approaches required to unmask this rare subset.
         Similarly, these methods allowed us to isolate the four major populations of
human lymph node stromal cells directly from primary tissue, opening the door for
sophisticated clinical and pre-clinical studies. It is now well established that mouse
lymph node stromal cells express many clinically relevant self-antigens and directly
                                               38

present these to T cells to tolerize them (Lee et al., 2007, Nichols et al., 2007, Gardner et
al., 2008, Magnusson et al., 2008, Cohen et al., 2010, Fletcher et al., 2010). It is possible
that the same mechanisms may be at play in humans. Studies have shown that FRCs and
LECs retain the ability to present PTAs to naive T cells while in culture, mimicking
interactions seen in vivo (Cohen et al., 2010, Fletcher et al., 2010), though it is unclear
whether this is due to continual transcription of the PTAs in question, or retention of
peptide-MHC. These techniques could be used to address this and many other
outstanding questions pertaining to human lymph node biology.
         Further, the development of 3D culture systems for lymph nodes will allow the
creation of highly controlled experimental systems mimicking conditions and
interactions in vivo. We found that DCs and lymphocytes readily and preferentially
migrated on FRC networks in vitro, as has been observed in vivo. Such techniques are
particularly applicable to studies with human cells.
         We found strikingly low variation in stromal cell subsets between young male
age-matched C57B1/6 mice. In testing whether cross-talk between lymphocytes and
stroma was required for the expansion of particular stromal subsets, we found that FRCs,
LECs, BECs and DN stroma were present at normal proportions in Rag-'- mice, showing
no requirement for T or B cells in their development or expansion. The MRC
(MadCAM-1)        stromal subset has not previously been isolated for flow cytometric
analysis, and we found that MRCs formed a subset within the podoplanin* CD3 - FRC
gate. While MRCs show similarities to FRCs, expressing VCAM- 1 and ICAM- 1, and
secreting ECM components such as laminin, they additionally produce high amounts of
CXCL13 and can be identified through expression of MadCAM-1 (Katakai et al., 2008)
         Strikingly, the number of MRCs was significantly reduced in Rag-'- mice. The
level of MadCAM protein per cell was also lower. By histology, MadCAM+ MRCs are
visible in skin-draining Rag-'- lymph nodes (Katakai et al., 2008), however numerical and
quantitative flow cytometric analysis of MadCAM expression and MRC numbers has not
previously been possible. These data suggest that lymphocytes are indeed required for
normal development of MRCs. Interestingly, LECs from Rag-'- mice also developed into
MadCAM+ cells at reduced proportions, and showed less protein per cell. It is as yet
unclear whether MRCs and MadCAM+ LECs fail to expand normally in Rag-'- mice, or
just fail to upregulate MadCAM. The role for MadCAM+ LECs is also undescribed.
                                              39

        Since MRCs show the same phenotype as LTo cells (Katakai et al., 2008), which
construct the lymph node downstream of lymphotoxin signaling and an NF-KB2
transcription program (Mebius, 2003, Coles et al., 2010), it has been postulated that
MRCs may play a role in post-natal maintenance or regeneration of the lymph node
stroma (Katakai et al., 2008). Our results show that normal expansion and / or maturation
of MadCAM+ MRCs is not required for normal expansion of FRCs, BECs and DN
stroma. However, further functional studies would be required to determine if MRC
function (expression of chemokines, for example) and MadCAM expression were
inexorably linked.
        An unexpected finding was that the FRCs of skin-draining and mesenteric lymph
nodes significantly differed in proportion, number, and transcriptional profile. We found
significantly fewer FRCs in mesenteric lymph nodes, containing reduced expression of
several important cytokines and chemokines: IL6, IL7, BAFF, CXCL9, CXCL1O, IL1
receptor accessory protein (ILIRAP), Activin receptor IIA, VEGFa, LIF, and cKIT
ligand. Statistically, the pathway analysis showed that these genes were highly unlikely
to have clustered by chance. It will be interesting to determine whether these changes
occur as the result of a congenital developmental difference, or following exposure to
different inflammatory cues, such as differences in antigen exposure frequency or dose.
Skin-draining and mesenteric lymph nodes are exposed to markedly different
microenvironmental stimuli. Unless skin barriers are breached, FRCs residing in skin
draining lymph nodes from this study could be expected to encounter large doses of
microbe-sourced antigen relatively rarely. Mesenteric FRCs, however, are constantly
exposed to a barrage of pathogen-associated molecular patterns through normal
functioning of the gut, with important steady-state roles in Treg induction and oral
tolerance (Hadis et al., 2011). These day-to-day factors are reasonably be expected to
alter expression profile, to unknown effect.
        Developmental differences in skin-draining lymph nodes and mesenteric lymph
nodes have been reported: a full complement of mesenteric lymph nodes are present in
Cxc113-/- and Cxcr5-/- mice, while many skin-draining lymph nodes are missing, or
develop variably in particular locations (Ansel et al., 2000). Similarly, Ltb-/- mice
develop mesenteric lymph nodes (albeit abnormally) but lack many skin-draining lymph
nodes (Koni et al., 1997). Since lymph node development is initiated during
embryogenesis, these results suggest that cytokines capable of compensating for
                                              40

CXCL13 or LTB are more highly available in prenatal mesenteric lymph nodes than
skin-draining lymph nodes. Similarly, a lower proportion of presumptive lymph node
organizer cells are present in the skin-draining lymph nodes of neonates compared with
mesenteric lymph nodes (Cupedo et al. J Imm 2004). Finally, after transplanting skin
draining lymph nodes to the mesentery, it was found that MadCAM- BECs do not adopt
the mesenteric MadCAM+ phenotype, suggesting the difference is developmental and
not a result of exposure to gut-derived antigens (Ahrendt et al., 2008). A recent study
also interestingly suggests that stroma from transplanted peripheral and mesenteric
lymph nodes may differ in their ability to induce oral tolerance, assuming that carryover
hematopoietic cells, progressively replaced by donor cells after transplant, are not
influential (Buettner et al., 2011).
        In the skin-draining lymph nodes of 6 week old mice, we found higher expression
of several cytokines with known roles in lymph nodes. IL6, upregulated 6-fold in FRCs
from skin-draining lymph nodes, is a cytokine subject to complex regulation. When
produced early in the immune response after exposure to pro-inflammatory IL1, IL6 is
potently immunostimulatory, but can also exert anti-inflammatory functions through
dampening of TNFa and IL-I signaling, and upregulation of IL1O. IL1O was not
expressed by stroma (data not shown). Instead, we found >3-fold upregulation of the IL1
receptor accessory protein (ILiRap) in skin-draining lymph nodes, suggesting that skin
draining lymph node FRCs possess the capacity to increase IL6 production early in
infection. Accordingly, during steady-state, FRCs from skin-draining lymph nodes also
expressed high levels of ILIRI, the high-affinity binding partner of ILiRap, and did not
express the decoy analog ILl-RN (Dinarello, 1996) (data not shown). Supporting these
findings, we have previously reported that FRCs respond to TLR3 signaling within hours
(Fletcher et al., 2010), suggesting that FRCs respond swiftly to infection. It is also worth
noting that IL6 is produced in an anti-inflammatory capacity by smooth muscle cells
following stretch (Pedersen, 2006), as a means of phosphorylating PDGF-receptors and
stimulating cell contraction (Hu et al., 1998, Zampetaki et al., 2005). Similarly, in
dermal myofibroblasts, IL6 modulates alpha smooth muscle actin to enhance contraction
and wound closure (Gallucci et al., 2006). Like myofibroblasts, FRCs are highly
contractile cells expressing large amounts of alpha smooth muscle actin ( (Link et al.,
2007) and data not shown). IL6 shares a receptor with LIF, which was also upregulated
in FRCs from skin-draining lymph nodes. Like IL6, LIF is upregulated in contracting
                                              41

myocytes as a means of inducing autocrine or paracrine muscle cell proliferation. IL6,
ILiRap and LIF represented the 3 genes most upregulated by FRCs from skin-draining
lymph nodes in the identified network.
         With direct relevance for lymphocyte function, we found that IL7 and BAFF
were upregulated by more than twofold in skin-draining FRCs. IL7 is a known product
of FRCs, and functions to maintain naive T cells (Link et al., 2007). BAFF is a potent
survival factor and costimulatory activator for B cells. In secondary lymphoid organs, it
is known to be produced by non-hematopoietic FDCs, but has not previously been
reported in FRCs. However, the expression of BAFF by stromal cells outside lymph
nodes is well-reported, though this seems to require chronic inflammation and has not
previously been linked to steady-state stroma (Mackay et al., 2009). Our cell sorts did
not contain FDC contamination, since during transcriptional analysis, we found no
evidence for expression of Fcy receptors, and <1% of lymph node stromal cells stain
positive for FDC-M1 or CD35 (data not shown). FDCs are confined to the B cell follicle,
while FRCs surround, and occasionally extend into the B cell follicle. However, both cell
types are thought to develop from a common precursor (Mebius, 2003). This result
supports and extends the list of noted similarities between these cell types.
         Strikingly, our results indicated that CXCL9 and CXCL10 are expressed by
FRCs in skin-draining and mesenteric lymph nodes. These chemokines both signal
through CXCR3, expressed by activated T cells, B cells and NK cells, and their
transcription is upregulated by IFNy, IFNa, and other proinflammatory stimuli (Muller
et al., 2010). While a role for CXCL10 in lymph nodes during steady-state has not been
described, during some infections CXCL10 has an important role retaining Thi
lymphocytes in lymph nodes, a mechanism which encourages newly activated T cells to
also become ThI, creating a polarized, microbe-appropriate response (Yoneyama et al.,
2002). However, to date, CXCL10 production has only been identified in mature DCs
within lymph nodes (Yoneyama et al., 2002). These data show that CXCL10 mRNA is
also expressed by steady-state FRCs, with unknown function.
         CXCL9 is poorly studied, but has been observed in dendritic cells from cancer
associated lymphoid tissues and draining lymph nodes (Ohtani et al., 2009), Any role in
steady-state regulation of cell migration in lymph nodes is unreported.
         Interestingly, FRCs from both mesenteric and skin-draining lymph nodes
expressed genes involved in signaling to endothelial cells. It is known that FRCs are the
                                               42

primary producers of VEGF in skin-draining lymph nodes under steady-state conditions
(Chyou et al., 2008). Surprisingly we found that FRCs from skin-draining lymph nodes
expressed higher levels of VEGFa than those from mesenteric lymph nodes. Indeed,
mesenteric lymph nodes showed upregulation of a relatively short list of genes compared
to skin-draining lymph nodes, and the results did not map to a functional pathway when
our robust statistical correction for multiple hypotheses was performed. However, we
observed upregulation of known gut-related genes such as Nkx2-3, required for
MadCAM expression and lymphocyte segregation in mesenteric lymph nodes (Pabst et
al., 2000); as well as upregulation of Lrat, Tgm2, MeisI and Pltp. These genes are either
involved in the retinoic acid metabolism cycle, or upregulated by retinoic acid,
(Matsuura et al., 1993, Cao et al., 2002, Galdones et al., 2006, Rebe et al., 2009) which is
processed in mesenteric lymph nodes to impose a gut-specific homing phenotype on T
cells (Iwata, 2009). We also found expression of several vasodilators (Vipr2, Itih4,
Nprl) and a vasoconstrictor (Agt) suggesting that FRCs actively communicate with
lymph node blood vessels. Similarly, upregulation of genes that induce neurite outgrowth
(Efna5, gprl26, Tmem35 and Ngf) suggests a potential role in maintaining the normal
sympathetic innervation of the lymph node (Panuncio et al., 1999). Further studies
would be required to validate these results.
        Taken together, altered expression of cytokines and chemokines in skin-draining
lymph nodes suggests a novel picture of microenvironmental regulation by FRCs.
Expression of BAFF and CXCR3 ligands imply previously unreported mechanisms of
cross-talk with the hematopoietic system. Similarly, the upregulation of IL-6, ILiRap,
and LIF suggests that skin-draining lymph node FRCs may be more contractile, and/or
actively dividing faster than their mesenteric lymph node counterparts, similarly
influencing endothelial cells to keep pace by transcribing increased VEGFU.
        These transcriptional events may not be occurring equally across all FRCs,
however. Lymph nodes contain a number of poorly understood FRC microniches. The
best studied of these is the cortical T cell zone FRC, (sometimes called a TRC), which
produces IL-7, CCL19, CCL21, maintains the conduit system, and is used as a scaffold
for the migration of DCs, T cells and B cells. However, fibroblastic gp38+CD3 - cells
exist throughout the lymph node: in the subcapsular region abutting B cell follicles; as
pericytes; and throughout the medulla. It is not yet possible to differentiate between these
different FRC types, and the differences between skin-draining lymph nodes and
                                               43

mesenteric lymph nodes may involve a change in their proportion, if they differentially
express the cytokines and chemokines identified.
        Together, these data represent a comprehensive catalog of techniques adapted for
lymph node stromal cells.
Table 1: A sample range of low-pressure stromal sorting parameters for 100 im tip in the
FACSAria and FACSAria Iu (BD Biosciences). n=4-8 independent experiments
     Sort Parameter              FACSAria           FACSAria IIu
        Frequency                 23.1-25.9             19.2-21.6
        Amplitude                 24.0-45.6             8.6-13.5
           Phase                      0-3                   0
        Attenuation                   On                   Off
        Drop Delay               18.56-20.81          15.96-17.92
         First Drop                189-295              200-243
        Target Gap                   6-10                   10
Table 2: Enzyme sensitivity of surface markers used to characterize non
hematopoietic lymph node stromal cells. Cultured or freshly isolated stroma were
incubated with enzymes for 10 mins, then surface protein expression tested by flow
cytometry. Data represent n=3 independent experiments
     Surface Marker              Collagenase P              Dispase         Trypsin
           CD31                          +                     +
           CD40                          +                     +               +/
           CD44                          +                     +               +
           CD45                          +                     +               +
           CD80                          +                     +
          CD140a                         +                     +
          ICAM-1                         +                     +               +
            Gp38                         +                     +               +
           Thy-i                         +                     +               +/
           PD-Li                         +                     +               +
            Sca-I                        +                     +               +
           Lyve-I                        +                     +               +
         VCAM-1                          +                     +               +
         MadCAM                          +                     +               +
+ Surface marker present (not sensitive)
 - Surface marker absent (sensitive)
+/- Surface marker partially cleaved (partially sensitive)
Table 3: Genes upregulated in FRCs from mesenteric lymph nodes compared to
FRCs from skin-draining lymph nodes, grouped by functional similarity. Gene
expression of sorted FRCs from skin-draining or mesenteric lymph nodes was compared
                                             44

using microarray analysis. Gene selection was based on expression (mean expression of
>120 in either SLN or MLN), a low coefficient of variance between replicates (<0.05),
fold-change (at least 2 fold increased in mesenteric lymph node FRCs compared to skin
draining FRCs) and P-value (* <0.05; **<0.01; student's T test). Genes were grouped
based on literature keyword searches.
             Functional group                  Gene      Fold-change   P-value
  Regulation of cell growth in fibroblasts    Wnt2b          8.13         **
                                               Slit2         6.06         **
                                               Sfrp4         3.13         **
                                              Wfdcl          2.77         **
                                               Mest          2.60          *
                                              Dhcr24         2.48         **
                                               Fgfr3         2.39         **
                                              Igfbp6         2.20          *
                                                Figf         2.17         **
                                              Bmp2           2.12         **
      Induced by gut-specific factors         Nkx2-3         5.75         **
                                               Lrat          4.67         **
                                               Tgm2          2.66         **
                                              Enpp3          2.48          *
                                              Kcnn3          2.24          *
                                              Meis]          2.13         **
                                                Pltp         2.07         **
     Extra-cellular matrix or cell-cell       Mfap5          3.38          *
           junction interactions              Hmcn2          2.69         **
                                               Gpc3          2.34         **
                                               Itih4         2.34         **
                                              Cldn]O         2.32         **
                                             Coll4a]         2.26         **
                                               Loxi]         2.25         **
                                                Cip          2.01          *
     Endothelial or pericyte cross-talk        Ptgs1         3.17         **
                                               Vipr2         2.92         **
                                              Smoc2          2.79          *
                                               Itih4         2.34         **
                                               Npr]          2.33          *
                                                Figf         2.17         **
                                                Agt          2.03         **
            Neuronal cross-talk               Efna5          2.58         **
                                              Gpr]26         2.22         **
                                             Tmem35          2.04         **
                                                Ngf          2.00         **
                                            45

         This invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and
the arrangement of components set forth in the above description or illustrated in the
drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of
being carried out in various ways. Also, the phraseology and terminology used herein is
for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of
"including," "comprising," or "having," "containing", "involving", and variations
thereof herein, is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof
as well as additional items.
References
Ahrendt, M., Hammerschmidt, S. I., Pabst, 0., Pabst, R., and Bode, U. (2008). Stromal
cells confer lymph node-specific properties by shaping a unique microenvironment
influencing local immune responses. J Immunol 181, 1898-1907.
Ansel, K. M., Ngo, V. N., Hyman, P. L., Luther, S. A., Forster, R., Sedgwick, J. D.,
Browning, J. L., Lipp, M., and Cyster, J. G. (2000). A chemokine-driven positive
feedback loop organizes lymphoid follicles. Nature 406, 309-314.
Bajenoff, M., Egen, J. G., Koo, L. Y., Laugier, J. P., Brau, F., Glaichenhaus, N., and
Germain, R. N. (2006). Stromal cell networks regulate lymphocyte entry, migration and
territoriality in lymph nodes. Immunity 25, 989-1001.
Buettner, M., Pabst, R., and Bode, U. (2011). Lymph node stromal cells strongly
influence immune response suppression. Eur J Immunol 41, 624-633.
Cao, G., Beyer, T. P., Yang, X. P., Schmidt, R. J., Zhang, Y., Bensch, W. R., Kauffman,
R. F., Gao, H., Ryan, T. P., Liang, Y., Eacho, P. I., and Jiang, X. C. (2002). Phospholipid
transfer protein is regulated by liver x receptors in vivo. J Biol Chem 277, 39561-39565.
Chyou, S., Ekland, E. H., Carpenter, A. C., Tzeng, T. C., Tian, S., Michaud, M., Madri,
J. A., and Lu, T. T. (2008). Fibroblast-type reticular stromal cells regulate the lymph
node vasculature. J Immunol 181, 3887-3896.
                                               46

Cohen, J. N., Guidi, C. J., Tewalt, E. F., Qiao, H., Rouhani, S. J., Ruddell, A., Farr, A.
G., Tung, K. S., and Engelhard, V. H. (2010). Lymph node-resident lymphatic
endothelial cells mediate peripheral tolerance via aire-independent direct antigen
presentation. J Exp Med 207, 681-688.
Coles, M., Kioussis, D., and Veiga-Fernandes, H. (2010). Cellular and molecular
requirements in lymph node and peyer's patch development. Prog Mol Biol Transl Sci
92, 177-205.
Cyster, J. G., Ansel, K. M., Reif, K., Ekland, E. H., Hyman, P. L., Tang, H. L., Luther, S.
A., and Ngo, V. N. (2000). Follicular stromal cells and lymphocyte homing to follicles.
Immunol Rev 176, 181-193.
Dennis, G., Jr., Sherman, B. T., Hosack, D. A., Yang, J., Gao, W., Lane, H. C., and
Lempicki, R. A. (2003). David: Database for annotation, visualization, and integrated
discovery. Genome Biol 4, P3.
Dinarello, C. A. (1996). Biologic basis for interleukin-1 in disease. Blood 87, 2095-2147.
Eikelenboom, P., Nassy, J. J., Post, J., Versteeg, J. C., and Langevoort, H. L. (1978). The
histogenesis of lymph nodes in rat and rabbit. Anat Rec 190, 201-215.
Fletcher, A. L., Lukacs-Komek, V., Reynoso, E. D., Pinner, S. E., Bellemare-Pelletier,
A., Curry, M. S., Collier, A. R., Boyd, R. L., and Turley, S. J. (2010). Lymph node
fibroblastic reticular cells directly present peripheral tissue antigen under steady-state
and inflammatory conditions. J Exp Med 207, 689-697.
Fletcher, A. L., Malhotra, D., and Turley, S. J. (2011). Lymph node stroma broaden the
peripheral tolerance paradigm. Trends Immunol 32, 12-18.
Galdones, E., Lohnes, D., and Hales, B. F. (2006). Role of retinoic acid receptors alphal
and gamma in the response of murine limbs to retinol in vitro. Birth Defects Res A Clin
Mol Teratol 76, 39-45.
                                               47

Gallucci, R. M., Lee, E. G., and Tomasek, J. J. (2006). 11-6 modulates alpha-smooth
muscle actin expression in dermal fibroblasts from il-6-deficient mice. J Invest Dermatol
126, 561-568.
Gardner, J. M., Devoss, J. J., Friedman, R. S., Wong, D. J., Tan, Y. X., Zhou, X.,
Johannes, K. P., Su, M. A., Chang, H. Y., Krummel, M. F., and Anderson, M. S. (2008).
Deletional tolerance mediated by extrathymic aire-expressing cells. Science 321, 843
847.
Hadis, U., Wahl, B., Schulz, 0., Hardtke-Wolenski, M., Schippers, A., Wagner, N.,
Muller, W., Sparwasser, T., Forster, R., and Pabst, 0. (2011). Intestinal tolerance
requires gut homing and expansion of foxp3+ regulatory t cells in the lamina propria.
Immunity 34, 237-246.
Hu, Y., Bock, G., Wick, G., and Xu,     Q. (1998). Activation of pdgf receptor alpha in
vascular smooth muscle cells by mechanical stress. Faseb J 12, 1135-1142.
Irizarry, R. A., Hobbs, B., Collin, F., Beazer-Barclay, Y. D., Antonellis, K. J., Scherf, U.,
and Speed, T. P. (2003). Exploration, normalization, and summaries of high density
oligonucleotide array probe level data. Biostatistics 4, 249-264.
Iwata, M. (2009). Retinoic acid production by intestinal dendritic cells and its role in t
cell trafficking. Semin Immunol 21, 8-13.
Junt, T., Scandella, E., and Ludewig, B. (2008). Form follows function: Lymphoid tissue
microarchitecture in antimicrobial immune defence. Nat Rev Immunol 8, 764-775.
Katakai, T., Hara, T., Lee, J. H., Gonda, H., Sugai, M., and Shimizu, A. (2004a). A novel
reticular stromal structure in lymph node cortex: An immuno-platform for interactions
among dendritic cells, t cells and b cells. Int Immunol 16, 1133-1142.
                                              48

Katakai, T., Hara, T., Sugai, M., Gonda, H., and Shimizu, A. (2004b). Lymph node
fibroblastic reticular cells construct the stromal reticulum via contact with lymphocytes.
J Exp Med 200, 783-795.
Katakai, T., Suto, H., Sugai, M., Gonda, H., Togawa, A., Suematsu, S., Ebisuno, Y.,
Katagiri, K., Kinashi, T., and Shimizu, A. (2008). Organizer-like reticular stromal cell
layer common to adult secondary lymphoid organs. J Immunol 181, 6189-6200.
Koni, P. A., Sacca, R., Lawton, P., Browning, J. L., Ruddle, N. H., and Flavell, R. A.
(1997). Distinct roles in lymphoid organogenesis for lymphotoxins alpha and beta
revealed in lymphotoxin beta-deficient mice. Immunity 6, 491-500.
Lee, J. W., Epardaud, M., Sun, J., Becker, J. E., Cheng, A. C., Yonekura, A. R., Heath, J.
K., and Turley, S. J. (2007). Peripheral antigen display by lymph node stroma promotes t
cell tolerance to intestinal self. Nat Immunol 8, 181-190.
Link, A., Hardie, D. L., Favre, S., Britschgi, M. R., Adams, D. H., Sixt, M., Cyster, J. G.,
Buckley, C. D., and Luther, S. A. (2011). Association of t-zone reticular networks and
conduits with ectopic lymphoid tissues in mice and humans. Am J Pathol 178, 1662
1675.
Link, A., Vogt, T. K., Favre, S., Britschgi, M. R., Acha-Orbea, H., Hinz, B., Cyster, J.
G., and Luther, S. A. (2007). Fibroblastic reticular cells in lymph nodes regulate the
homeostasis of naive t cells. Nat Immunol 8, 1255-1265.
Luther, S. A., Tang, H. L., Hyman, P. L., Farr, A. G., and Cyster, J. G. (2000).
Coexpression of the chemokines elc and slc by t zone stromal cells and deletion of the
elc gene in the plt/plt mouse. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 97, 12694-12699.
Mackay, F., and Schneider, P. (2009). Cracking the baff code. Nat Rev Immunol 9, 491
502.
                                               49

Magnusson, F. C., Liblau, R. S., von Boehmer, H., Pittet, M. J., Lee, J. W., Turley, S. J.,
and Khazaie, K. (2008). Direct presentation of antigen by lymph node stromal cells
protects against cd8 t-cell-mediated intestinal autoimmunity. Gastroenterology 134,
1028-1037.
Matsuura, T., and Ross, A. C. (1993). Regulation of hepatic lecithin: Retinol
acyltransferase activity by retinoic acid. Arch Biochem Biophys 301, 221-227.
Mebius, R. E. (2003). Organogenesis of lymphoid tissues. Nat Rev Immunol 3, 292-303.
Mei SH, Haitsma JJ, Dos Santos CC, Deng Y, Lai PF, Slutsky AS, Liles WC, Stewart
DJ. Mesenchymal stem cells reduce inflammation while enhancing bacterial clearance
and improving survival in sepsis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2010;182(8):1047-57.
Muller, M., Carter, S., Hofer, M. J., and Campbell, I. L. (2010). Review: The chemokine
receptor cxcr3 and its ligands cxcl9, cxcl10 and cxc1l 1 in neuroimmunity--a tale of
conflict and conundrum. Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol 36, 368-387.
N6meth K, Leelahavanichkul A, Yuen PS, Mayer B, Parmelee A, Doi K, Robey PG,
Leelahavanichkul K, Koller BH, Brown JM, Hu X, Jelinek I, Star RA, Mezey E. Bone
marrow stromal cells attenuate sepsis via prostaglandin E(2)-dependent reprogramming
of host macrophages to increase their interleukin- 10 production. Nat Med. 2009;
15(1):42-9
Nichols, L. A., Chen, Y., Colella, T. A., Bennett, C. L., Clausen, B. E., and Engelhard,
V. H. (2007). Deletional self-tolerance to a melanocyte/melanoma antigen derived from
tyrosinase is mediated by a radio-resistant cell in peripheral and mesenteric lymph nodes.
J Immunol 179, 993-1003.
Ohtani, H., Jin, Z., Takegawa, S., Nakayama, T., and Yoshie, 0. (2009). Abundant
expression of cxcl9 (mig) by stromal cells that include dendritic cells and accumulation
of cxcr3+ t cells in lymphocyte-rich gastric carcinoma. J Pathol 217, 21-31.
                                              50

Pabst, 0., Forster, R., Lipp, M., Engel, H., and Arnold, H. H. (2000). Nkx2.3 is required
for madcam-1 expression and homing of lymphocytes in spleen and mucosa-associated
lymphoid tissue. Embo J 19, 2015-2023.
Panuncio, A. L., De La Pena, S., Gualco, G., and Reissenweber, N. (1999). Adrenergic
innervation in reactive human lymph nodes. J Anat 194 ( Pt 1), 143-146.
Pedersen, B. K. (2006). The anti-inflammatory effect of exercise: Its role in diabetes and
cardiovascular disease control. Essays Biochem 42, 105-117.
Rebe, C., Raveneau, M., Chevriaux, A., Lakomy, D., Sberna, A. L., Costa, A., Bessede,
G., Athias, A., Steinmetz, E., Lobaccaro, J. M., Alves, G., Menicacci, A., Vachenc, S.,
Solary, E., Gambert, P., and Masson, D. (2009). Induction of transglutaminase 2 by a
liver x receptor/retinoic acid receptor alpha pathway increases the clearance of apoptotic
cells by human macrophages. Circ Res 105, 393-401.
Scandella, E., Bolinger, B., Lattmann, E., Miller, S., Favre, S., Littman, D. R., Finke, D.,
Luther, S. A., Junt, T., and Ludewig, B. (2008). Restoration of lymphoid organ integrity
through the interaction of lymphoid tissue-inducer cells with stroma of the t cell zone.
Nat Immunol 9, 667-675.
Sixt, M., Kanazawa, N., Selg, M., Samson, T., Roos, G., Reinhardt, D. P., Pabst, R.,
Lutz, M. B., and Sorokin, L. (2005). The conduit system transports soluble antigens from
the afferent lymph to resident dendritic cells in the t cell area of the lymph node.
Immunity 22, 19-29.
Warnock, R. A., Askari, S., Butcher, E. C., and von Andrian, U. H. (1998). Molecular
mechanisms of lymphocyte homing to peripheral lymph nodes. J Exp Med 187, 205-216.
Willard-Mack, C. L. (2006). Normal structure, function, and histology of lymph nodes.
Toxicol Pathol 34, 409-424.
                                              51

Woolf, E., Grigorova, I., Sagiv, A., Grabovsky, V., Feigelson, S. W., Shulman, Z.,
Hartmann, T., Sixt, M., Cyster, J. G., and Alon, R. (2007). Lymph node chemokines
promote sustained t lymphocyte motility without triggering stable integrin adhesiveness
in the absence of shear forces. Nat Immunol 8, 1076-1086.
Yamagata, T., Mathis, D., and Benoist, C. (2004). Self-reactivity in thymic double
positive cells commits cells to a cd8 alpha alpha lineage with characteristics of innate
immune cells. Nat Immunol 5, 597-605.
Yip, L., Su, L., Sheng, D., Chang, P., Atkinson, M., Czesak, M., Albert, P. R., Collier, A.
R., Turley, S. J., Fathman, C. G., and Creusot, R. J. (2009). Deaf 1 isoforms control the
expression of genes encoding peripheral tissue antigens in the pancreatic lymph nodes
during type 1 diabetes. Nat Immunol 10, 1026-1033.
Yoneyama, H., Narumi, S., Zhang, Y., Murai, M., Baggiolini, M., Lanzavecchia, A.,
Ichida, T., Asakura, H., and Matsushima, K. (2002). Pivotal role of dendritic cell-derived
cxcl10 in the retention of t helper cell 1 lymphocytes in secondary lymph nodes. J Exp
Med 195, 1257-1266.
Zampetaki, A., Zhang, Z., Hu, Y., and Xu,     Q. (2005). Biomechanical stress induces il-6
expression in smooth muscle cells via ras/racl-p38 mapk-nf-kappab signaling pathways.
Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 288, H2946-2954.
        We claim:
                                              52

                                           CLAIMS
1.      A method for suppressing an immune response comprising:
        administering to a subject in need of such treatment isolated lymphoid tissue
derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC) in an amount effective to suppress the immune
response in the subject.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the LSSC that are administered to the subject are
ex vivo expanded cells.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the LSSC that are administered to the subject are
substantially free of non-LSSC.
4.      The method of claim 2, wherein at least 0.1 million LSSC/kg are administered to
the subject.
5.      The method of claim 3, wherein at least 1 million LSSC/kg are administered to
the subject.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the LSSC that are administered to
the subject are derived from lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, adenoids, and/or
Peyer's patches.
7.      The method claim 6, wherein the LSSC are on or in a two or three dimensional
framework implanted into the subject.
8.      The method of claim 6, wherein the LSSC are administered to the subject by
intravenous, intraperitoneal, intra-arterial, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injection or by
local administration into a lesion, organ, organ capsule, adiposity, or lymph node.
9.      The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the subject has an autoimmune or
inflammatory disease.
                                               53

10.       The method of claim 9, wherein the autoimmune or inflammatory disease is
selected from the group consisting of rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis,
inflammatory bowel disease, graft-versus-host disease, and sepsis.
11.       The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the LSSC are autologous,
allogeneic or xenogeneic with respect to the subject.
12.       A method of isolating lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC)
comprising digesting lymphoid tissue fragments using a combination of an enzyme mix
and agitation, and then collecting the LSSC.
13.       The method of claim 12, wherein digestion of the lymphoid tissue fragments is
performed in a series of steps comprising:
    (i)      incubating the lymphoid tissue fragments with an enzyme mix;
    (ii)     agitating the tissue using a pipette followed by incubation to allow large
             fragments to settle;
    (iii)    removing the supernatant and repeating steps (i) and (ii) until all fragments
             are digested; and
    wherein the LSSC are collected by pooling all supernatant fractions followed by
    centrifugation to obtain cell pellets.
14.       The method of claim 13, wherein the isolated LSSC are grown in a culture
medium comprising a basal cell culture medium supplemented with one or more of a
growth factor, serum, a platelet lysate, and an antibiotic.
15.       The method of claim 14, wherein the isolated LSSC are grown at a density of 1
10,000 cells/cm 2.
16.       The method of claim 14, wherein the isolated LSSC are grown at 0.1-21% partial
pressure of oxygen.
17.       The method of claim 14, wherein the LSSC are grown until the LSSC are
substantially free of non-LSSC.
                                               54

18.     The method of claim 14, wherein the LSSC are grown until the number of
stromal cells increases by at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 75%, 100%, 200%, or
more.
19.     The method of claim 12 or 13, wherein the enzyme mix comprises a culture
medium, Dispase, Collagenase and DNase I.
20.     The method of any one of claims 12-17, wherein the LSSC are derived from
lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, adenoids, or Peyer's patches.
21.     The method of claim 1, wherein the LSSC are isolated using the method of any
one of claims 12-20.
22.     A composition comprising isolated lymphoid tissue-derived suppressive stromal
cells (LSSC), wherein the LSSC are isolated using the methods of any one of claims 12
20.
23.     A pharmaceutical preparation comprising a composition of isolated lymphoid
tissue-derived suppressive stromal cells (LSSC).
24.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 23, wherein the LSSC are isolated by
treating lymphoid tissue fragments using one or more of a chemical, mechanical, and
electrical cell separation process, and then by collecting the LSSC.
25.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 24, wherein the isolated LSSC are
expanded through cell culture.
26.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-25, wherein the
isolated LSSC are ex vivo expanded cells.
27.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-26, wherein the isolated
LSSC are expanded by growing the collected cells until the LSSC are substantially free
of non-LSSC.
                                              55

28.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-27, wherein the isolated
LSSC co-express CD140a and PD-L2.
29.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-27, wherein the
isolated LSSC co-express CD140a and LTBR.
30.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-27, wherein the
isolated LSSC co-express CD140a , PD-L2 and LTBR.
31.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 28-30, wherein the isolated
LSSC express at least one other lymphoid marker selected from the group consisting of
PD-Li, Thy-1, MADCAM-1, MYH11, IL-7R, or ITGA7.
32.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-31, wherein the isolated
LSSC express at least one factor selected from the group consisting of IL-6, CCL19,
CCL21, or VEGF.
33.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-32, wherein the cells
are isolated from a species selected from the group consisting of human, non-human
primate, canine, feline, equine, swine, bovine, and rodent.
34.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-33, wherein the cells
suppress T cell proliferation in vitro.
35.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-34, wherein the LSSC
are isolated from lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, adenoids, or Peyer's patches
                                             56

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
