                                      ABSTRACT
A composite bridging ramp constructed from composite fibre reinforced plastic, non
metal light weight construction for the safe handling, and to provide a safe cross over
gaps and uneven height levels. It is designed to be handled by one operator for
positioning and capable of supporting the weight of the operator and equipment and
has built in anti-slip under surface with incorporated anti-slip walking surface.

         Editorial Note
             <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

COMPOSITE BRIDGING RAMP FRP (FIBER - REINFORCED
PLASTIC)
Composite Bridging Ramp is manufactured from Composite Fibre
Reinforced Plastic, non-metallic and light weight construction,
designed to support the weight, and or live load of equipment and
operator crossing over an open gap.
The crossover arrangement of different height levels and gap
openings, is necessary to cross over in a safe manner, and sometimes
while the operator is lifting/supporting items and or wheeling over
equipment.
The Composite Bridging Ramp is designed to be of lightweight
construction for safe handling by one operator, while not affecting
its structural integrity and minim safe working load limits (Operator
and Equipment, Live Load handling).
Overall size of the composite ramp is within the length and width to
safely support the live load crossover with an opening of 300mm and
height elevation of 300mm, larger openings and different elevations
may be supported with a risk assessment conducted.
Anti-slip material is secured to the underside of the Composite Ramp
with additional anti slip material provided on the working surface for
the safe crossover, of the operator.
Reflective material is placed on the inner sides for identification of
width safe edge limits, in poor background lighting.
The Composite Bridging Ramp can be of different colours as specified
by the end user.

       Editorial Note
           <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

           Claim for Composite Bridging Ramp
The Composite Bridging Ramp claim:
Constructed from Composite Fibre Reinforced Plastic, non-metal
light weight construction for the safe handling, and to provide a safe
cross over gaps and uneven height levels.
Designed to be handled by one operator for positioning and capable
of supporting the weight of the operator and equipment.
Built in anti-slip under surface with incorporated anti-slip walking
surface.

