ABSTRACT
A modular electric vehicle system, allowing for the assembly of many different vehicle
configurations using a plurality of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules, including
at least two powered vehicle assembly modules in an assembled vehicle each of which
has self-contained drive and power systems and controls which can be connected
together by a central network bus on the vehicle. At least one of the powered vehicle
assembly modules will be a steering module, with the necessary additional controls
and components to steer the axle thereon and in turn steer the assembled vehicle.
The connection of the network bus and the modules would be done in an
interchangeable way so that different modules could be interchangeably placed in the
assembled vehicle. Various steering systems, control methodologies and vehicle
attachments are also disclosed.

WO 2014/194409               PCT/CA20141000488
                     14/17
               2           7
                 5 5
                     FIG. 14

      WO 2014/194409                                                                      PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                           1
                                          Modular Electric Vehicle System
 5 This invention is in the field of electric utility and service vehicles, and more specifically relates to a
   system of modular vehicle assembly components and modules which allows for the flexible assembly and
   maintenance of electric vehicles of different configurations using various modules with a standardized
   attachment method and central network bus.
10
   BACKGROUND:
   Electric vehicles have many different consumer and commercial applications. These vehicles typically
   consist of an electric motor drive as well as a rechargeable battery system - the vehicle is operated using
15 power stored within the batteries, and when the batteries require it they can be recharged. At a consumer
   level, society is seeing a proliferation of electric cars and other similar vehicles - many consumers are
   motivated to purchase or drive an electric vehicle as an environmental choice, to minimize vehicle
   emissions.
20 In commercial applications, there are environmental as well as other factors which in certain cases favor
   the use of electric vehicles over those using internal combustion engines and the like. For example in a
   closed working environment it is often desired to use electric vehicles to minimize pollution of the
   working environment with internal combustion emissions - ventilation problems and costs are minimized.
   It is oflen desired to minimize the safety risk factors within the working environment by, for example,
25 minimizing the presence of combustible fuel and similar materials within the environment. One of the
   additional issues with the use of electric vehicles in industrial environments is the simplicity of repair.
   Making electric vehicles available which were modular in nature to optimize the on-site repair aspects of
   their deployment would enhance the attractiveness of this type of a platform for industrial users.
30 One of the other limitations to date in the adoption of electric vehicles in mining and other industrial
   applications is that each time a vehicle was required with custom configuration or options it often
   required significant actual custom manufacture. The variety of electric vehicles which were available for
                                           SUBSTITUTE     SHEET   (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                           2
     use in these types of applications was limited - a limited number of predetermined payloads or
     configurations would potentially be manufactured. Purchasers desiring equipment of customized size or
     functionality were often left with either significant costs to manufacture on a custom basis or without the
     ability to procure a more fulsome menu of vehicle configurations. A method of manufacture or vehicle
  5  configuration which would allow for the economical customization of electric vehicles for various users
     would it is believed to be desirable in the marketplace.
     Another limitation in terms of the size and flexibility of available configurations of electric vehicles
     which has potentially limited their commercial attraction to date, again particularly in industrial
10   applications, is the size limitation. There have been a number of reasons for this. Firstly, and particularly
     referencing mining applications again for example, many times in underground applications these
     vehicles are physically manipulated into position in their working environment by for example lowering
    them down a mine shaft. Points of ingress to the working environment are limited in size such that
    vehicles have typically been limited to a smaller size so that they can be lowered into the working
15  environment through such a shaft or opening. Where larger vehicles even the size of a conventional
    pickup truck have been required in such environments it has been known in the past to even see
    companies lower the vehicle into position down a mineshaft by cutting it into parts and then welding it
    back together once it is in position. Providing a type of electric vehicle which was modular in assembly
    would increase the possible available largest sizes of these types of vehicles, which would enhance their
20  commercial attractiveness to these types of customers. It is believed that providing a system of assembly
    of modular electric vehicles where the entire vehicle is broken down into a series of standardized
    modules, including frame and structure components through to drive and other systems would have
    commercial attraction and utility. Rendering the entire vehicle modular, rather than just attachable
    modular control components or system components on a unitary vehicle is a difference over the prior art.
25
    Developing the idea of an assembled modular vehicle which had the highest amount of flexibility in terms
    of configuration would require that the component modules as well as the overall vehicle contained the
    necessary controls and systems to adapt to their deployment in varying configurations. This is again
    something which has not to date been seen in the prior art and which would render the concept of a
30  modular electric vehicle more commercially attractive insofar as it would not only allow for the
    maximum number of flexible configurations of vehicles using a lower number of standardized component
    modules, but would also yield vehicles which were more robust from a field service perspective which
    again would enhance the commercial attraction of such a vehicle in industrial applications.
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEzET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                              PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                       3
      SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION:
      As outlined above the general concept of the present invention relates to the manufacture of a
   5  modular electric vehicle using interchangeable vehicle assembly modules. A modular electric
      vehicle which can be assembled from a plurality of modules will not only allow for maximum
      flexibility in terms of configurations which can be offered for sale, but also has practical benefits
      to the user in terms of the ability to disassemble and reassemble the vehicle for simplified service
      as well as for use in applications where minimal sized routes of ingress to the working areas are
 10   available.
      Our first embodiment of the invention is a modular electric vehicle which comprises a plurality
      of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules. The interchangeable vehicle assembly modules
      are connected by adjoining connecting module surfaces, and they have a central bus and a central
 is   network bus connected between and extending therethrough. At least two of the interchangeable
      vehicle assembly modules are powered vehicle assembly modules which comprise an axis
      extending between their two axial ends ramped in the direction of travel of the assembled
      vehicle, and having at least one connecting module surface at an axial end thereof for structural
     attachment to an adjoining connecting module surface of an adjacent vehicle assembly module.
20   A terminal vehicle assembly module with a powered axle may only have one connecting module
     surface for attachment to an adjacent module, versus a dual-ended module could be attached in
     the middle of a completed vehicle.
     Power vehicle assembly modules would also each include at least one electrically powered axle,
25   which had wheels, tracks with a light for engaging a surface and moving the assembled vehicle
     across a lit surface. The module would also include a central power bus which was connectable
     to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle assembly modules at the adjoining module surfaces,
     and a central network bus which was also connectable to the central network bus of adjacent
     vehicle assembly modules at the adjoining module surfaces. A single central network bus and a
30   single central power bus through the assembled vehicle allows for minimal complexity in
     controls and maximizing the ease of interchangeability of the modules as well as the ease of
                                           SUBSTITUTE SHzET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                             PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                       4
      repair. Each powered module would also include a module controller connected to and capable
      of controlling the at least one electrically powered axle and connected to the central network bus
      for communication with the module controllers of other vehicle assembly modules. By including
      a freestanding module controller within each module, again the interchangeability of modules in
  5   the configuration and assembly of different types of fished vehicles is maximized.
      At least one of the powered vehicle assembly modules would be steerable by interaction of its
      module controller with the at least one powered axle thereof. The axle could be made steerable
      in a number of different ways, either by providing for a central steering action on the entirety of
 10   a pass-through axle, or by mounting the wheel or track on each side of the module on a
      freestanding axle with a freestanding motor, so that the wheels could be individually controlled
      and steered. In certain circumstances it may also be the case that a steerable axle was not a
     powered axle and that is also contemplated within the scope of the present invention.
 15  Also in assembly of this finished modular electric vehicle there would be at least one
     interchangeable vehicle assembly module that included an electrical power source connected to
     the central power bus of the vehicle. The electrical power source would likely be batteries or
     some type of an electrical power subsystem which could either be permanently attached or
     removable. By use of a central power bus, a single electrical power source for the entire vehicle
20   could be used, rather than needing to build-in a separate electrical power source into each
     powered module.
     The vehicle would also include a vehicle controller connected to the vehicle and to the central
    network bus, which can control the movement and steering of the vehicle by interaction with the
25  module controllers on the powered vehicle assembly modules. Finally, the assembled modular
    electric vehicle would also include an operator interface which was connected to the vehicle
    controller or was integral with the vehicle controller, by which an operator could drive and steer
    the vehicle, or control any attached electrical accessory modules and the like.
30  The interchangeable vehicle assembly modules of the modular electric vehicle of the present
    invention could either be terminal vehicle assembly modules with one universal modular surface
                                          SUBSTITUTE SHEzET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                             PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                     5
      for attachment to adjacent modules, or they could be bidirectional modules insofar as they had
      two opposing connecting module surfaces each of which could be attached to an adjacent
      interchangeable vehicle assembly module. In the case of a terminal interchangeable vehicle
      assembly module, having only one connecting module surface, that module might include
  5  network terminators for the central network bus, or power terminators for the central power bus,
      such that the power or communications and control on the vehicle could be properly terminated
     at an end of the vehicle.
     In addition to the powered vehicle assembly modules, the modular electric vehicle of the present
 10  invention could also include at least one non-powered vehicle assembly module which had an
     axis extending between its two axial ends oriented in the direction of travel of the assembled
     vehicle and had at least one connecting module surface and an axial end thereof for structural
     attachment to an adjoining connecting module surface of an adjacent vehicle assembly module.
     In the case of a non-powered vehicle assembly module, there would again be a central power bus
 is  passing therethrough to the adjacent connecting module surfaces allowing for connection of the
     central power bus to the central power bus of an adjacent vehicle assembly module in the
     assembly of the vehicle, and similarly a central network bus would extend therethrough and be
     connectable to the central network bus of adjacent vehicle assembly modules of adjoining
     module surfaces as well.
20
    The modular electric vehicle might also include a wireless communications transceiver which
    was operatively connected to the central network bus which could allow for wireless connection
    or communication either between the interchangeable vehicle assembly modules, some accessory
    modules, or even between the completed modular electric vehicle and adjacent modular electric
25  vehicles for control purposes. The operator interface could be connected to the vehicle controller
    by wireless communication with a wireless communications transceiver. As outlined elsewhere
    herein, the operator interface and the vehicle controller could also be integrated into a single
    hardware and software unit, rather than two re-stemming components, and both such approaches
    are contemplated within the scope of the present invention. As outlined above it is explicitly
30  contemplated that the vehicle controller could control the movement and steering of at least one
    adjacent modular electric vehicle, via either a wired or wireless control network connection
                                        SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                              PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                     6
      between the vehicles. In such a circumstance, the modular electric vehicle might also include
     proximity sensors which could sense, and via the vehicle controller and central control network
     control, the proximity of the controlling modular electric vehicle to the at least adjacent modular
     electric vehicle being controlled.
  5
     At least one of the vehicle assembly modules could also include an accessory module attachment
     points for the attachment of at least one accessory module to the modular electric vehicle.
     Various types of accessory modules can be contemplated, including things such as an operator
     cab, a passenger seating module, a deck surface, a payload box or tank or even a lifting device or
 10  the like. There will be many different types of accessory modules or peripherals which can be
     conceived by those skilled in the art and design of industrial vehicle use and all such approaches
     are contemplated within the scope of the present invention insofar as any such attachment or
     peripheral could be rendered attachable to the remainder of the vehicle by the placement of a
     properly standardized pattern of accessory module attachment points thereon.
 15
     Attachable accessory modules could be used to in combination yield an operator cab, passenger
     seating module or other approach with respect to the vehicle. In other circumstances, a non
     powered or powered vehicle assembly module could itself comprise an operator cab, passenger
     seating module or other accessory integral therewith and all such approaches are also conceived
20   and contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention - insofar as any such integrated
     modules were created, any necessary connections with the central control network bus and the
     central power bus of the overall vehicle could be made as well in the manufacture of such
     modules.
25  In the circumstances where the system and the modular electric vehicle of the present invention
    was to be manufactured in a way that it could allow for the interchangeable attachment of
    various accessory modules, at least one of the vehicle assembly modules could also include at
    least one accessory module network connection for the connection of an accessory module to the
    central network bus of the assembled vehicle, or could also include at least one accessory module
30  power connection for the connection of at least one accessory module to the central power bus
    and to power those accessory modules. In the case of the attachment of accessory modules to the
                                        SUBSTITUTE SHEzET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                              PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                      7
      assembled vehicle, the vehicle controller could also be allowed to control any such powered
      accessory modules on the accessory modules via the central control network and the attendant
     modifications of the vehicle's software on the vehicle controller and associated operator
     interface.
  5
     The vehicle controller could be aware of the configuration of the vehicle assembly modules in
     the assembled vehicle either by the selection or programming of the finished configuration by an
     operator at the vehicle controller or the operator interface, or in other embodiments, the modules
     could be manufactured in such a way that the individual module controllers on the modules
 10  could provide appropriate feedback to the network and the vehicle controller such that the
     vehicle controller could pull the central control network on the vehicle in its assembled state to
     determine the configuration, ordering and placement of various types of vehicle assembly
     modules and accessory modules within the assembled vehicle and to either advise the operator of
     an inappropriate configuration if the configuration was not something that the vehicle controller
 is  held the appropriate software to control, or alternatively to select the appropriate control software
     and operator interface software for use with that particular configuration of the vehicle, Either a
     manual entry approach or a network polling approach to the selection of the appropriate control
     software is again contemplated within the scope of the present invention.
20  In order to maximize the speed and efficiency with which the vehicle could be assembled, the
    connections of the central network bus or the central power bus between adjacent vehicle
    assembly modules could be effected, in wired connection circumstances, using keyed cable
    connections to allow for immediate proper connection of cabling in the vehicle. As outlined
    above, the central network bus between the adjacent vehicle assembly modules could also be
25  connected or effected by wireless transceiver communication between the modules and the
    central network bus in a case where there was a wireless transceiver on the vehicle.
    Dependent upon the assembly of the overall modular electric vehicle, the operator interface
    could allow the operator to select from a plurality of user selectable steering modes depending
30  upon the basis on which it would be used.
                                        SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                             PCT/CA2014/000488
      As outlined above, each connecting module surface of the interchangeable vehicle assembly
      modules of the present invention would contain a symmetrical attachment mechanism which
      would allow for the interchangeable connection of that connecting module surface with the
      connecting module surface of another adjacent vehicle assembly module. The various types of
  5  attachment points which maximize the structural integrity of the completed vehicle can be
     understood and contemplated within the scope of the present invention.
     Also disclosed in addition to the modular electric vehicle of the present invention is a central
     control network for use in the modular electric vehicle. The central control network comprises a
 10  means of controlling a plurality of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules which are
     connected by adjoining connecting module surfaces and have a central power bus. At least two
     of the interchangeable vehicle assembly modules in that vehicle are powered vehicle assembly
     modules which comprise an axis extending between its two axial ends oriented in the direction of
     travel of the assembled vehicle and having at least one connecting module surface at the axial
 15  end thereof for structural attachment to an adjoining connecting module surface of an adjacent
     vehicle assembly module, at least one electrically powered axle, and a central power bus
     connectable to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle assembly modules and adjoining
    module surfaces. There is also in at least one of the powered vehicle assembly modules a
     steerable axle, which is steerable by interaction of the module controller with the at least one
20  powered axle of that module for the purpose of steering the assembled vehicle, and at least one
    of the interchangeable vehicle assembly modules includes an electric power source connected to
    the central power bus of the vehicle to provide power to the entirety of the vehicle by a central
    power bus. The central control network of the present invention itself comprises a central
    network bus extending through each interchangeable vehicle assembly module and connectable
25  at each connecting module surface to the central network bus extending through adjacent vehicle
    assembly modules. There is also a module controller within this network within each vehicle
    assembly module, connected to the central network bus and the central power bus and capable of
    controlling any power or steering components thereon. There is also a vehicle controller which
    is a part of the control network which is connected to the assembled vehicle and the central
30  network bus which can control the vehicle by interaction with the module controllers on the
    vehicle assembly modules and by extension may control the powered axles or other accessory
                                         SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                             PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                      9
     modules thereon, and an operator interface is connected to the vehicle controller by which an
     operator can drive and steer the vehicle. The operator interface and the vehicle controller could
     be separate components or could be integrated.
  5  The central control network of the present invention might also allow for the control of accessory
     modules connected to the remainder of the vehicle, wherein the module controller on at least one
     vehicle assembly module is connected to an accessory module requiring operator control and the
     vehicle controller allows an operator to control that accessory module through the operator
     interface.
 10
     The central network bus connection in the central control network of the present invention
     between adjacent vehicle assembly modules could be wireless or wired. In the case of a wireless
     connection, the modules would have to contain at least one wireless transceiver operatively
     connected to the central control network for the sake of communicating with the other modules
15   and necessary components thereon.
     Another aspect of the present invention is an interchangeable vehicle assembly module for use in
    the assembly of the modular electric vehicle. The module comprises an axis extending between
    its two axial ends oriented in the direction of travel of the assembled vehicle and having at least
20  one connecting module surface and an axial end thereof for structural attachment to an adjoining
    connecting module surface of an adjacent vehicle assembly module. There is a central power
    bus extending therethrough, connectable to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle assembly
    modules and adjoining surfaces, and a central network bus which is connectable to the central
    network bus of adjacent vehicle assembly modules and adjoining surfaces. There is also a
25  module controller connected to the central power bus and the central network bus. The module
    controller could comprise anything from a basic terminator in a one-ended module, through to a
    more elaborate electronic controller capable of controlling the power components on a powered
    axle or the like.
30  The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of the present invention could have a single
    connecting module surface for attachment at an end of the assembled vehicle, being a terminal
                                        SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                           PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                     10
      vehicle assembly module, or could have two connecting module surfaces being more of a
      bidirectional module which could be attached at different places within an assembled vehicle.
      The interchangeable vehicle assembly module could also include at least one powered axle
   5  thereon with ground engaging means, capable of moving the vehicle across a working surface.
      This powered interchangeable vehicle assembly module would have its powered axle operatively
      connected to the central power bus and the central network bus and capable of being controlled
      by the corresponding module controller, in communication with the vehicle controller. The
      interchangeable vehicle assembly module if it included at least one powered axle could also be
 10   steerable, allowing for steering of an assembled vehicle including the module.
      The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of the present invention could also include an
     electric power source connected to the central power bus such that it could provide power to an
     entire assembled modular electric vehicle including that module.
 15
     The interchangeable vehicle assembly module could also include one or more accessory module
     attachment points for the attachment of at least one accessory module thereto. To accommodate
     the attachment and control of various accessory modules the interchangeable vehicle assembly
     module might also include at least one accessory module network connection for the connection
20   of an accessory module to the central network bus, or at least accessory module power
     connection for the connection of an accessory module to the central power bus.
     Each connecting module surface of the interchangeable vehicle assembly module of the present
     invention could contain a symmetrical attachment mechanism which would allow for the
25   interchangeable connection of that connecting module surface with the connecting module
     surface of one or more other vehicle assembly modules.
     DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS:
30
                                         SUBSTITUTE SEZET (RULE 26)

      WO 2014/194409                                                             PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                    11
    Selected preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to
    the accompanying drawings. In the accompanying drawings:
            Figure 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment of a modular electric vehicle of the
  5         present invention, with two steering powered vehicle assembly modules;
            Figure 2 is a top view of the embodiment of Figure 1;
            Figure 3 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 1;
 10
            Figure 4 is a perspective view of two interchangeable vehicle assembly modules;
           Figure 5 is a perspective view of a modular electric telehandler vehicle, in accordance
           with the present invention, with two steering powered vehicle assembly modules;
 15
           Figure 6 is a side view of the telehandler embodiment of Figure 5;
           Figure 7 is a perspective view of a three axle modular electric vehicle in accordance with
           the present invention, with one steering powered vehicle assembly module;
20
           Figure 8 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 7;
           Figure 9 is a perspective view of a five axle side dump truck embodiment of the present
           invention, with four steering powered vehicle assembly modules;
25
           Figure 10 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 9;
           Figure 11 is a perspective view of a five axle flat deck truck embodiment of the modular
           electric vehicle of the present invention, with four steering powered vehicle assembly
30         modules;
                                        SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          12
              Figure 12 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 11;
              Figure 13 is a perspective view of a four axle flat deck truck embodiment of the modular
              electric vehicle of the present invention, with two steering powered vehicle assembly
  5           modules;
              Figure 14 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 13;
              Figure 15 is a perspective view of a four axle tank truck in accordance with the modular
 10           electric vehicle design of the present invention, with two steering powered vehicle
              assembly modules;
              Figure 16 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 15;
15            Figure 17 is one representative wiring schematic of a central network bus on a modular
             electric vehicle of the present invention.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS:
20
    As outlined above, the overall concept of the present invention is a modular electric vehicle comprised of
    a plurality of discrete vehicle assembly modules. The combined integrated control system of the vehicle,
    comprised of a network of controllers on the modules connected by a central network bus, would be
    aware of the module configuration of the vehicle in total and would make available to the vehicle operator
25  the appropriate control configuration to operate the vehicle in its assembled modular form.
    Vehicle requirements.
30  There are a number of basic concepts which are contemplated in the design of the modular electric
    vehicle of the present invention. It is desired to achieve a system where, either in factory or on site, a
    modular electric vehicle can be assembled from a plurality of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules.
                                           SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RUL        26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                       PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                           13
      In considering this approach in comparison to a pre-existing vehicle type, it can be thought of as dividing
     the prior art vehicle into a plurality of modules which can be attached together to achieve the completed
      vehicle, either for the sake of allowing for compact on site assembly, and/or for the purpose of allowing
     the construction of vehicles of varying types, sizes and configurations with a minimized manufacturing
  5  footprint. For example, it may be possible to develop thirty different vehicle configurations for sale,
     using only 6 or 8 different vehicle assembly modules. This will allow for maximized manufacturing
     flexibility and lowered manufacturing costs, while maximizing the number of vehicle types which can be
     offered to customers for sale.
 10  Given that the primary applications for these types of vehicles involve industrial scenarios in which either
     the manufactured size ofthe modules will permit the on-site assembly of different or larger vehicles than
     in the past, as well as that in many industrial applications there are safety concerns with the use of internal
     combustion engines, electricity is contemplated to be the primary power system to be used. The modular
     manufacture and assembly method of the present invention could be used with gas or other internal
 15  combustion powered vehicles also, but with more limited effect.
     In many industrial applications which might include operations in tight or confined work areas, turning
     radius of the vehicle will also be a concern. Steering components and methodology need to accommodate
     the need for tight turning radii - in fact in considering tight turning radii the preferred steering approach
20   for a multi-axle vehicle will likely be a crab steering approach, where all of the wheels on the vehicle
    steer, rather than just a steering axle at one end of the vehicle.
    Modular electric vehicle:
25
    As outlined above and will be discussed in further detail below, the first embodiment of the present
    invention is a modular electric vehicle which is comprised of a plurality of interchangeable vehicle
    assembly modules. A modular electric vehicle is assembled from a plurality of discrete interchangeable
    vehicle assembly modules. The modular electric vehicle of the present invention has at least two axles
30  with ground-engaging wheels, tracks or the like for the purpose of driving the vehicle across a work
    surface. At least one of the axles must include steerable wheels or the ability to steer the vehicle.
    When we refer to a plurality of modules we mean at least two or potentially more than two. At least two
    of the interchangeable vehicle assembly modules used in the construction of a modular electric vehicle in
    accordance with the present invention would be modules including a powered axle. At least one of those
                                             SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          14
      powered axle modules would be steerable, to provide for the ability to steer the overall vehicle once
      assembled.
      Really any number of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules in excess of one could be used to
  5  assemble a finished vehicle in accordance with the remainder of the method. The type of modules which
     could be used also varies. As will be discussed in further detail below there are contemplated to be
     powered modules and non-powered modules, and some of the powered modules will be steerable to allow
     for steering the assembled vehicle. Beyond this however, the finish of the vehicle assembly modules
     could vary in terms of their function as well. Some modules might have seats or operator cabs their own,
 10  others might include a freight deck or a passenger area, or even very purpose built or function specific
     equipment could be manufactured into a module which could then be assembled into finished vehicles.
     To outline the assembly of a basic modular electric vehicle, we rfer to Figures I through 3 which
     demonstrate a basic modular electric vehicle assembled in accordance with the method of the present
15   invention. There is shown a modular electric vehicle I in accordance with the present invention which in
     this particular case takes the finished format of a small transport truck with a cab 2 for seating and a small
    transport deck 3.
    Referring to the side view of Figure 3 the five vehicle assembly modules used in the construction and
20  assembly of this particular truck I can be seen. From the front of the vehicle I to the rear, as defined by
    the forward facing of the operator cab, there is shown a terminal vehicle assembly module 4 which is a
    bumper assembly, a steerable power vehicle assembly module 5 which in this view comprises the front
    axle portion of the vehicle 1, a central operator cab module 6 which is a non-powered vehicle assembly
    module, followed by a second steerable power vehicle assembly module 5, which is the same as the front
25  axle module but flipped around for opposite connection in the assembly of the vehicle 1. The final
    vehicle assembly module is a second terminal bumper assembly 4.
    A deck surface 7 can also be seen. The deck surface 7 could either be a part of the operator cab module 6
    which would drop into place over top of the rear axle module 5, or could be an attachable accessory
30  module which could be attached to the remainder of an assembled vehicle 1.
    The number of combinations of different modules which could be assembled in accordance with the
    underlying premise of the present invention to yield different combinations and different completed
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                           15
     vehicle configurations will be obvious to those skilled in the art and are all contemplated within the scope
     hereof, Some additional assembled modular vehicle combinations will be shown in further detail below.
  5  Interchangeable vehicle assembly modules:
     A modular electric vehicle could be assembled from a combination of powered or non-powered modules
     with connecting module surfaces and pass through bus connections, and that various of the modules could
     easily be interchanged in their location within the vehicle by simply moving and reattaching them.
 10  Ideally the control system of the vehicle, connected by a central network bus, would recognize the
     reconfiguration of the modules and adjust the control system accordingly or notify the operator if an
     invalid configuration had been made. For example, referring to the truck of Figures 1 to 3, the operator
     module 5 could be moved to the front of the vehicle,. and the front and back powered vehicle assembly
     modules 4 connected together in close proximity, to provide a different load support beneath the transport
15   deck for example, or if it was simply desired to place the operator control position at the very front of the
     vehicle. Reconfiguration or alteration of the assembly of the vehicle could again be done either in the
     field or at the location of manufacture but generally speaking simplicity of this type of an assembly
     method and its flexibility in terms of the number of different available configurations with a fixed number
     of vehicle assembly modules being available, will be seen and understood.
20
     Again referring to the truck of Figures 1 to 3 the interchangeability of the modules and the connecting
     module surface concept can also be seen with respect to the two powered vehicle assembly modules 4 - it
    can be seen that the front powered vehicle assembly module 5 and the back powered vehicle assembly
    module 5 have been flipped around in their orientation to the remainder of the vehicle such that the axles
25  are at the distal ends of the vehicle. It will be seen from the otherwise symmetrical shape of those
    modules that it is the same module being used in both cases and simply being reoriented for assembly.
    The module controller in each of those powered vehicle assembly modules could then either
    automatically or through an operator or assembly interface be configured to recognize the orientation of
    those modules 5 in relation to the remainder of the vehicle I and adjust the control appropriately. For
30  example the vehicle controller could then recognize the location of the axles on the vehicle in relation to
    the center of rotation for steering purposes, and adjust the nature of the control inputs and outputs
    appropriately to properly and efficiently steer the vehicle as assembled or drive the vehicle as assembled.
    If another powered vehicle assembly module 5 with another powered axle was added to the vehicle, the
    vehicle controller would again either automatically or by operator input be aware of the presence of that
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                      PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          16
     additional axle and again have the necessary program in place to either recognize that as an appropriate or
     acceptable control configuration and allow for control appropriately thereof, or could alternatively notify
     the assembly or the operator that the configuration of the vehicle in that fashion was not one that was
     accepted or programmed and that a change in vehicle configuration was required. Notifying the operator
  5  of these types of configuration issues is something that is contemplated might take place within the scope
     of the present invention, since the modular nature of this electric vehicle lends itself to reconfiguration in
     the field on occasion to meet alternate purposes.
     There are a number of different underlying characteristics of different modules for assembly of electric
 10  vehicles in accordance with the present invention and it is desired to summarize those in support of the
     remainder of this specification.
     Firstly, each of the vehicle assembly modules contemplated has an axis - which generally speaking is
     along the direction of travel of the finished assembled vehicle - for reference purposes. The two ends of
 15  the vehicle assembly module will correspond to the two ends of that axis, and each axial end of each
     module will define a module surface. Referring for example to Figure 4 there are shown two exploded
     vehicle assembly modules of the assembled modular electric vehicle of Figures 1 to 3, being a terminal
     bumper module 4 and a powered axle module 5. The first distinction between vehicle assembly module
     types of the system of the present invention is to distinguish between terminal vehicle assembly modules
20   and two ended vehicle assembly modules.
     The terminal vehicle assembly module 4, as shown in this Figure, will be a module which has one
     universal connecting module surface and axial connection end to the module, and the second axial end is
     intended as an outward facing or terminal end of the module - i.e. it does not include a universal
25   connecting module surface at its second end and rather at its second includes an outer face for the end of
    the vehicle with no universal attachment points, and the various buses within the vehicle
    (communications, power etc.) would be terminated within the module rather than providing pass-through
    connections at both ends of the module. Thus with a terminal vehicle assembly module such as the
    bumper module 4 shown, the end of a completed assembled electric vehicle would be provided from a
30  cosmetic and functional perspective, insofar as a finished as required "end" would be mounted to the
    vehicle, and the various service buses within the completed vehicle would be terminated in such a module
    - for example, it might be required to apply a proper terminal to the axial end of the network bus within
    the assembled vehicle for example, for the vehicle to function properly. The first distinction then between
    types of vehicle assembly modules which could comprise a completed assembled electric vehicle in
                                             SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                      PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                             17
     accordance with the present invention am terminal, or single ended, vehicle assembly modules, in terms
     of the number of connecting module surfaces or ends provided, versus two-ended vehicle assembly
     modules which would provide the necessary universal connecting module surface and bus connections at
     both axial ends of the module to allow for placement of the module anywhere in a completed assembled
  5  modular electric vehicle rather than just at one end thereof.
     It will be understood that certain embodiments of the completed modular electric vehicle of the present
     invention, and vehicle assembly modules, could use only two-ended vehicle assembly modules to
     minimize the number of required module types. It might be possible that either the universal attachment
 10  points for the attachment of an adjacent vehicle assembly module could be manufactured in such a way as
     to not pose a safety threat or utility hazard if left disconnected to an adjacent module, and the internal
     conduits or bus connections for services between the modules of an assembled electric vehicle could also
     be optionally terminated using an attachable or optional terminal of some appropriate type - this approach
     would remove the need for terminal vehicle assembly modules, although it is contemplated that for
 15  example the use of bumpers on a vehicle etc. would most often be desired by the end customer and the
     attachment of a basic terminal vehicle assembly module such as a terminal bumper assembly would be
     simpler than manufacturing a larger terminal module such as a terminal powered module. Either such
     approach is contemplated within the scope of the present invention - either the use of terminal vehicle
     assembly modules to finish or cap the assembly of a modular electric vehicle in accordance with the
20  remainder of this system, or the production and use of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules that can
    be used in either a terminal or two-ended fashion.
    Connecting module surfaces:
25
    As outlined above the key to the assembly of a modular electric vehicle in accordance with the method of
    the present invention is that the variety of vehicle assembly modules which are created for this purpose,
    either powered or non-powered, need to have at their axial ends universal connecting module surfaces
    which will allow for the interchangeable mating of the universal connecting module surface of any
30  vehicle assembly module manufactured in accordance with the system and method of the present
    invention to another adjacent vehicle assembly module. In the case of the terminal vehicle assembly
    module with a finished surface at one end to face outwardly from the remainder of the vehicle in the
    direction of travel, either at the front of the rear of the vehicle, there would only be a single universal
    connecting module surface. In the case of the two ended vehicle assembly module which could be used in
                                             SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          18
     any location within the assembly of a modular electric vehicle in accordance with the present invention,
     both of the two axial ends of the module, perpendicular to the direction of travel of the vehicle, would
     have the connecting module surfaces thereon. The universal connecting module surface or universal
     attachment hardware and joint methodology which is developed for use in accordance with the method of
  5  the present invention would ideally accommodate not only the adjacent connection of the front of one
     module to the back of another module, but also would contain appropriately mirrored attachment points or
     hardware that would allow for a module to be joined from either end thereof to either end of an adjacent
     module - for example the front to the front or the back to the back. In the example of the modular electric
     truck shown in Figures 1 to 3, the powered vehicle assembly modules 5 are actually, as can be seen,
 10  flipped around and connected in this fashion - both of those powered vehicle assembly modules 5 are the
     same module, simply connected to the remainder of the vehicle in an opposing facing direction to the
     direction of travel of the vehicle.
     In addition to the fact that the hardware or latching mechanism provided on each universal connecting
15   module surface would ideally allow for the connection of either end of an adjacent two ended vehicle
     assembly module, the connection mechanism or hardware would need to be sufficiently rigid or strong to
     allow for the function of the vehicle particularly for industrial vehicles intended to carry a load or the like.
     Many different types of clamping or latching mechanisms which would accomplish this objective of
     providing mirrored attachment points are mechanisms for the interchangeable aspect of connectivity,
20  along with providing sufficient strength for a loadbearing vehicle or the like, will be understood to those
    skilled in the art of vehicle frame and structure design and any type of clamping or hardware mechanism
    which accomplishes the objectives of the mirrored and universal connecting module surface requirements
    along with providing sufficient strength for the types of vehicles which would be manufactured or
    assembled using these modules are all contemplated within the scope of the present invention.
25
    Another aspect of the specific nature of the hardware connections which are developed would ideally be
    that they allowed for quick and relatively simple connection of the modules to each other, rather than
    requiring a significant amount of assembly time more specific and special tools or the like. The central
    power bus connections and the central network bus connections between adjacent modules could actually
30  form a part of the attachment hardware on the connecting module surfaces between the modules as well.
    Tennminal versus bidirecdonal vehicle assembly modules:
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

         WO 2014/194409                                                                  PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                           19
      The vehicle assembly modules, both non-powered and power in nature, could also be terminal or dual
      ended. A terminal vehicle assembly module would basically be capable of connection only at one
      connection end to an adjacent vehicle assembly module - such that it could for example be mounted at the
      end of a vehicle and might include a bumper or the like. A dual ended vehicle assembly module would
  5   have structural attachment points, as well as pass-through bus connections, at each end of the module,
      being the connection ends, so that the dual ended vehicle assembly module could be connected at each of
      its ends to an adjacent vehicle assembly module, either tenninal or dual ended itself, and powered or non
      powered in nature.
 10   It is specifically contemplated that a terminal vehicle assembly module could be manufactured which
     might be fairly small in size and might actually simply provide a terminal attachment for use with a dual
     ended vehicle assembly module in accordance with the remainder of the system such that for example it
     would effectively comprise a Or a bumper or the like which could be attached to the end of an already
     assembled modular electric vehicle in accordance with the remainder of the present invention. These
 15  types of terminal vehicle assembly modules would allow for maximum flexibility in the configuration and
     assembly of modular electric vehicles in accordance with the system and method of the present invention.
     Each vehicle assembly module will have in approximately the same universal location at each connection
     end thereof the necessary connections to allow for the pass-through connection of these various buses or
20   services through the completed assembled modular electric vehicle.
    Powered vehicle assembly modules:
25  The next distinction in the types of vehicle assembly modules which could be developed or used in
    accordance with the remainder of the vehicle assembly method and methodology of the present invention
    is the distinction between powered vehicle assembly modules and non-powered vehicle assembly
    modules. A powered vehicle assembly module is contemplated to be a vehicle assembly module which
    includes vehicle power equipment for use in the travel or drive of the finished assembled modular electric
30  vehicle. This would comprise either at least one pass-through axle with wheels or other locomotion aids
    such as tracks or the like at the ends thereof, or alternatively powered wheels mounted at either side edge
    of the module with the wheels mounted in individually powered fashion oriented in the direction of travel
    of the finished vehicle. In a powered vehicle assembly module with a pass-through axle, there might be a
    single electric motor and power transfer components to drive the axle and wheels, versus in a powered
                                             SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                   PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          20
     vehicle assembly module with independently mounted wheels it is contemplated that each wheel might be
     connected to its own electric motor with all of the motors on the module being connected to the central
     power and network bus of the module and the vehicle. Either approach is contemplated within the scope
     of the present invention.
  5
     While we speak in terms of axles which support or engage the surface-engaging wheels or tracks on a
     powered vehicle assembly module, it will be understood that the concept of axles in these modules does
     not only contemplate a straight through unitary axle as might have been understood in a conventional
     sense, The axles on the powered vehicle assembly modules could also comprise a mounting axle and
 10  steering and power system for individual wheels on the module (and in fact this will the most likely
     implementation of the powered vehicle assembly modules) - rather than a straight through axle with a
     single power converter from an electric motor (which might be preferred in some circumstances where a
     non-steering powered vehicle assembly module was being manufactured), the individual wheels on the
     powered vehicle assembly modules might be individually powered by discrete electric motors in others
15   including in steering modules - either such axle approach is contemplated within the scope of the present
     invention.
     Each powered vehicle assembly module is contemplated to be self-contained from a power perspective
     insofar as each powered vehicle assembly module would contain its own drive power as well as its own
20   electric charging and power charging and storage system. By providing self-contained power systems on
     each powered vehicle assembly module, the assembly of a vehicle with multiple powered vehicle
     assembly modules will results in the inclusion of multiple onboard drive and power systems - the
     availability of more power in storage on the vehicle, as the number of axles and driven wheel or other
    power requirements increases, is desirable.
25
    Each powered vehicle assembly module would contain at least one axle with an integrated drive and
    power, as well as an electrical power storage or battery system, along with a module controller for the
    control of the driving and steering of the at least one steerable axle Using standardized attachment points
    between the various modules along with a central network bus which allowed communication between
30  the module controllers of each module would allow for the flexible assembly of various electric vehicles
    of different configurations using an inventory of standard modules.
    While it is contemplated that the best implementation of the powered vehicle assembly modules of the
    present invention would be to include the charging and power storage system on each powered vehicle
                                           SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

         WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                            21
       assembly module such that the necessary batteries and stored power would be available on a module by
       module basis to meet the power needs of the drive or other components attached thereto, it will also be
       understood that in certain embodiments, while the drive system or drive components would be included
       within each powered vehicle assembly module there may be a desire in certain cases to use a single
   5   charging and power storage or battery system on the vehicle, or less than one charging system for each
       powered vehicle assembly module, and to simply connect electric drive components of each powered
       vehicle assembly module to that central battery system by a central power bus on the vehicle.
       Also integral with each powered vehicle assembly module would be a module controller operatively
 10    connected to the power and drive equipment on the module as well as to the controllers on other modules
      and the remainder of the vehicle via a central network bus. The controller could generate the necessary
      control outputs to the motors or drive equipment on the module when the overall control of the vehicle or
      movement of the vehicle in a particular fashion was called for via the central network bus. By placing an
       integral controller on each drive module, assembly and control of the finished vehicle is simplified. The
 15   controllers on each drive module could recognize the presence of other similar controllers on the
      communications network of the vehicle as well as with proper network configuration recognize their
      relative position in relation to the remainder of the vehicle such that with appropriate software stored
      within the memory of the controller or controllers, the overall drive control of the vehicle could
      automatically be reconfigured or adjusted on the fly to match the configuration of the modules together in
20    the vehicle. One of the controllers on one of the drive modules might become the master, with the
      remainders being slaved to that controller, from the purpose or perspective of the overall control interface
      of the vehicle, or alternatively each of the controllers on the drive modules might be slaves to a single
      added vehicle controller which could just plug in a modular fashion into the central communications and
      power bus of the vehicle somewhere thereon. Either such controller network approach is contemplated
25   within the scope hereof as well, and will be described in further detail with respect to add functionality of
     the unit elsewhere below.
     Steerable vehicle assembly modules:
30
     A further distinction in the types of powered vehicle assembly modules which could be used on modular
     electric vehicles in accordance with the remainder of the present invention would be steerable or non
     steerable powered vehicle assembly modules. A steerable powered vehicle assembly module would be a
     module which could be used to, singly or in combination with others, steer the completed assembled
                                              SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                         22
    modular electric vehicle as it drives across a surface. It may be the case that only one axle of the vehicle
    and thus one powered vehicle assembly module needed to be steerable, or it may be the case that the axle
    and drive equipment on more than one powered vehicle assembly module of the vehicle is steerable to
    allow for example for more maneuverability or the like. For example referring to the truck embodiment
 5  of the electric vehicle of the present invention which is shown in Figures 1 to 3, it can be seen that the
    wheels on each of the two powered vehicle assembly modules on that vehicle are steerable which would
    allow for the highest possible maneuverability. The wheels of each of those two powered vehicle
    assembly modules being steerable independently, the controllers on each of those powered vehicle
    assembly modules would control the steering of the vehicle as well as its driving power and upon receipt
10  of a steering indication from the operator controls of the vehicle would initiate the necessary steering
    control on the power equipment on each of those powered vehicle assembly modules to accomplish the
    desired steering effect of the vehicle. If the powered vehicle assembly modules used tracks instead of
   tires, which is not likely but is possible as outlined elsewhere herein, the necessary adjustment to the
    steering control of the module, using methodologies known to those skilled in the art of the manufacture
15 of tracked vehicles, would be implemented. In any event it is contemplated that both steerable and non
    steerable powered vehicle assembly modules could be used in the assembly of the modular electric
   vehicle of the present invention dependent upon the desired functionality of the completely assembled
   vehicle. [As is also outlined following, it may be the case that either a steerable or non-steerable wheeled
   module which did not have a power system thereon, such that it would effectively comprise a trailing or
20 supporting but non-driven axle on the vehicle could also form a part of the structure of the vehicle.]
   Non-powered vehicle assembly modules:
25 The final type of an interchangeable vehicle assembly module which is contemplated within the inventory
   which could be used to assemble the completed modular electric vehicles of the present invention are
   non-powered modules. Non-powered modules are contemplated to be any module, either terminal or two
   ended, which did not include an electric drive and power system connected to an axle or wheels engaging
   the surface of the work area. Referring to the truck of Figure I to 3, the non-powered modules shown
30 there are the terminal bumper assemblies, and the central operator module. Another type of a non
   powered module which is contemplated is a non-powered module with an axle or wheels engaging the
   surface, which could be steerable or otherwise.
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          23
     it will be understood that the general concept of a non-powered module, being any module which could
     be used in the assembly of the modular electric vehicle of the present invention by having either in the
     terminal form one, or in a two ended form two, connecting module surfaces and pass through bus
     connections capable of being connected to adjacent vehicle assembly modules, either powered or non
  5  powered, is contemplated within the scope of the present invention. The powered and non-powered
     modules would once assembled basically form the frame or the structure of the finished vehicle, and
     additional modules or components can also be attached to the top surface of those modules to provide
     even further flexibility. For example in the circumstance of the truck of Figures 1 to 3, additional
     components could be attached to the top of the transport deck 7 for example to allow for the further
 10  flexibility of assembly of the vehicle and to further increase the number of finished configurations
     available.
     There are numerous different types of non-powered vehicle assembly modules which can be
    contemplated for assembly into a finished vehicle in accordance with the method of the present invention.
15   What is contemplated from the overall perspective of a non-powered vehicle assembly module is a
    module which has matching frame or substructure and other components to the powered vehicle assembly
    modules which will be used in the assembly of the vehicle, such that the non-powered vehicle assembly
    module can be connected at its two axial ends to two adjacent vehicle assembly modules, which might be
    power or non-powered modules. The non-powered vehicle assembly modules would likely have either
20  operator function or transport purpose - for example the module might include an operator cab which
    provided a seating area for the operator of the vehicle, along with controls for operation of the vehicle
    which would interface with the remainder of the controls on the assembled vehicle through the central
    network bus. It may also be the case that the non-powered vehicle assembly module might include a
    plurality of seats to create a human transport vehicle, or a transport deck or box or the like. Any type of a
25  vehicle assembly module which did not include a power system, as is contemplated with the powered
    vehicle assembly modules outlined above, is contemplated within the scope of the non-powered modules
    and would all be within the scope of the intended present invention. While it is contemplated that in the
    circumstances of most industrial applications it would be desired for all of the axle bearing modules to be
    powered vehicle assembly modules with integrated power systems, it will be also understood that an axle
30  bearing non-powered vehicle assembly module might also be manufactured. In such a circumstance,
    either with a pass-through axle or with individually steerable wheels, that vehicle assembly module could
    be manufactured in accordance with the remainder of the present invention and could in a drag along non
    powered fashion provide ground support and wheels for the assembled modular electric vehicle.
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          24
     Central power bus:
     As outlined throughout this document, a central power bus passing through all of the modules in the
  5  assembled vehicle will be helpful from the perspective of sharing power between modules as one module
     might require more power. The central power bus might also be used from the perspective of allowing for
     recharging of the electrical batteries in multiple modules of the vehicle by the connection of the charger to
     one point on the central power bus and using it for charging purposes. The benefits of a central power bus
     through the entire vehicle be understood those skilled in the art of electrical power and electrical circuit
10   design.
     Any type of a cable connector or the like which could be used to connect the central power bus between
     adjacent modules one the modules were connected is contemplated for the purposes of connecting the two
    adjacent modules and the central power boss. As outlined in further detail below, the use of keyed cable
15  connections may be especially beneficial from the perspective of providing for the quick attachment of
    the power bus between adjacent modules. Any peripheral or component on any module which required
    power could be connected to the central bus - for example the module controller could be connected to
    the central power bus either for controlling certain aspects of the power distribution process, or simply
    because the controller itself required power. Lights or other accessories on the module can be connected
20  to the central power bus, as could or would be the vehicle controller, responsible for the overall control of
    the vehicle by distribution of control signals to all of the module controllers on the central control
    network bus.
    One or more of the modules in the assembled vehicle might also include power distribution ports from
25  which accessories or peripherals can be connected to the central power bus for the purpose of powering
    those as well.
    Central network bus:
30
    In addition to the need for the development and implementation of connecting module surfaces and
    attachment hardware at the attachment ends of each vehicle assembly module, either on both ends at
    opposing ends of the direction of travel of the vehicle on a two ended vehicle assembly module, or at one
    end perpendicular to the axis or direction oftravel of the vehicle on a terminal vehicle assembly module,
                                             SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

         WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                             25
       is that there will be the need for a central control network and bus to extend physically through each
      vehicle assembly module and again allow for some type of universal connection at each universal
      connecting module surface of each vehicle assembly module.
  5   As outlined above, and most particularly understood with respect to the powered vehicle assembly
      modules of the vehicle which include drive motors and a power charging and storage system, each
      powered vehicle assembly module would have its drive components and power components connected to
      a central network bus. There might be a local module controller physically mounted within the module
      which could be slaved to a vehicle controller within the vehicle once assembled.
 10
      The vehicle controller as designated within the assembled vehicle would, either by a power up diagnostic
      on the vehicle or by manual configuration during the process of assembly of a modular electric vehicle
      within the scope of the remainder of the present invention, identify the number, orientation and relative
      location of all of the vehicle assembly modules within the assembled modular electric vehicle. The
15    control programming for operation and driving of the vehicle, and steering the vehicle, could then be
     executed by the controller which would by the central control network on the vehicle feed the necessary
     control signals to the individual powered vehicle assembly modules as required. The operator controls for
     the vehicle - for example an operator cab with a steering wheel and/or speed and directional controls etc.
     would also be connected to the central controller network and would feed their control inputs to the
20   vehicle controller such that it could based upon the desired and safe operator inputs actuate the powered
     vehicle assembly modules and the individual power drive related to their axles and wheels to move the
     vehicle in a desired direction, as well as as required executing the necessary control of the vehicle to steer
     it in a particular direction - for example based upon one or more steerable powered vehicle assembly
     modules being present on the vehicle, if the operator provided a steering input, the controller would signal
25   the steerable powered vehicle assembly modules appropriately to execute the desired steering movement.
     In addition to a central control network or network bus on the assembled vehicle, which would be
     connected or assembled by way of connection between the communication network on the individual
     modules as they were assembled adjacent to each other, it may also be the case that it was desired to have
30   other consolidated circuitry present on the unit. The power and network bus would also be preferable for
    circumstances where add-on attachments or components were provided or attached to the assembled
    vehicle, such as the telehandler shown which would require power as well as a control interface if it was
    to be controlled in a consolidated way with the remainder of the vehicle. There may also be circumstances
    within which it was desired to run a central hydraulic conduit throughout the unit, fed from one or more
                                              SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          26
      hydraulic pumps located on individual modules, or compressed air conduits or the like - for use on brakes
      or other accessory purposes. As outlined elsewhere herein, one of the key points would be that these
      various central conduits or buses would need to be terminated at the ends of the assembled vehicle - this
      could be done either with the attachment of the terminal vehicle assembly module which included
  5   termination components for the various bus or conduit connections therein, or it may also be the case that
      add-on terminators could be provided for installation on one connecting module surface or one set of bus
      or conduit connectors on a two ended vehicle assembly module, where no terminal modules were used.
      Figure 17 shows one example of a wiring or network diagram showing the difference buses and network
 10   connections between modules in a sample embodiment of an assembled modular electric vehicle in
      accordance with the present invention. There are shown a terminal module which is a rear bumper, a drive
      module, a passenger compartment module, a driver compartment module, and a central control module,
      labeled as a brain module on this drawing. The top three wires shown in the diagram are a consolidated
     charging bus, whereby the batteries in individual modules will be charged from a central charging bus
15   simply to require only a single power connection when charging was to be done. The middle two items
     shown are a hydraulic box between the various modules, and the bottom for connections are a controller
     area network in a low-voltage bus, to allow for the various control of the modules in the vehicle and low
     voltage power for accessory modules and the like.
20   It will be understood that this is only one possible embodiment of the network bus of the present
     invention and the connection of various central services between modules and assembled electric vehicle
     in accordance with the remainder hereof, and that many different types of specific wiring schematics and
     the light could be created which would all still accomplish the same objective of a central wiring and
     control infrastructure on the assembled modular vehicle, and all such variations or modifications are
25   contemplated within the scope hereof.
    Module controller:
30  Each vehicle assembly module would contain a module controller connected to the central network bus.
    In the case of the terminal vehicle assembly module, the module controller might simply be terminator for
    the network bus, or it might be any controller capable of controlling lights or other power accessories on
    that module. In a powered vehicle assembly module, the module controller would be operatively
    connected to the central network bus as well as to the powered axle, to provide control outputs for the
                                             SUBSTITUTE SHEzET (RULE 26)

         WO 2014/194409                                                                   PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                           27
      motion or staring at that axle or the wheels on the module to steer the assembled vehicle or driving across
      the surface. By providing a self-contained module controller within each module of the vehicle,
      redundancy in the control system is maximized, and control of the assembled vehicle is simplified. With a
      module controller capable on program to control each relevant component within a particular module,
  5   control signals on the central network bus of the vehicle could be simplified since they were just need to
      instruct or call for particular control outputs which could be interpreted by the module controller on
     modules which would be required to participate in such an activity and could in turn actuate the necessary
      items. Inclusion of a basic module controller in each module for assembly into a vehicle, with the
     necessary control inputs and outputs to actuate the module in question, can be understood by those skilled
 10  in the art of electronic systems and controls design.
      Wireless network interface:
15   It is specifically contemplated in particular embodiments of the present invention, there may be a wireless
     network transceiver operatively connected to the central network bus, either for the purpose of allowing
     wireless communication between modules on the assembled vehicle or alternatively to allow for the
     control of adjacent modular electric vehicles by another modular electric vehicle in accordance with the
     present invention. The various modifications which could be made to the overall network architecture on
20   the finished vehicle of the present invention if wireless capability were included will be understood to
     those skilled in the art of electronic communications.
     Vehicle controller;
25
    In addition to a module controller present on each vehicle assembly module, the assembled modular
    electric vehicle of the present invention would include the vehicle controller. The vehicle controller
    would be operatively connected to the central network boss of the vehicle and might comprise either an
    integral component in a particular type of a vehicle assembly module, or might alternatively simply
30  comprise of electronic module for attachment to a central network bus port somewhere on the assembled
    vehicle. Either such approaches contemplated within the scope of the present invention. The vehicle
    controller, it is contemplated, is the hardware module which would be responsible for overall control of
    the assembled vehicle by dispatch of control signals to individual modules therein on the central network
    bus. The vehicle controller would need to either recognize and identify the number, position and
                                              SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                         28
     orientation of various modules within the assembled vehicle, or it could be inputted into the software of
     the vehicle controller by some type of an operator interface - based upon those inputs or recognitions, the
    vehicle controller could then load or execute the appropriate control software for the driving and steering,
    or control of peripherals, on the vehicle.
 5
    Operator interface:
     It is specifically contemplated that the modular electric vehicle of the present invention would either be
10  controlled wirelessly or in a hardwired fashion using a "drive by wire" methodology. Standard analog
    instrumentation, or a digital operator interface, could be used to capture operator inputs related to the
    operation of the vehicle, and those inputs would be communicated via the controller or controller network
    on the vehicle to the drive components in the powered vehicle assembly modules to drive and steer the
    vehicle. Using this type of an approach, with wireless technology, for example the vehicle could
15  effectively be assembled as a transport platform or a transport vehicle without an operator cab thereon,
    and the operator could have a wireless remote control to use for control and manipulation of the vehicle.
    This might be done for safety or payload reasons. In other circumstances, such as the truck embodiment
    shown in Figures I to 3, and operator cab might be provided on the vehicle and the operator cab might
    include a steering wheel or other controls which could capture operator inputs for translation and
20  communication to the drive components on the vehicle to again coordinate its movement and steering, or
    other functionality.
    In an embodiment of the modular electric vehicle of the present invention which included a third-party
    bus connection, by which third-party accessory modules could be connected to the control network on the
25 vehicle, the operator control interface could then also be used, with an appropriate software or
   configuration change, to control those third-party accessory modules also, if desired. Operator controls
   could also have safety protocols manufactured in their software such that for example of the third-party
   accessory was connected to the network bus of the vehicle and that accessory was in operation, the
   controller on the vehicle could inhibit the ability to move the vehicle while for example the telehandler
30 arm was overextended, the box was in the dumping position or the like.
   Many types of drive by wire control systems could be devised and used within the overall methodology of
   the present invention and all such approaches are expressly contemplated within the scope hereof.
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                         29
    The operator control, in certain circumstances where it was a digital computer interface or the like, might
    allow for the operator or the assembler to manually input the module configuration of the vehicle once
    completed, or else the control system on the vehicle could also automatically recognize the type,
    configuration and relative positioning of individual modules within the vehicle by querying the network
 5  addresses of the modules on the controller network. Where a digital operator control was used, the
    operator control interface itself may also comprise the vehicle controller on the vehicle, whereby that
    device in addition to capturing operator inputs would also generate the communication signals and
    instructions to various drive or power components on the vehicle to move, steer or otherwise actuate
    certain functions thereon.
10
    Dependent upon the particular module configuration of an assembled modular electric vehicle in
   accordance with the present invention, this type of control system also lends itself to simple conversion
    for push pull operations. Operator cab modules, with or without independent control hardware, could be
   placed at either end of the vehicle, or a wireless remote control could be used as well to operate the
15 vehicle in either direction - primary issue with a push pull configuration would be to either have steering
   powered vehicle assembly modules at both ends of the vehicle to allow for steering from the front of the
   vehicle, or to have appropriate steering control such that it could be steered when moving in either
   direction, with a steering axle on one end, or more likely than not in the push pull scenario all of the
   powered vehicle assembly modules would be steering powered vehicle assembly modules and could all
20 work together to steer the vehicle.
   The operator interface could either be a freestanding hardware device used either on board the vehicle
   more in a wired or wireless tethered situation, to communicate with the vehicle controller and provide
   operator inputs for the driving, steering .and other control of the assembled vehicle. The operator interface
25 and the vehicle controller could be separate hardware components, or in some cases could be integrated
   into a single hardware and software combination. Both such approaches are contemplated within the
   scope of the present invention.
30 Accessory modules:
   In addition to providing on certain vehicle assembly modules of the present invention attachment points
   for the attachment of third-party components to the vehicle, it may also be the case that it was desired to
   provide third-party component interface to either the control or communication network on the assembled
                                           SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

      WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                         30
   vehicle and/or the other central conduits - hydraulic, air or the like. By providing for the ability to
   connect power, hydraulics or the like to a third-party component, another entire realm of flexibility in
   terms of the delivery and ultimate application of these vehicles is opened, since third parties could
   manufacture components which could interface with the vehicles and would simply need to know the
 5 proper connections and communication and operating parameters which would be provided by those
   interfaces. By providing the ability to interface a third-party component with the control network on the
   vehicle, it would also be possible than for the operator controls, as outlined in further detail below, to
   integrate the control of these third-party components along with driving the vehicle.
10 Examples of third-party components which could be attached which may or may not require control
   integration would for example be an air compressor or an auxiliary power converter - if the vehicle itself
   did not include air conduits for example, but in certain industrial applications compressed air was
   required, a third-party air compressor could be attached to the vehicle and connected to a power bus to
   provide power for the air compressor. In other applications and auxiliary power converter might be
15 required or even something like a steam generator or the like in certain applications. Many types of third
   party components could be integrated and controlled with the underlying modular electric vehicles of the
   present invention by providing means of attachment as well as means of connection of those components
   to the control and other supply conduits on the vehicle. The provision of a protocol and a standardized
   means and method of attachment for these components is contemplated within the scope of the present
20 invention as well.
   Accessory modules could also include modules such as the following for attachment to the remainder of
   the vehicle:
25              a.   An operator cab;
                b. A passenger seating module;
                c.   A deck surface;
                d. A lifting device;
                e. A payload box; or
30              f. A payload tank.
   Referring to Figures 5 through 16 there are shown some other examples of modular electric vehicles in
   accordance with the present invention. Figures 5 and 6 for example show a telehandler, assembled in
   similar fashion to the truck of Figures 1 to 3. The vehicle 1 is comprised of a plurality of vehicle
                                          SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

      WO 2014/194409                                                                      PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          31
    assembly modules, including two powered vehicle assembly modules 5, an operator cab non powered
    module 6, two terminal modules 4 being bumper assemblies, and two surface support/dolly foot non
    powered modules 10. The actual telehandler assembly on the unit, shown at i1, could be an above-deck
    modular component which could be added onto the deck in place, and connected to the control/network
 5  bus on the vehicle to allow for integrated operator control. The telehandler 11 would be characterized as
   an on-board component insofar as it might be attached to the completed assembled vehicle base, If it was
   physically integral with a manufactured vehicle assembly module it could then be considered as a part of
   the module itself. This particular model of the modular electric vehicle of the present invention shows
   two steerable powered vehicle assembly modules, which could be used to steer the vehicle in very tight
10 radii.
   Figures 7 and 8 show a three axle truck concept again assembled in accordance with the general modular
   electric vehicle concept of the present invention. There are three powered vehicle assembly modules 5 in
   this case, one of which is steerable at the front of the vehicle and the two rear axles are not. Two
15 additional accessory modules added to the vehicle are a front and rear storage box on top of the vehicle,
   shown at 14 and 15 respectively. Also shown are terminal modules 4 and a cab module 6.
   Yet another alternate modular electric vehicle of the present invention is shown in Figures 9 in 10 - this is
   a five axle side dump truck embodiment, with four steering powered vehicle assembly modules 5 and a
20 side dumping box 13 attached to the top of the vehicle. The center powered vehicle assembly module 5 is
   not steering in the pictures shown, and the next two powered vehicle assembly modules 5 closest to the
   center are steering to a lesser degree than those at the distal ends of the vehicle. The amount of steering
   which would be made by each module could be adjusted by the controller on the vehicle based on its
   awareness of the proximity of each powered vehicle assembly module 5 to the center of rotation of the
25 vehicle. The side dumping box 13 is just one example of a larger attachment which could be added to the
   deck of a vehicle assembled from multiple ground engaging powered vehicle assembly modules or non
   powered vehicle assembly modules - the dumping controls for the box itself could be connected to the
   network bus of the remainder of the vehicle.
30 Figure 11 shows a perspective view of a five axle flat deck truck embodiment of a modular electric
   vehicle of the present invention with four steering powered vehicle assembly modules similar to the side
   dumping box embodiment of Figures 9 and 10. Figure 12 is a side view of the five axle flat deck truck
   embodiment of Figure 11. The assembly of this particular modular vehicle is the same as that of the side
                                           SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

       WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          32
    dumping box truck shown above, and of the five powered vehicle assembly modules again four of them
    are steerable and are shown in the steering position.
    Figure 13 is a perspective view of a four axle flat deck truck in accordance with the present invention,
 S  with two steering powered vehicle assembly modules thereunder and the other two not steering. Figure
    14 is a side view of this truck. The two front powered vehicle assembly modules 5 on the truck of this
    embodiment are the ones being used for steering in this case and this particular illustrated embodiment
    shows another steering method are steering configuration of the multi-axle vehicle in accordance with the
    method of the present invention.
10
    Finally, showing one additional variation on the modular electric vehicle of the present invention, Figures
    15 and 16 show a perspective and side view of a four axle water truck assembled in accordance with the
    present invention. There are again two of the four powered vehicle assembly modules 5, at the front of
    the vehicle, which are steering, as is the case with the embodiment of Figures 13 and 14. There is also
15  shown a tank 12 is another optional attachment or implement which could be used with the modular
    electric vehicle of the remainder of the present invention.
    In addition to the interchangeable power and non-power vehicle assembly modules outlined herein which
    could be used to assemble the modular electric vehicle of the present invention, there could also be
20  miscellaneous accessory modules which could be interchangeably added to the vehicles as well. In terms
    of the accessory modules, these might be any attachable, optional or interchangeable component which
    can be added to the vehicle which does not comprise either a terminal or a two ended module for
    assembly into the actual frame and structure of the vehicle, as outlined elsewhere above with respect to
   the power and non-powered modules. For example something like a dump box or some other type of a
25 toolbox or storage module could be attached to the top of the deck 7 of the truck of Figures 1 to 3
    insofar as that type of the toolbox or storage component could be optionally added or removed to or from
   the vehicle, this will be understood again by those skilled in the art. It may be necessary to provide
   predetermined attachment points for these components on one or more types of vehicle assembly modules
   - the predetermined attachment points could be incorporated into the manufacture of those vehicle
30 assembly modules such that the attachment points at the reasonably required locations on the various
   modules in various vehicle configurations would he available for the attachment of a variety of
   interchangeable components
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RUL      26)

        WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                          33
     Controlling adjacent vehicles:
     Another option contemplated within the scope of the present invention would be to provide, gain either
     for wired or wireless connection, for the control of adjacent vehicles by the controller 41 lead vehicle
  5  manufactured in accordance with the present invention. Since each vehicle would be powered, it would
     not be necessary to physically connect vehicles such as would be done in a tractor-trailer configuration or
    the like, but the necessary control software could be developed to allow a particular master vehicle in a
     group of vehicles to slave the other vehicles and effectively have them "follow it" as it was operated. This
    would allow for the use of a train configuration of smaller vehicles, to minimize operator requirements
10  and still maximize payload abilities etc. - specifically and for example in tight covering situations where
    only shorter vehicles would be able to accomplish the cornering required. The ability to connect to a
    following vehicle and control its steering and locomotion is another aspect of the control system of the
    present invention which is explicitly contemplated herein. Physically the connection between master and
    slave vehicles might take the format of a data cable or connection plugged between the vehicles, or more
15   likely, the controllers on individual vehicles could wirelessly connect to each other and operate in an
    aggregated network fashion. Where the vehicles were intended to be used in this fashion either along their
    circumference or at the very least at the terminal ends thereof it would likely be the case that some type of
    proximity sensors would also be used, so that the safe distance between adjacent vehicles and area walls
    etc. could always be maintained. It may even be the case that to connect the vehicles in the approximate
20  correct proximity and relative location to each other in the "train" format, upon execution of the first
    wireless handshake or pairing between the vehicles, based on the use of proximity sensors the following
    vehicle could automatically maneuver itself into the correct position behind the leading vehicle and then
    as a part and parcel of the control operation maintain its distance and spacing. A control methodology
    such as this would even eliminate the need to carefully maneuver the vehicle into position in relation to
25  the leading vehicle.
    Control software:
30  It is envisioned that adaptable and aware control programming could be provided on the controller or
    controllers on a vehicle in accordance with the present invention so that based upon either the automated
    detection or manually entered configuration of the various vehicle assembly modules in the assembled
    modular electric vehicle the power and drive control programming could be modified or executed in a
    way that would work for the vehicle as configured. For example, in a vehicle that was assembled with a
                                            SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RUL       26)

      WO 2014/194409                                                                      PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                        34
    plurality of powered vehicle assembly modules including more than one steering powered vehicle
    assembly module, the relative steering inputs that the steering hardware on the steering powered vehicle
    assembly modules would require to steer the vehicle would be based upon amongst other things the
    proximity of that particular axle or module to the center of rotation of the vehicle. The controller could
 5 either be provided with the necessary variable programming to automatically identify and adjust to these
    scenarios, or the appropriate software could be quickly loaded onto the controller based on the selection
   of a module configuration for the vehicle. Either approach is again contemplated within the scope of the
   present invention. The key is that either the single controller attached to the network bus or control
   network on the assembled vehicle, by way of connection of the network bus as it passes through each
10 adjacent assembled vehicle assembly module, or the network of controllers where individual modules
   each include a controller, would automatically identify and adapt the behavior of the control of the
   vehicle based upon the size and particular location and assembly of the modules in the finished vehicle.
15  User-selectablesteering modes:
   Certain configurations of modular electric vehicles which were manufactured or assembled in accordance
   with the method of the present invention could include user selectable steering modes. For example, it
   could be the case that where multiple steering powered vehicle assembly modules were in place on the
20 vehicle front axle only steering could be selected, or all of the steering axles, even if all of the axles on the
   vehicle as a whole were steering axles, could be used to steer the vehicle. These different types of steering
   modes could be selected by an operator for different operational circumstances and it is contemplated that
   this would be another distinct benefit to the modular assembly and networked control methodology of the
   modular vehicle of the present invention. The steering modes could include front steering, rear steering,
25 all wheel steering, or crab (parallel) steering.
   Keyed cable connections:
30 Insofar as it would be required for the assembler or operator of the vehicle, either assembling or swapping
   in a vehicle assembly module to a vehicle, either on an assembly floor or on site or infield one thing that
   would be beneficial to provide as an option to most completely simplified the interconnection of adjacent
   vehicle assembly modules would be to make the bus or conduit. connections between the modules keyed,
   so that they can only be connected in the correct fashion. Beyond something like color coding which is
                                           SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

      WO 2014/194409                                                                   PCT/CA2014/000488
                                                       35
    simply not sufficient, keying the connections such that they could only be assembled in the right way,
    would be useful to the assembler or the infield maintenance personnel, as it would allow for maximum
    speed in vehicle service or assembly and minimizing the possibility of incorrectly connecting the wiring
   network on the vehicle and causing significant damage to the systems thereon. Providing keyed cabling or
 5 conduit connections for use with add-on accessory modules, as well as interchangeable vehicle assembly
   modules to be implemented along the direction of travel vehicle, is also contemplated within the scope of
   the present invention.
10 Central control network:
   In addition to the assembled modular electrical vehicle of the present invention there is also disclosed the
   central control network for use on such a vehicle.
15
    Vehicle assembly module:
   Vehicle assembly modules in accordance with the remainder of the present invention form freestanding
   intended subject matter of this on occasion, in addition to the assembled modular vehicle.
20
   The foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Thus, while
   certain aspects and embodiments of the invention have been described, these have been
   presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as
25 outlined by the specification and claims. The invention described herein may be embodied in a
   variety of other forms without departing from the spirit of the invention.
                                         SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

    WO 2014/194409                                                                     PCT/CA20141000488
                                                       36
   CLAIMS:
   We claim:
 5    1. A modular electric vehicle comprising a plurality of interchangeable vehicle assembly modules
          said vehicle comprising:
              a.  At least two interchangeable vehicle assembly modules each comprising:
10                       i. an axis extending between its two axial ends oriented in the direction of travel of
                            the assembled vehicle, and having at least one connecting module surface at an
                            axial end thereof for structural attachment to an adjoining connecting module
                            surface of an adjacent vehicle assembly module;
15                      ii. a central power bus connectible to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle
                            assembly modules at adjoining module surfaces;
                       iii. an electrical power source connected to the central power bus;
20                     iv. a central network bus connectible to the central network bus of adjacent vehicle
                            assembly modules at adjoining module surfaces;
                         v. a module controller connected to and capable of controlling the at least one
                            electrically powered axle and connected to the central network bus for
25                          communication with the module controllers of the other vehicle assembly
                            modules; and
                       vi. at least one electrically powered axle connected to the central power bus and the
                            central network bus;
30
               b. wherein at least one of the powered vehicle assembly modules is steerable, by interaction
                   of its module controller with the at least one powered axle thereof;
                                         SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                   PCT/CA20141000488
                                                   37
            c.  a vehicle controller connected to the central network bus, which can control the
                movement and steering of the vehicle by interaction with the module controllers on the
                powered vehicle assembly modules; and
 5          d. an operator interface connected to the vehicle controller, and by which an operator can
                drive and steer the vehicle,
    2. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 1 wherein each interchangeable vehicle assembly module
10      has two opposing connecting module surfaces.
    3. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein at least one interchangeable vehicle assembly
       module is a terminal vehicle assembly module, having only one connecting module surface for
15     attachment at an end of the assembled vehicle.
    4.  The modular electric vehicle of Claim 3 wherein the terminal vehicle assembly modules contain
        network terminators for the central network bus.
20
    5.  The modular electric vehicle of Claim 3 wherein the terminal vehicle assembly modules contain
        power terminators for the central power bus.
25  6. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein at least one vehicle assembly module is a non
        powered vehicle assembly module comprising:
                      i. an axis extending between its two axial ends oriented in the direction of travel of
                         the assembled vehicle, and having at least one connecting module surface at an
30                       axial end thereof for structural attachment to an adjoining connecting module
                         surface of an adjacent vehicle assembly module;
                     ii. a central power bus connectible to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle
                         assembly modules at adjoining module surfaces; and
                                     SUBSTITUTE    SHEET   (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                   PCT/CA20141000488
                                                    38
                    iii. a central network bus connectible to the central network bus of adjacent vehicle
                         assembly modules at adjoining module surfaces.
 5
    7.  The modular electric vehicle of Claim I further comprising a wireless communications
        transceiver operatively connected to the central network bus.
10  8.  The modular electric vehicle of Claim 7 wherein the operator interface is connected to the vehicle
        controller by wireless communication with the wireless communications transceiver.
    9. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the operator interface is connected to the vehicle
15      controller by wired connection to the central network bus.
    10. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the vehicle controller can control the movement
        and steering of at least one adjacent modular electric vehicle via a wired control network
20      connection between the vehicles.
    11. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 7 wherein the vehicle controller can control the movement
        and steering of at least one adjacent modular electric vehicle via wireless control network
25      connection between the vehicles,
    12. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 10 or 11 further comprising proximity sensors which can
        sense, and via the vehicle controller and central control network control, the proximity of the
30      modular electric vehicle to the at least one adjacent modular electric vehicle being controlled.
                                      SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                  PCT/CA20141000488
                                                   39
    13.. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein at least one of the vehicle assembly modules
         further comprises accessory module attachment points for the attachment of at least one accessory
         module to the modular electric vehicle.
 5
    14. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 13 wherein the at least one accessory module is selected
         from the group of:
              a. An operator cab;
              b. A passenger seating module;
10            c. A deck surface;
              d. A lifting device;
              e, A payload box;
              f.  A payload tank.
15
    15. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 13 wherein at least one of the vehicle assembly modules
         further comprises at least one accessory module network connection for connection of a
         accessory module to the central network bus.
20
    16. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 13 wherein at least one of the vehicle assembly modules
         further comprises at least one accessory module power connection for connection of a accessory
         module to the central power bus.
25
    17. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 16 wherein the vehicle controller also controls any
         powered accessory modules on the accessory modules via the central control network.
30  18. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 17 wherein the powered accessory modules are controlled
         by the operator interface.
                                      SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                  PCT/CA20141000488
                                                   40
    19. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the vehicle controller is aware of the
        configuration of the vehicle assembly modules in the assembled vehicle and can select the
        appropriate control software for the vehicle from software stored therein based on the
        configuration.
 5
    20. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 17 wherein the vehicle controller is aware of the
        configuration of the vehicle assembly modules and any accessory modules in the assembled
        vehicle and can select the appropriate control software for the vehicle from software stored
10      therein based on the configuration.
    21. The modular electric vehicle of Claims 19 or 20 wherein the vehicle controller is made aware of
        the configuration of the vehicle assembly modules and accessory modules by user input on the
15      operator interface.
    22. The modular electric vehicle of Claims 19 or 20 wherein the vehicle controller is made aware of
        the configuration of the vehicle assembly modules and accessory modules by a network
20      diagnostic operation on the central network bus to identify an inventory of present modules and
        their relation and interconnection to each other.
    23. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the connections of the central network bus
25      between adjacent vehicle assembly modules are effected using keyed cable connections.
    24. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the connections of the central power bus
        between adjacent vehicle assembly modules are effected using keyed cable connections.
30
    25. The modular electric vehicle of Claim 7 wherein the connections of the central network bus
        between adjacent vehicle assembly modules are effected by wireless transceiver communication
        between the modules and the central network bus.
                                     SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                    PCT/CA20141000488
                                                     41
    26. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the operator interface allows the operator to
        select from a plurality of user selectable steering modes.
 5
    27. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein the vehicle controller and the operator interface
        are integrated.
10
    28. The modular electric vehicle of Claim I wherein each connecting module surface contains a
        symmetrical attachment mechanism which will allow for interchangeable connection of said
        connecting module surface with the connecting module surface of another vehicle assembly
        module.
15
    29. A central control network for use on a modular electric vehicle comprising a plurality of
        interchangeable vehicle assembly modules, wherein:
20           a.  At least two of the interchangeable vehicle assembly modules are powered vehicle
                 assembly modules comprising:
                       i. an axis extending between its two axial ends oriented in the direction of travel of
                          the assembled vehicle, and having at least one connecting module surface at an
25                        axial end thereof for structural attachment to an adjoining connecting module
                          surface of an adjacent vehicle assembly module;
                      ii. an electrical power source on the module;
30                   iii. a central power bus connectible to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle
                          assembly modules at adjoining module surfaces, and connected to the electrical
                          power source on the module;
                     iv. at least one electrically powered axle; and
                                       SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                   PCT/CA20141000488
                                                   42
                      v. at least one of the powered vehicle assembly modules is steerable by interaction
                         of its module controller with the at least one powered axle thereof;
 5
        said central control network comprising:
                     vi. a central network bus extending through each interchangeable vehicle assembly
10                       module and connectible at each connecting module surface to the central network
                         bus extending through adjacent vehicle assembly modules;
                    vii. a module controller within each vehicle assembly module, connected to the
                         central network bus and the central power bus and capable of controlling any
15                       power or steering components thereon;
                   viii. a vehicle controller connected to the vehicle and the central network bus, which
                         can control the vehicle by interaction with the module controllers on the vehicle
                         assembly modules; and
20
                     ix, an operator interface is connected to the vehicle controller, and by which an
                         operator can drive and steer the vehicle.
25  30. The central control network of Claim 29, wherein the module controller on at least one vehicle
        assembly module is connected to an accessory module requiring operator control, and the vehicle
        controller allows an operator to control said accessory module by the operator interface.
30  31. The central control network of Claim 29, wherein the central network bus connection between at
        least one pair of adjacent connecting module surfaces is a wired connection.
                                      SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                  PCT/CA20141000488
                                                    43
    32. The central control network of Claim 29, wherein the central network bus connection between at
        least one pair of adjacent connecting module surfaces is a wireless connection.
 5  33. An interchangeable vehicle assembly module for use in the assembly of a modular electric
        vehicle comprising:
             a. an axis extending between its two axial ends oriented in the direction of travel of the
                 assembled vehicle, and having at least one connecting module surface at an axial end
10               thereof for structural attachment to an adjoining connecting module surface of an
                 adjacent vehicle assembly module;
             b. a central power bus connectible to the central power bus of adjacent vehicle assembly
                 modules at adjoining module surfaces;.
15
             c.  a central network bus connectible to the central network bus of adjacent vehicle assembly
                 modules at adjoining module surfaces;
             d. a module controller connected to the central power bus and the central network bus;
20
    34. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 having two connecting module
         surfaces at ends of the axis thereof.
25
    35. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 having only one connecting module
         surface for attachment at an end of the assembled vehicle, being a terminal vehicle assembly
         module.
30
    36. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 35 further comprising network
         terminators for the central network bus.
                                       StBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

   WO 2014/194409                                                                 PCT/CA20141000488
                                                   44
    37. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 35 further comprising power terminators
        for the central power bus.
 5
    38. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 further comprising:
             a.  at least one powered axle operatively connected to the central power bus and the central
                 network bus and capable of being controlled by the corresponding module controller; and
10
             b. an electrical power source on the module connected to the central power bus,
    39. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 38 wherein at least one powered axle is
15      steerable, allowing for steering of an assembled vehicle including the module.
    40. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 further comprising an electric power
         source connected to the central power bus.
20
    41. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 further comprising accessory module
         attachment points for the attachment of at least one accessory module thereto.
25
    42. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 further comprising at least one
         accessory module network connection for connection of an accessory module to the central
         network bus.
30
    43. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 further comprising at least one
         accessory module power connection for connection of an accessory module to the central power
         bus.
                                      SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

  WO 2014/194409                                                             PCT/CA20141000488
                                               45
   44. The interchangeable vehicle assembly module of Claim 33 wherein each connecting module
       surface contains a symmetrical attachment mechanism which will allow for interchangeable
       connection of said connecting module surface with the connecting module surface of another
5      vehicle assembly module.
                                    UBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
