                                          ABSTRACT
  In certain aspects, the present invention provides compositions comprising polypeptides
  that are derived from ActRIIB for modulating (promoting or inhibiting) growth of a
  tissue, such as bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, brown fat and/or neuronal tissue and for
5 treating metabolic disorders such as diabetes and obesity, as well as disorders associated
  with any of the foregoing tissue.

                     TRUNCATED ACTRIIB-FC FUSION PROTEINS
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
 5 No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos.
   61/268,420, filed on June 12, 2009, 61/280,543, filed on November 3, 2009. These
   applications are hereby incorperated by reference in their entireties.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10         The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily contains a variety
   of growth factors that share common sequence elements and structural motifs. These
   proteins are known to exert biological effects on a large variety of cell types in both
   vertebrates and invertebrates. Members of the superfamily perform important functions
   during embryonic development in pattern formation and tissue specification and can
15 influence a variety of differentiation processes, including adipogenesis, myogenesis,
   chondrogenesis, cardiogenesis, hematopoiesis, neurogenesis, and epithelial cell
   differentiation. The family is represented by proteins named, variously, the activins and
   inhibins, TGF-beta, Growth and Differentiation Factors (GDFs) and Bone
   Morphogenetic Factors (BMPs). Other members of the family are also known, such as
20 Nodal and Lefty. By manipulating the activity of a member of the TGF-beta family, it is
   often possible to cause significant physiological changes in an organism. For example,
   the Piedmontese and Belgian Blue cattle breeds carry a loss-of-function mutation in the
   GDF8 (also called myostatin) gene that causes a marked increase in muscle mass.
   Grobet et al., Nat Genet. 1997, 17(1):71-4. Furthermore, in humans, inactive alleles of
25 GDF8 are associated with increased muscle mass and, reportedly, exceptional strength.
   Schuelke et al., N Engl J Med 2004, 350:2682-8.
           Changes in muscle, bone, fat, cartilage and other tissues may be achieved by
   agonizing or antagonizing signaling that is mediated by an appropriate TGF-beta family

   member. Thus, there is a need for agents that function as potent regulators of signaling
  by members of the TGF-beta superfamily.
  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
5         In certain aspects, the present disclosure provides novel ActRIIB polypeptides,
  particularly amino- and carboxy-terminal truncations and sequence alterations. In one
  embodiment, polypeptides including amino acids 25-131 of human ActRIIB (SEQ ID
  NO:1)

   or variants thereof, are described. Such polypeptides are demonstrated to have surprising
   efficacy in the treatment of a variety of disorders, but particularly disorders associated with
   obesity, insulin resistance and other metabolic disorders. ActRIIB polypeptides disclosed
   herein can be used to have a variety of desirable effects in patients, including, for example,
 5 increasing lean body mass, decreasing white fat mass, increasing brown fat mass, decreasing
   serum triglycerides, decreasing serum insulin levels or decreasing serum free fatty acid
   levels. ActRIIB polypeptides disclosed herein may be used for the treatment of a variety of
   disorders or conditions, including muscle and neuromuscular disorders (e.g., muscular
   dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and muscle atrophy), adipose tissue disorders
 0 (e.g., obesity, fatty liver disease), metabolic disorders (e.g., type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance,
   metabolic syndrome), neurodegenerative disorders, and muscle wasting associated with old
   age (sarcopenia), prostate cancer therapy (e.g., androgen deprivation therapy), and cachexia
   associated with a variety of cancers. Examples of ActRIIB polypeptides include a human
   ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein set forth in SEQ ID NO:8 and described herein as ActRIIB(25
 5 131)-hFe.
            In certain aspects, the disclosure provides novel polypeptides that are derived from
   ActRIIB (referred to as ActRIIB polypeptides). In some embodiments, a polypeptide may be
   selected from the group consisting of: a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence
   wherein the amino acid sequence consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO:8 or an amino acid
,0 sequence that differs from SEQ ID NO:8 at no more than one, two, three, four or five amino
   acid positions; a polypeptide produced by the expression in a mammalian cell of the nucleic
   acid of SEQ ID NO: 4 or a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent condition to the
   complement thereof; a polypeptide produced by the expression in a mammalian cell of the
   nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO:6 or a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent conditions to
.5 the complement thereof. A polypeptide disclosed herein may comprise a portion derived
   from ActRIIB and one or more heterologous portions, wherein the portion derived from
   ActRIIB may comprise an amino acid sequence consisting of the sequence of amino acids 25
   131 of SEQ ID NO:I or an amino acid sequence that differs the sequence of amino acids 25
    131 of SEQ ID NO: I at no more than one, two, three, four or five amino acid positions. The
;0 heterotogous portion may comprise a constant domain of an immunoglobulin, an Fc domain
   of an immunoglobulin or, particularly, an Fc domain of a human IgG I (the term "human
   IgG I shall be understood to include variants of such Fc that are compatible with use in
   humans). ActRIIB polypeptides may include a portion derived from ActRIIB that comprises
                                                     -2-

   an amino acid sequence consisting of the sequence of amino acids 25-131 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
   An ActRflB polypeptide disclosed herein may be such that the amino terminus has the
   sequence ETR. An ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may cause a statistically significant
   increase in lean body mass in a mouse after four weeks of treatment twice per week at a dose
5  level of 10 mg/kg. The mean increase of lean tissue mass may be at least 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 or
   more grams. An ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may cause a statistically significant
   decrease in fat mass in a mouse fed a high fat diet after four weeks of treatment twice per
   week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg. The mean decrease in fat mass may be 5, 7, 10, 15 or more
   grams. An ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may cause a statistically significant
0  decrease in serum triglyceride levels in a mouse fed a high fat diet after four weeks of
   treatment twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg. The mean decrease in serum
   triglycerides may be at least 50, 75, 100, 125 or 150 or more mg/dI. An ActRIIB polypeptide
   disclosed herein may cause a statistically significant decrease in serum free fatty acid levels
   in a mouse fed a high fat diet after four weeks of treatment twice per week at a dose level of
5  10 mg/kg. The mean decrease in free fatty acids may be at least 500, 750, 1000 or more
   micromoles/dl free fatty acids. An ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may cause a
   statistically significant decrease in serum insulin levels in a mouse fed a high fat diet after
   four weeks of treatment twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg. The mean decrease in
   serum insulin may be at least 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2 or more ng/ml insulin. As used herein, the term
.0 "statistically significant" generally refers to a p value or >0.05, but other measures of
   significance may be recognized for different types of statistical tests, and in such cases, the
   term "statistically significant" should use the most widely used formula for assessing the
   significance of the data. ActRlIB polypeptides may comprise at least one N-linked sugar,
   and may include two, three or more N-linked sugars. Such polypeptides may also comprise
!5 0-linked sugars. ActRIlB polypeptides may be produced in a variety of cell lines that
   glycosylate the protein in a manner that is suitable for patient use, including engineered insect
   or yeast cells, and mammalian cells such as COS cells, CHO cells, HEK cells and NSO cells.
   ActRIIB polypeptides may form covalent or non-covalent diners, including homodimers.
   Generally, Fc fusion proteins tend to form homodimers that are covalently linked. Any of the
0  foregoing polypeptides may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical preparation.
            In certain aspects, the ActRIIB polypeptides disclosed herein bind to an ActRIIB
   ligand such as GDF8, GDF1 1, activin, BMP7, GDF3 or nodal. Optionally, an ActRIIB
   polypeptide binds to an ActRIIB ligand with a Kd less than 10 micromolar or less than 1
                                                      -3-

   micromolar, 100, 10, 1 or 0.1 nanomolar. An ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may
   include one, two, three, four, five or more alterations in the amino acid sequence (e.g., in the
   ligand-binding domain) relative to a naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. The alteration
   in the amino acid sequence may, for example, alter glycosylation of the polypeptide when
5  produced in a mammalian, insect or other eukaryotic cell or alter proteolytic cleavage of the
   polypeptide relative to the naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. An ActRIIB
   polypeptide may be a fusion protein that has, as one domain, an amino acid sequence derived
   from ActRIIB (e.g., a ligand-binding domain of an ActRIIB or a variant thereof) and one or
   more additional domains that provide a desirable property, such as improved
0  pharmacokinetics, easier purification, targeting to particular tissues, etc. For example, a
   domain of a fusion protein may enhance one or more of in vivo stability, in vivo half life,
   uptake/administration, tissue localization or distribution, formation of protein complexes,
   multimerization of the fusion protein, and/or purification. An ActRIIB fusion protein may
   include an immunoglobulin Fe domain (wild-type or mutant) or a serum albumin. In certain
5  embodiments, an ActRIIB-Fc fusion comprises a relatively unstructured linker positioned
   between the Fc domain and the extracellular ActRIIB domain. This unstructured linker may
   correspond to the roughly 15 amino acid unstructured region at the C-terminal end of the
   extracellular domain of ActRiIB (the "tail"), or it may be an artificial sequence of between 5
   and 15, 20, 30, 50 or more amino acids that are relatively free of secondary structure. A
.0 linker may be rich in glycine and proline residues and may, for example, contain repeating
   sequences of threonine/serine and glycines (e.g., TG 4 or SG 4 repeats). In the context of a
   polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:8, it appears to be advantageous to use a short, flexible linker,
   such as one, two, three, four or five glycine residues, optionally with one or more small
   residues such as alanine, threonine or sene. A fusion protein may include a purification
!5 subsequence, such as an epitope tag, a FLAG tag, a polybistidine sequence, and a GST
   fusion. Optionally, an ActRIIB polypeptide includes one or more modified amino acid
   residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid, a PEGylated amino acid, a farnesylated
   amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated amino acid, an amino acid conjugated to
   a lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an organic derivatizing agent.
0          In certain aspects, an ActRIIB polypeptide may be formulated as a pharmaceutical
   preparation. A pharmaceutical preparation will preferably be pyrogen free (meaning pyrogen
   free to the extent required by regulations governing the quality of products for therapeutic
                                                    -4-

   use). A pharmaceutical preparation may also include one or more additional compounds such
   as a compound that is used to treat an ActRIIB-associated disorder.
   In certain aspects, the disclosure provides nucleic acids encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide.
   Such a nucleic acid may comprises a nucleic acid sequence of 73-396 of SEQ ID NO:4 or
 5 one that hybridizes under stringent conditions to the complement of nucleotides 73-396 of
   SEQ ID NO:4. A nucleic acid may one that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:4. Such
   a nucleic acid may comprises a nucleic acid sequence of 73-396 of SEQ ID NO:6 or one that
   hybridizes under stringent conditions to the complement of nucleotides 73-396 of SEQ ID
   NO:6. A nucleic acid may one that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:6. In certain
 0 aspects, an ActRlIB protein may be expressed in a mammalian cell line that mediates suitably
   natural glycosylation of the ActRIIB protein so as to diminish the likelihood of an
   unfavorable immune response in a patient (including the possibility of veterinary patients).
   Human and CHO cell lines have been used successfully, and it is expected that other common
   mammalian expression vectors will be useful. Thus the disclosure provides cultured cells
 5 comprising any of the nucleic acids disclosed herein. Such cells may be mammalian cells,
   including CHO cells, NSO cells, HEK cells and COS cells. Other cells may be chosen
   depending on the species of the intended patient. Other cells are disclosed herein. Cultured
   cells are understood to mean cells maintained in laboratory or other man-made conditions
   (e.g., frozen, or in media) and not part of a living organism.
.0          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for making a ActRIIB polypeptide.
   Such a method may include expressing any of the nucleic acids (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4 or 6, and
   nucleic acids that hybridize thereto under stringent conditions) disclosed herein in a suitable
   cell, such as a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell. Such a method may comprise: a) culturing
   a cell under conditions suitable for expression of the ActRIIB polypeptide, wherein said cell
.5 is transformed with an ActRIlB expression construct; and b) recovering the ActRIIB
   polypeptide so expressed. ActRJIB polypeptides may be recovered as crude, partially
   purified or highly purified fractions using any of the well known techniques for obtaining
   protein from cell cultures as well as techniques described herein.
            In certain aspects the disclosure provides methods for treating a subject having a
;0 disorder associated with muscle loss or insufficient muscle growth. Such a method may
   comprise administering to the subject an effective amount of any of the foregoing ActRIIB
   polypeptides or pharmaceutical preparations thereof
                                                     -5-

           In certain aspects the disclosure provides methods for increasing the lean mass or
   reducing the rate of loss of lean mass in a subject in need thereof Such a method may
   comprise administering to the subject an effective amount of any of the foregoing ActRIIB
   polypeptides or pharmaceutical preparations thereof
 5         In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for decreasing the body fat content
   or reducing the rate of increase in body fat content in a subject. Such a method may comprise
   administering to the subject an effective amount of any of the foregoing ActRIIB
   polypeptides or pharmaceutical preparations thereof
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for treating a disorder associated
 0 with undesirable body weight gain in a subject. Such a method may comprise administering
   to the subject an effective amount of any of the foregoing ActRIIB polypeptides or
   pharmaceutical preparations thereof.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for treating a metabolic disorder in
   a subject. Such a method may comprise administering to the subject an effective amount of
 5 any of the foregoing ActRIIB polypeptides or pharmaceutical preparations thereof. A patient
   eligible for treatment may have one or more of the following characteristics: elevated serum
   triglyceride levels; elevated free fatty acid levels; or elevated serum insulin levels. Examples
   of metabolic disorders include type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance and
   obesity.
.0         In certain aspects, an ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may be used in a method
   for treating a subject having a disorder associated with muscle loss or insufficient muscle
   growth. Such disorders include muscle atrophy, muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral
   sclerosis (ALS), and a muscle wasting disorder (e.g., cachexia, anorexia, DMD syndrome,
   BMD syndrome, AIDS wasting syndrome, muscular dystrophies, neuromuscular diseases,
.5 motor neuron diseases, diseases of the neuromuscular junction, and inflammatory
   myopathies). A method may comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective
   amount of an ActRIIB polypeptide,
           In certain aspects, an ActRilB polypeptide disclosed herein may be used in a method
   for decreasing the body fat content or reducing the rate of increase in body fat content, and
;0 for treating a disorder associated with undesirable body weight gain, such as obesity, non
   insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), cardiovascular disease, cancer, hypertension,
   osteoarthritis, stroke, respiratory problems, and gall bladder disease. These methods may
                                                     -6-

   comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of an ActRIIB
   polypeptide.
           In certain specific aspects, an ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may be used in a
   method for treating a disorder associated with abnormal activity of GDF8. Such disorders
 5 include metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, metabolic
   syndrome (e.g., syndrome X), and insulin resistance induced by trauma (e.g., bums or
   nitrogen imbalance); adipose tissue disorders (e.g., obesity); muscular dystrophy (including
   Duchenne muscular dystrophy); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); muscle atrophy; organ
   atrophy; frailty; carpal tunnel syndrome; congestive obstructive pulmonary disease;
 0 sarcopenia, cachexia and other muscle wasting syndromes; osteoporosis; glucocorticoid
   induced osteoporosis; osteopenia; osteoarthritis; osteoporosis-related fractures; low bone
   mass due to chronic glucocorticoid therapy, premature gonadal failure, androgen suppression,
   vitamin D deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism, nutritional deficiencies, and anorexia
   nervosa. The method may comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective
 5 amount of an ActRIIB polypeptide.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides a method for identifying an agent that
   stimulates growth of a tissue such as bone, cartilage, muscle and fat,. The method comprises:
   a) identifying a test agent that binds to a ligand-binding domain of an ActRILB polypeptide
   competitively with an ActRIIB polypeptide; and b) evaluating the effect of the agent on
.0 growth of the tissue.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for antagonizing activity of an
   ActRIIB polypeptide or an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., GDF8, GDFI l, activin, GDF3, BMP7, and
   Nodal) in a cell. The methods comprise contacting the cell with an ActRIIB polypeptide.
   Optionally, the activity of the ActRIIB polypeptide or the ActRIIB ligand is monitored by a
.5 signaling transduction mediated by the ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complex, for example, by
   monitoring cell proliferation. The cells of the methods include an osteoblast, a chondrocyte,
   a myocyte, an adipocyte and a muscle cell.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides uses of an ActRIIB polypeptide for making
   a medicament for the treatment of a disorder or condition as described herein.
 0
                                                     -7-

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 shows the full, unprocessed amino acid sequence for ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc
   (SEQ ID NO:3). The TPA leader (residues 1-22) and double-truncated ActRIIB extracellular
   domain (residues 24-131, using numbering based on the native sequence in SEQ ID NO: 1)
 5 are each underlined. Highlighted is the glutamate revealed by sequencing to be the N
   terminal amino acid of the mature fusion protein, which is at position 25 relative to SEQ ID
   NO:1.
           Figure 2 shows a nucleotide sequence encoding ActRllB(25-131)-hFc (the coding
   strand is shown at top, SEQ ID NO:4, and the complement shown at bottom 3'-5', SEQ ID
 0 NO:5). Sequences encoding the TPA leader (nucleotides 1-66) and ActRIIB extracellular
   domain (nucleotides 73-396) are underlined. The corresponding amino acid sequence for
   ActRIIB(25-131) is also shown.
           Figure 3 shows an alternative nucleotide sequence encoding ActRIIB(25-131 )-hFc
   (the coding strand is shown at top, SEQ ID NO:6, and the complement shown at bottom 3'
 5 5', SEQ ID NO:7). This sequence confers a greater level of protein expression in initial
   transformants, making cell line development a more rapid process. Sequences encoding the
   TPA leader (nucleotides 1-66) and ActRIIB extracellular domain (nucleotides 73-396) are
   underlined, and substitutions in the wild type nucleotide sequence of the ECD (see Figure 2)
   are highlighted. The corresponding amino acid sequence for ActRI1B(25--131) is also shown.
 0         Figure 4 shows the effect of four weeks treatment with ActRIIB(25-131 )-hFc on lean
   tissue mass in mouse. Vehicle was Tris-buffered saline (TBS). Data are means (n = 10 per
   group) + SEM. **, P < 0.01 vs. TBS by unpaired t-test. ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment
   increased lean tissue mass in a clear dose-dependent manner.
           Figure 5 shows the effect of four weeks treatment with ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc on
.5 pectoralis muscle mass in mouse. Vehicle was Tris-buffered saline (TBS). Data are means
   (n = 10 per group) ± SEM. *, P < 0.05 ; **, P < 0.01 vs. TBS by unpaired t-test.
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFec treatment increased pectoralis muscle mass in a clear dose-dependent
   manner.
           Figure 6 shows the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc treatment on grip strength in
;0 mouse. Vehicle was Tris-buffered saline (TBS). Data are means (n = 10 per group). **, P <
   0.01 vs. TBS by unpaired t-test. ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc treatment increased grip strength in a
   dose-dependent manner.
                                                   -8-

            Figure 7 shows the effect of four weeks treatment with ActRIIB(25-131 )-hFc on lean
   tissue mass in a mouse model of androgen deprivation. Vehicle was Tris-buffered saline
   (TBS). Data for orchidectornized (ORX) or sham-operated mice are means (n = 10 per
   group)     SD. ***, P < 0.001 vs. TBS control. ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc increased lean tissue
 5 mass as effectively as did its full-length counterpart ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc.
            Figure 8 shows the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc on lean tissue mass in a mouse
   model of diet-induced obesity. Vehicle was Tris-buffered saline (TBS). Data are means (n =
   9-10 per group). ***, P < 0.001 vs. TBS control, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc increased lean tissue
   mass effectively in mice fed a high fat diet.
 0          Figure 9 shows the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFec on fat mass in a mouse model of
   diet-induced obesity. Vehicle was Tris-buffered saline (TBS). Data are means (n = 9-10 per
   group) ± SD. *, P < 0.05; ***, P < 0.001 vs. TBS control. Compared to vehicle, ActRIIB(25
   13 1)-hFe treatment for 12 weeks reduced fat mass by approximately half in mice fed a high
   fat diet.
 5          Figure 10 depicts serum triglyceride concentrations in mice as a function of diet and
   ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days. Data are means        SEM. ***, P < 0.001. In
   mice fed a high-fat diet, ActRIlB(25-131 )-hFc reduced triglyceride concentrations by more
   than 50%, thereby normalizing triglycerides to levels observed in standard-diet controls.
            Figure 11 depicts serum free fatty acid (FFA) concentrations in mice as a function of
,0 diet and ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days. Data are means±SEM. ***, P <
   0.001. In mice fed a high-fat diet, ActRfIB(25-131)-hFC reduced FFA concentrations by
   nearly 55%, thereby normalizing FFA to levels observed in standard-diet controls.
            Figure 12 depicts serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) concentrations in mice as a
   function of diet and ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days. Data are means SEM.
 5 ***, P <0.001. In mice fed a high-fat diet, ActRIJB(25-131)-hFe reduced HDL
   concentrations by nearly 50%, thereby normalizing HDL to levels observed in standard-diet
   controls.
            Figure 13 depicts serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) concentrations in mice as a
   function of diet and ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days. Data are means SEM. *,
;0 P < 0.05. In mice fed a high-fat diet, ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc reduced LDL concentrations by
   more than 40%.
                                                    -9-

           Figure 14 depicts serum insulin concentrations in mice as a function of diet and
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc treatment for 60 days. Data are means SEM. **, P < 0.01. In mice
   fed a high-fat diet, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc reduced insulin concentrations by more than 60%,
   thereby normalizing insulin to levels observed in standard-diet controls.
 5         Figure 15 depicts serum adiponectin concentrations in mice as a function of diet and
   ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc treatment for 60 days. ELISA measurements detect all main
   oligomeric isoforms (total adiponectin), and data are means ± SEM. **, P < 0.01; ***, P <
   0.00 1. In mice fed a high-fat diet, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc increased adiponectin
   concentrations by more than 75% and even boosted adiponectin significantly above the levels
 0 observed in standard-diet controls.
           Figure 16 shows thermogenic histological changes induced within epididymal white
   adipose tissue by ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc treatment for 60 days in a mouse model of diet
   induced obesity. All microscopic images shown at the same magnification. Hematoxylin
   and eosin (H&E) staining indicates the ability of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc to reduce lipid droplet
 5 size and induce clusters of multilocular adipocytes (arrows) characteristic of brown fat.
   Immunostaining of non-adjacent sections reveals widespread cytoplasmic induction of UCP1
   (green fluorescence) in both multilocular and unilocular adipocytes.
           Figure 17 shows the effect of ActRllB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days on UCPI
   mRNA levels in epididymal white fat in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. Data
,0 obtained by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), in relative units (RU),
   are means ± SEM; n = 6-7 per group; *, p < 0.05. ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc caused a 60-fold
   increase in mRNA encoding this selective marker for brown fat, thus indicating upregulation
   of thermogenic capability within this white fat depot.
           Figure 18 shows levels of adiponectin mRNA in epididymal white fat of mice as a
.5 function of diet and ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days. RT-PCR data, in relative
   units (RU), are means ± SEM; n = 7 per group; *, p < 0.05. In mice fed a high-fat diet,
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc increased adiponectin mRNA levels by more than 60%, thus
   contributing to elevated concentrations of circulating adiponectin in these mice.
           Figure 19 shows the effect of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment for 60 days on fatty
;0 liver deposits (hepatic steatosis) in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. Liver sections (all
   shown at the same magnification) stained with Oil Red 0 reveal pronounced lipid deposition
   under high-fat dietary conditions but not control conditions. Arrows indicate several of many
                                                  -10 -

   densely packed lipid droplets, which are stained bright red but difficult to discern in black
   and-white images. ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc inhibited formation of such lipid droplets and
   largely restored the appearance of liver tissue to that of mice fed the standard diet.
           Figure 20 shows the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment for 35 days on the
 5 distribution of abdominal fat in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. Visceral and
   subcutaneous fat depots were detected and differentiated in vivo by micro-computed
   tomography (microCT) encompassing spinal cord segments TI 3-L5. N = 4 per group; scale
   bar = 5 mm. Compared to controls fed a high-fat diet, ActRIIB(25-13 l)-mFe treatment
   reduced the volume of both visceral and subcutaneous depots of abdominal fat.
 0         Figure 21 shows the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment for 60 days on the
   volume of visceral fat as determined by microCT in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity.
   Data are means ±SEM; n      = 4 per group; ***, P <0.001. In mice fed a high-fat diet,
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc reduced the volume of visceral fat by more than 60% compared to
   vehicle.
 5         Figure 22 shows the effect of ActRIlB(25-131)-mFc treatment for 60 days on the
   volume of abdominal subcutaneous fat as determined by microCT in a mouse model of diet
   induced obesity. Data are means t SEM; n = 4 per group; ***, P < 0.001. In mice fed a
   high-fat diet, ActRIlB(25-13 l)-mFc reduced the volume of subcutaneous fat by nearly 60%
   compared to vehicle.
.0         Figure 23 shows photographs of bilateral pairs of interscapular brown fat depots as a
   function of diet and ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment for 60 days in a mouse model of diet
   induced obesity. High-fat diet increased the size and lightened the color of the depots,
   whereas ActRIIB(25-13 l)-mFc largely reversed these changes.
           Figure 24 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment for 60 days on the
.5 mass of interscapular brown fat in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. Data are means
   SEM for combined left and right depots;***, p < 0.001. ActRIlB(25-131)-mFe reversed the
   effect of high-fat diet on the mass of this brown fat depot.
           Figure 25 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc treatment for 60 days on the
   density of interscapular brown fat as determined by microCT in a mouse model of diet
 0 induced obesity. Data (means ± SEM) are expressed in standardized units based on a positive
   value for the bone mineral hydroxyapatite (HA) and a value of zero for water; therefore, fat
   values are negative, with values for white fat typically close to -120. **, p <0.01.
                                                   -11-

   ActRlB(25-131)-mFc completely reversed the effect of high-fat diet on the density of this
   brown fat depot.
           Figure 26 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 l)-mFc treatment on lean tissue mass as
   determined in a mouse model of aging by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis at
 5 multiple time points. Data are means of 10-15 mice per group per time point; ***, P < 0.001
   vs. vehicle at same time point. After 7 weeks of dosing, lean tissue mass in aged mice treated
   with ActR]lB(25-131)-mFc increased nearly 20% from baseline, in contrast to essentially
   unchanged values in vehicle-treated controls.
           Figure 27 depicts the effect of ActlUIB(25-131)-mFec treatment on forelimb grip
 0 strength as determined at multiple time points in a mouse model of aging. Data are means of
    13-15 mice per group per time point; **, P < 0.01 vs. vehicle at same time point. Mice
   treated with ActRIlB(25-13 1)-mFc displayed an overall trend of increasing grip strength
   across the study, in contrast to the decline in grip strength observed in vehicle controls over
   the same interval.
 5         Figure 28 depicts the effect of ActRlIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment for 8 weeks on bone
   mineral density as determined in a mouse model of aging by dual energy x-ray
   absorptiometry (DEXA). Data are means t SEM; *, P < 0.05. Bone mineral density in aged
   mice treated with ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc (n = 10) increased significantly compared to
   vehicle-treated controls (n = 14).
.0         Figure 29 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment on whole-body fat
   mass as determined in a mouse model of aging by NMR analysis at multiple time points.
   Data are means of 10-15 mice per group per time point. ***, P <0.001 vs. vehicle at same
   time point. After 7 weeks of dosing, fat mass in aged mice treated with ActRIIB(25-131)
   mFc exhibited a percent decrease from baseline more than twice the magnitude of that in
.5 vehicle-treated controls.
           Figure 30 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment for 8 weeks on serum
   insulin concentrations in a mouse model of aging. Data are means ± SEM; *, P < 0.05.
   Insulin concentrations in aged mice treated with ActR11B(25-131 )-mFc (n = 10) were reduced
   by more than 40% compared to vehicle-treated controls (n = 14).
 0         Figure 31 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFec treatment for 8 weeks on
   circulating glycated hemoglobin (AIC) concentrations. Data are means ±SEM; n = 5-6 per
   group; **, P < 0.01. ActRIIB(25-13 I)-mFc significantly reduced concentrations of glycated
                                                    - 12 -

   hemoglobin, a widely accepted indicator of average blood glucose concentrations over an
   extended period.
            Figure 32 depicts the effect of ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc treatment for 5 weeks on lean
   tissue mass as determined by NMR analysis in a mouse model of cancer cachexia. Data are
 5 means ± SEM; ***, P < 0.001. In tumor-implanted mice, vehicle treatment (n = 7) was
   associated with a 7% loss in lean tissue mass, whereas ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment (n
   12) caused a 27% gain in lean tissue mass from baseline.
 0 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   1.       Overview
            In certain aspects, the present disclosure relates to ActRIIB polypeptides. As used
   herein, the term "ActRIIB" refers to a family of activin receptor type IIB (ActRIIB) proteins
   and ActRIIB-elated proteins, derived from any species. Members of the ActRIB family are
 5 generally all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain
   with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted
   serine/threonine kinase specificity.
            The term "ActRIIB polypeptide" is used to refer to polypeptides comprising any
   naturally occurring polypeptide of an ActRIIB family member as well as any variants thereof
.0 (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful
   activity. For example, ActRIIB polypeptides include polypeptides derived from the sequence
   of any known ActRIIB having a sequence at least about 80% identical to the sequence of an
   ActRIIB polypeptide, and preferably at least 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or greater identity.
            The human ActRIIB precursor has the following amino acid sequence, with the signal
.5 peptide underlined, the extracellutar domain indicated in bold, and the potential N-linked
   glycosylation sites boxed (SEQ ID NO: 1) (NM_001106, 512 aa).
            MTAPWVALALLWGSLWPGSGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERT                   QSGLERCEGEQDERLEC
            YASWP SSGTIELVKKGCWLDfDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPE
            AGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTLLTVLAYSLLPIGGLSLIVLLAFWMYRHRKPPYGHVDI-HEDPG
 0          PPPPSPLVGLKPLQLLEIKARGRFGCVWKAQLMNDFVAVKIFPLQDKQSWQSEREIFST
            PGMKHENLLQFIAAEKRGSNLEVELWLITAFHDKGSLTDYLKGNIITWNELCHVAETMS
                                                     - 13 -

            RGLSYL HE DVPWCRGEGHKPS IAHRDFKSKNVLLKS DLTAVLADFGLAVRFEPGKPPGD
            THGQVGTRRYMAPEVLEGAINFQRDAFLRI DMYAMGLVLWELVSRCKAADGPVDEYMLP
            FEEEIGQHPSLEELQEVVVHKKMRPTIKDHWLKHPGLAQLCVTIEECWDHDAEARLSAG
            CVEERVSLIRRSVNGTTSDCLVSLVTSVTNVDLPPKESSI
5            ActR1IB polypeptides may include any naturally occurring extracellular domain of an
   ActRIIB protein as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments and
   peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful activity, For example, the extracellular domain of
   an ActRIIB protein binds to a ligand and is generally soluble. The signal sequence can be a
   native signal sequence of an ActRIIB, or a signal sequence from another protein, such as a
0  tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) signal sequence or a honey bee melatin (HBM) signal
   sequence.
            In part the disclosure provides a novel ActRIIB polypeptide that is truncated, such
   that the portion derived from ActRIII is from amino acids 25-131 of SEQ ID NO:1. As
   shown herein, polypeptides of this type when administered as an Fc construct, ActRIIB(25
5   13 I)-hFc, promote the formation of lean body mass (primarily muscle) and the loss of fat
   mass, while also having marked desirable effects on metabolic parameters such as serum
   triglycerides, serum free fatty acids and serum insulin levels. Remarkably, ActRIIB(25-1 31)
   hFec has a much greater effect on these metabolic parameters than does a related protein,
   ActRIIB(20-134). These data are presented in the Examples below.
.0          TGF-P signals are mediated by heteromeric complexes of type I and type I shrine/
   threonine kinase receptors, which phosphorylate and activate downstream Smad proteins
   upon ligand stimulation (Massagu6, 2000, Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol, 1:169-178). These type I
   and type 11 receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding
   extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic
!5 domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for
   signaling; and type 11 receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I
   receptors. Type I and 11 activin receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding,
   resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors.
            Two related type I1receptors, ActRIIA and ActRIIB, have been identified as the type
0  II receptors for activins (Mathews and Vale, 1991, Cell 65:973-982; Attisano et al., 1992,
   Cell 68: 97-108). Besides activins, ActRIIA and ActRIIB can biochemically interact with
   several other TGF-P family proteins, including BMP7, Nodal, GDF8, and GDF1 I (Yamashita
   et al., 1995, J. Cell Biol. 130:217-226; Lee and McPherron, 2001, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
                                                    - 14 -

   98:9306-9311; Yeo and Whitman, 2001, Mol. Cell 7: 949-957; Oh et al., 2002, Genes Dev.
    16:2749-54).
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to antagonizing a ligand of
   ActRIIB receptors (also referred to as an ActRIB ligand) with a subject ActRIIB polypeptide
 5 (e.g., an ActRilB-Fc polypeptide). Thus, compositions and methods of the present invention
   are usefulI for treating disorders associated with abnormal activity of one or more ligands of
   ActRIIB receptors. Exemplary ligands of ActRIIB receptors include some TGF-p family
   members, such as activin, Nodal, GDF3, GDF8, GDF 11, and BMP7.
             Activins are dimeric polypeptide growth factors and belong to the TGF-beta
 0 superfamily. There are three activins (A, B, and AB) that are homo/heterodimers of two
   closely related   P subunits (PAPA,  pIpu,  and pAPE). In the TGF-beta superfamily, activins are
   unique and multifunctional factors that can stimulate hormone production in ovarian and
   placental cells, support neuronal cell survival, influence cell-cycle progress positively or
   negatively depending on cell type, and induce mesodermal differentiation at least in
 5 amphibian embryos (DePaolo et al., 1991, Proc SocEp Biol Med. 198:500-512; Dyson et al.,
   1997, Curr Biol. 7:81-84; Woodruff, 1998, Biochem Pharmacol. 55:953-963). Moreover,
   erythroid differentiation factor (EDF) isolated from the stimulated human monocytic
   leukemic cells was found to be identical to activin A (Murata et al., 1988, PNAS, 85:2434).
   It was suggested that activin A acts as a natural regulator of erythropoiesis in the bone
.0 marrow. In several tissues, activin signaling is antagonized by its related heterodimer,
   inhibin. For example, during the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) from the
   pituitary, activin promotes FSH secretion and synthesis, while inhibin prevents FSH secretion
   and synthesis. Other proteins that may regulate activin bioactivity and/or bind to activin
   include follistatin (FS), follistatin-related protein (FSRP), a 2-macroglobulin, Cerberus, and
.5 endoglin, which are described below.
            Bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7), also called osteogenic protein-I (OP-1), is
   well known to induce cartilage and bone formation. In addition, BMP7 regulates a wide
   array of physiological processes. Notably, BMP7 has recently been identified as a key
   promoter of brown adipocyte differentiation (Tseng et al., 2008, Nature 454:1000-1004). In
;0 this study, genetic ablation of BMP7 led to scarcity of brown fat and nearly complete absence
   of UCP1 in marine embryos. Moreover, upregulation of BMP7 expression in mice by
   adenovirus administration increased brown fat mass and energy expenditure. Like activin,
   BMP7 binds to type II receptors, ActRIIA and ActRIIB. However, BMP7 and activin recruit
                                                     - 15 -

   distinct type I receptors into heteromeric receptor complexes. The major BMP7 type I
   receptor observed was ALK2, while activin bound exclusively to ALK4 (ActRIIB). BMP7
   and activin elicited distinct biological responses and activated different Smad pathways
   (Macias-Silva et al., 1998, J Biol Chem. 273:25628-36).
 5         Growth-and-Differentiation Factor-3 (GDF3), also known as Vg 1-related 2, plays an
   important role in embryonic development and has also been implicated in adipogenesis
   during adulthood. In brief, expression of GDF3 in white adipose tissue is correlated with
   body mass or obesity (Weisberg et al., 2003, J Clin Invest 112:1796-1808), and adenovirus
   mediated overexpression of GDF3 exaggerates the increase in adiposity observed under high
 0 fat dietary conditions in wildtype mice (Wang et al., 2004, Biochem Biophys Res Commun
   321:1024-1031). Importantly, mice with genetic ablation of GDF3 are healthy and
   essentially normal when maintained on a standard diet but are protected from obesity, and
   display an increased basal metabolic rate, when maintained on a high-fat diet (Shen et al.,
   2009, Mol Endocrinol 23:113-123). Taken together, these findings implicate GDF3
 5 specifically in diet-induced obesity and more generally in the regulation of adiposity.
           Nodal proteins have functions in mesoderm and endoderm induction and formation,
   as well as subsequent organization of axial structures such as heart and stomach in early
   embryogenesis. It has been demonstrated that dorsal tissue in a developing vertebrate
.0 embryo contributes predominantly to the axial structures of the notochord and pre-chordal
   plate while it recruits surrounding cells to form non-axial embryonic structures. Nodal
   appears to signal through both type I and type II receptors and intracellular effectors known
   as Smad proteins. Recent studies support the idea that ActRIIA and ActRIIB serve as type 11
   receptors for Nodal (Sakuma et al., Genes Cells. 2002, 7:401-12). It is suggested that Nodal
!5 ligands interact with their co-factors (e.g., cripto) to activate activin type I and type H
   receptors, which phosphorylate Smad2. Nodal proteins are implicated in many events critical
   to the early vertebrate embryo, including mesoderm formation, anterior patterning, and left
   right axis specification. Experimental evidence has demonstrated that Nodal signaling
   activates pAR3-Lux, a luciferase reporter previously shown to respond specifically to activin
 0 and TGF-beta. However, Nodal is unable to induce pTlx2-Lux, a reporter specifically
   responsive to bone morphogenetic proteins. Recent results provide direct biochemical
   evidence that Nodal signaling is mediated by both activin-TGF-beta pathway Smads, Smad2
   and Smad3. Further evidence has shown that the extracellular cripto protein is required for
   Nodal signaling, making it distinct from activin or TGF-beta signaling.
                                                     - 16 -

            Growth and Differentiation Factor-8 (GDF8) is also known as myostatin. GDF8 is a
   negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass. GDF8 is highly expressed in the developing and
   adult skeletal muscle. The GDF8 null mutation in transgenic mice is characterized by a
   marked hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the skeletal muscle (McPherron et al., Nature, 1997,
 5 387:83-90). Similar increases in skeletal muscle mass are evident in naturally occurring
   mutations of GDF8 in cattle (Ashmore et al., 1974, Growth, 38:501-507; Swatland and
   Kieffer, J. Anim. Sci., 1994, 38:752-757; McPherron and Lee, Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA,
   1997, 94:12457-12461; and Kambadur et al., Genome Res., 1997, 7:910-915) and, strikingly,
   in humans (Schuelke et al., N Engl I Med 2004;350:2682-8). Studies have also shown that
 0 muscle wasting associated with HIV-infection in humans is accompanied by increases in
   GDF8 protein expression (Gonzalez-Cadavid et al., PNAS, 1998, 95:14938-43). In addition,
   GDF8 can modulate the production of muscle-specific enzymes (e.g., creatine kinase) and
   modulate myoblast cell proliferation (WO 00/43781). The GDF8 propeptide can
   noncovalently bind to the mature GDF8 domain dimer, inactivating its biological activity
 5 (Miyazono et al. (1988) J. Biol. Chem., 263: 6407-6415; Wakefield et al. (1988) J. Biol.
   Chem., 263; 7646-7654; and Brown et al. (1990) Growth Factors, 3: 35-43). Other proteins
   which bind to GDF8 or structurally related proteins and inhibit their biological activity
   include follistatin, and potentially, follistatin-related proteins (Gamer et al. (1999) Dev. Biol.,
   208: 222-232).
 0          Growth and Differentiation Factor-Il (GDF 11), also known as BMP 11, is a secreted
   protein (McPherron et al., 1999, Nat. Genet. 22: 260-264). GDFI I is expressed in the tail
   bud, limb bud, maxillary and mandibular arches, and dorsal root ganglia during mouse
   development (Nakashima et al., 1999, Mech. Dev. 80: 185-189). GDFlI plays a unique role
   in patterning both mesodermal and neural tissues (Gamer et al., 1999, Dev Biol., 208:222
.5 32). GDF 11 was shown to be a negative regulator of chondrogenesis and myogenesis in
   developing chick limb (Gamer et al., 2001, Dev BioL. 229:407-20). The expression of
   GDF 11 in muscle also suggests its role in regulating muscle growth in a similar way to
   GDF8. In addition, the expression of GDFI I in brain suggests that GDF1 I may also possess
   activities that relate to the function of the nervous system. Interestingly, GDFI I was found
;0 to inhibit neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium (Wu et al., 2003, Neuron. 37:197-207).
   Hence, GDF 11 may have in vitro and in vivo applications in the treatment of diseases such as
   muscle diseases and neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis).
                                                      - 17 -

            In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of certain ActRIB
   polypeptides to antagonize the signaling of ActRIIB ligands generally, in any process
   associated with ActRIIB activity. Optionally, ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention may
   antagonize one or more ligands of ActRIIB receptors, such as activin, Nodal, GDF8, GDF1 1,
 5 and BMP7, and may therefore be useful in the treatment of additional disorders.
            Therefore, the present invention contemplates using ActRIIB polypeptides in treating
   or preventing diseases or conditions that are associated with abnormal activity of an ActRIIB
   or an ActRIIB ligand. ActRIIB or ActRIIB ligands are involved in the regulation of many
   critical biological processes. Due to their key functions in these processes, they may be
 0 desirable targets for therapeutic intervention. For example, ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g.,
   ActRIIB-Fc polypeptides) may be used to treat human or animal disorders or
   conditions. Example of such disorders or conditions include, but are not limited to, metabolic
   disorders such as type 2 diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, metabolic syndrome (e.g.,
   syndrome X), and insulin resistance induced by trauma (e.g., burns or nitrogen imbalance);
 5 adipose tissue disorders (e.g., obesity); muscle and neuromuscular disorders such as muscular
   dystrophy (including Duchenne muscular dystrophy); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS);
   muscle atrophy; organ atrophy; frailty; carpal tunnel syndrome; congestive obstructive
   pulmonary disease; and sarcopenia, cachexia and other muscle wasting syndromes. Other
   examples include osteoporosis, especially in the elderly and/or postmenopausal women;
.0 glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis; osteopenia; osteoarthritis; and osteoporosis-related
   fractures. Yet further examples include low bone mass due to chronic glucocorticoid therapy,
   premature gonadal failure, androgen suppression, vitamin D deficiency, secondary
   hyperparathyroidism, nutritional deficiencies, and anorexia nervosa. These disorders and
   conditions are discussed below under "Exemplary Therapeutic Uses." As noted, the
.5 truncated ActRIIB polypeptides disclosed herein appear to have particularly beneficial effects
   on metabolic parameters.
            The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art,
   within the context of this invention and in the specific context where each term is used.
   Certain terms are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification, to provide additional
 0 guidance to the practitioner in describing the compositions and methods of the invention and
   how to make and use them. The scope or meaning of any use of a term will be apparent from
   the specific context in which the term is used.
                                                    - 18-

           "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for
   the quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Typically,
   exemplary degrees of error are within 20 percent (%), preferably within 10%, and more
   preferably within 5% of a given value or range of values.
 5         Alternatively, and particularly in biological systems, the terms "about" and
   "approximately" may mean values that are within an order of magnitude, preferably within 5
   fold and more preferably within 2-fold of a given value. Numerical quantities given herein
   are approximate unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately"
   can be inferred when not expressly stated.
 0         The methods of the invention may include steps of comparing sequences to each
   other, including wild-type sequence to one or more mutants (sequence variants). Such
   comparisons typically comprise alignments of polymer sequences, e.g., using sequence
   alignment programs and/or algorithms that are well known in the art (for example, BLAST,
   FASTA and MEGALIGN, to name a few). The skilled artisan can readily appreciate that, in
 5 such alignments, where a mutation contains a residue insertion or deletion, the sequence
   alignment will introduce a "gap" (typically represented by a dash, or "A") in the polymer
   sequence not containing the inserted or deleted residue.
           "Homologous," in all its grammatical forms and spelling variations, refers to the
   relationship between two proteins that possess a "common evolutionary origin," including
,0 proteins from superfamilies in the same species of organism, as well as homologous proteins
   from different species of organism. Such proteins (and their encoding nucleic acids) have
   sequence homology, as reflected by their sequence similarity, whether in terms of percent
   identity or by the presence of specific residues or motifs and conserved positions.
           The term "sequence similarity," in all its grammatical forms, refers to the degree of
.5 identity or correspondence between nucleic acid or amino acid sequences that may or may
   not share a common evolutionary origin.
           However, in common usage and in the instant application, the term "homologous,"
   when modified with an adverb such as "highly," may refer to sequence similarity and may or
   may not relate to a common evolutionary origin.
 0
                                                   - 19 -

   2.      ActRIIB Polypeptides
           In certain aspects, the invention relates to ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g., ActRIIB-Fc
   polypeptides), and particularly truncated forms exemplified by polypeptides comprising
   amino acids 25-131 of SEQ ID NO: 1, and variants thereof. Optionally, the fragments,
 5 functional variants, and modified forms have similar or the same biological activities of their
   corresponding wild-type ActRIlB polypeptides. For example, an ActRIIB variant of the
   invention may bind to and inhibit function of an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., activin A, activin AB,
   activin B, Nodal, GDF8, GDFI 1 or BMP7). Optionally, an ActRIIB polypeptide modulates
   growth of tissues such as bone, cartilage, muscle or fat or metabolic parameters such as
 0 triglycerides, free fatty acids or insulin. Examples of ActRIIB polypeptides include human
   ActRIIB precursor polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 1), and Fe fusion proteins, e.g., SEQ ID Nos. 3
   and 8. Variations on these polypeptides may be prepared according to the following
   guidance. The numbering of amino acids in the ActRIIB polypeptides is based on the
   sequence of SEQ ID NO:1, regardless of whether the native leader sequence is used.
 5         The disclosure identifies functionally active portions and variants of ActRIIB.
   Applicants have ascertained that an Fc fusion protein having the sequence disclosed by
   Hilden et al. (Blood. 1994 Apr 15;83(8):2163-70), which has an Alanine at the position
   corresponding to amino acid 64 of SEQ ID NO: I (A64), has a relatively low affinity for
   activin and GDF- 11. By contrast, the same Fe fusion protein with an Arginine at position 64
.0 (R64) has an affinity for activin and GDF-1 1 in the low nanomolar to high picomolar range.
   Therefore, a sequence with an R64 is used as the wild-type reference sequence for human
   ActRIIB in this disclosure.
           Attisano et al. (Cell. 1992 Jan 10;68(1):97-108) showed that a deletion of the proline
   knot at the C-terminus of the extracellular domain of ActRIIB reduced the affinity of the
.5 receptor for activin. Mutations of P129 and P130 do not substantially decrease ligand
   binding.
           The ActRIIB ligand binding pocket is defined by residues Y31, N33, N35, L38
   through T41, E47, E50, Q53 through K55, L57, H58, Y60, S62, K74, W78 through N83,
   Y85, R87, A92, and E94 through F101. At these positions, it is expected that conservative
i0 mutations will be tolerated, although a K74A mutation is well-tolerated, as are R40A, K55A,
   F82A and mutations at position L79. R40 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that basic amino
   acids at this position will be tolerated. Q53 is R in bovine ActRIIB and K in Xenopus
                                                    - 20 -

   ActRIlB, and therefore amino acids including R, K,      Q, N and   H will be tolerated at this
   position. Thus, an ActRIIB protein may be one that comprises amino acids 25-131 and
   comprising no more than 1, 2, 5, 10 or 15 conservative amino acid changes in the ligand
   binding pocket, and zero, one or more non-conservative alterations at positions 40, 53, 55, 74,
 5 79 and/or 82 in the ligand binding pocket. Such a protein may retain greater than 80%, 90%,
   95% or 99% sequence identity to the sequence of amino acids 25-131 of SEQ ID NO: 1. Sites
   outside the binding pocket, at which variability may be particularly well tolerated, include the
   amino and carboxy termini of the extracellular domain (as noted above), and positions 42-46
   and 65-73. An asparagine to alanine alteration at position 65 (N65A) actually improves
 0 ligand binding in the A64 background, and is thus expected to have no detrimental effect on
   ligand binding in the R64 background. This change probably eliminates glycosylation at N65
   in the A64 background, thus demonstrating that a significant change in this region is likely to
   be tolerated. While an R64A change is poorly tolerated, R64K is well-tolerated, and thus
   another basic residue, such as H may be tolerated at position 64.
 5          ActRIIB is well-conserved across nearly all vertebrates, with large stretches of the
   extracellular domain conserved completely. Many of the ligands that bind to ActRIIB are also
   highly conserverd. Accordingly, comparisons of ActRIIB sequences from various vertebrate
   organisms provide insights into residues that may be altered. Therefore, an active, human
   ActRIIB may include one or more amino acids at corresponding positions from the sequence
,0 of another vertebrate ActRIIB, or may include a residue that is similar to that in the human or
   other vertebrate sequence. The following examples illustrate this approach to defining an
   active ActRIIB variant L46 is a valine in Xenopus ActRIIB, and so this position may be
   altered, and optionally may be altered to another hydrophobic residue, such as V, I or F, or a
   non-polar residue such as A. E52 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that this site may be tolerant
.5 of a wide variety of changes, including polar residues, such as E, D, K, R, H, S, T, P, G, Y
   and probably A. T93 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that a wide structural variation is
   tolerated at this position, with polar residues favored, such as S, K, R, E, D, H, G, P, G and
   Y. F108 is a Y in Xenopus, and therefore Y or other hydrophobic group, such as 1,V or L
   should be tolerated. El II is K in Xenopus, indicating that charged residues will be tolerated
;0 at this position, including D, R, K and H, as well as   Q and N.   RI 12 is K in Xenopus,
   indicating that basic residues are tolerated at this position, including R and H. A at position
   119 is relatively poorly conserved, and appears as P in rodents and V in Xenopus, thus
   essentially any amino acid should be tolerated at this position.
                                                    - 21 -

            Further N-linked glycosylation sites (N-X-S/T) may be added to an ActRIIB
   polypeptide, and may increase the serum half-life of an ActRIlB-Fc fusion protein, relative to
   the ActRIIB(R64)-Fc form. Examples of NX(T/S) sequences are found at 4244 (NQS) and
   65-67 (NSS), although the latter may not be efficiently glycosylated with the R at position 64.
 5 N-X-S/T sequences may be generally introduced at positions outside the ligand binding
   pocket. Particularly suitable sites for the introduction of non-endogenous N-X-S/T sequences
   include amino acids 20-29, 20-24, 22-25, 109-134, 120-134 or 129-134. N-X-S/T sequences
   may also be introduced into the linker between the ActRIIB sequence and the Fc or other
   fusion component. Such a site may be introduced with minimal effort by introducing an N in
 0 the correct position with respect to a pre-existing S or T, or by introducing an S or T at a
   position corresponding to a pre-existing N. Thus, desirable alterations that would create an
   N-linked glycosylation site are: A24N, R64N, S67N (possibly combined with an N65A
   alteration), E106N, R112N, G120N, E123N, P129N, A132N, R112S and R112T. AnySthat
   is predicted to be glycosylated may be altered to a T without creating an immunogenic site,
 5 because of the protection afforded by the glycosylation. Likewise, any T that is predicted to
   be glycosylated may be altered to an S. Thus the alterations S67T and S44T are
   contemplated. Likewise, in an A24N variant, an S26T alteration may be used. Accordingly,
   an ActRIIB variant may include one or more additional, non-endogenous N-linked
   glycosylation consensus sequences.
 0          The variations described may be combined in various ways. Additionally, there are
   amino acid positions in ActRIIB that are often beneficial to conserve. These include position
   64 (basic amino acid), position 80 (acidic or hydrophobic amino acid), position 78
   (hydrophobic, and particularly tryptophan), position 37 (acidic, and particularly aspartic or
   glutamic acid), position 56 (basic amino acid), position 60 (hydrophobic amino acid,
.5 particularly phenylalanine or tyrosine). Other positions that may be desirable to conserve are
   as follows: position 52 (acidic amino acid), position 55 (basic amino acid), position 81
   (acidic), 98 (polar or charged, particularly E, D, R or K).
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates making functional
   variants by modifying the structure of an ActRIIB polypeptide for such purposes as
 0 enhancing therapeutic efficacy, or stability (e.g., ex vivo shelf life and resistance to
   proteolytic degradation in vivo). Modified ActRIIB polypeptides can also be produced, for
   instance, by amino acid substitution, deletion, or addition. For instance, it is reasonable to
   expect that an isolated replacement of a leucine with an isoleucine or valine, an aspartate with
                                                    - 22 -

   a glutamate, a threonine with a serine, or a similar replacement of an amino acid with a
   structurally related amino acid (e.g., conservative mutations) will not have a major effect on
   the biological activity of the resulting molecule. Conservative replacements are those that
   take place within a family of amino acids that are related in their side chains. Whether a
 5 change in the amino acid sequence of an ActRIIB polypeptide results in a functional homolog
   can be readily determined by assessing the ability of the variant ActRIIB polypeptide to
   produce a response in cells in a fashion similar to the wild-type ActRIIB polypeptide, or to
   bind to one or more ligands, such as activin, GDF- II or myostatin in a fashion similar to wild
   type.
 0          In certain specific embodiments, the present invention contemplates making
   mutations in the extracellular domain (also referred to as ligand-binding domain) of an
   ActRIIB polypeptide such that the variant (or mutant) ActRIIB polypeptide has altered
   ligand-binding activities (e.g., binding affinity or binding specificity). In certain cases, such
   variant ActRIIB polypeptides have altered (elevated or reduced) binding affinity for a
 5 specific ligand. In other cases, the variant ActRIIB polypeptides have altered binding
   specificity for their ligands.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates specific mutations of the
   ActRIIB polypeptides so as to alter the glycosylation of the polypeptide. Such mutations
   may be selected so as to introduce or eliminate one or more glycosylation sites, such as 0
.0 linked or N-linked glycosylation sites. Asparagine-linked glycosylation recognition sites
   generally comprise a tripeptide sequence, asparagine-X-thmonine (where "X" is any amino
   acid) which is specifically recognized by appropriate cellular glycosylation enzymes. The
   alteration may also be made by the addition of, or substitution by, one or more serine or
   threonine residues to the sequence of the wild-type ActRiIB polypeptide (for 0-linked
.5 glycosylation sites). A variety of amino acid substitutions or deletions at one or both of the
   first or third amino acid positions of a glycosylation recognition site (and/or amino acid
   deletion at the second position) results in non-glycosylation at the modified tripeptide
   sequence. Another means of increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on an ActRIB
   polypeptide is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the ActRIB polypeptide.
 0 Depending on the coupling mode used, the sugar(s) may be attached to (a) arginine and
   histidine; (b) free carboxyl groups; (c) free sulfhydryl groups such as those of cysteine; (d)
   free hydroxyl groups such as those of serine, threonine, or hydroxyproline; (e) aromatic
   residues such as those of phenylalanine, tyrosine, or tryptophan; or (f) the aide group of
                                                    - 23 -

   glutamine. These methods are described in WO 87/05330 published Sep. 11, 1987, and in
   Aplin and Wriston (1981) CRC Crit. Rev. Biochem., pp. 259-306, incorporated by reference
   herein. Removal of one or more carbohydrate moieties present on an ActRIIB polypeptide
   may be accomplished chemically and/or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation may
 5 involve, for example, exposure of the ActRIIB polypeptide to the compound
   trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, or an equivalent compound. This treatment results in the
   cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or N
   acetylgalactosamine), while leaving the amino acid sequence intact. Chemical
   deglycosylation is further described by Hakimuddin et al. (1987) Arch. Biochem. Biophys.
 0 259:52 and by Edge et al. (1981) Anal. Biochem. 118:131. Enzymatic cleavage of
   carbohydrate moieties on ActRIlB polypeptides can be achieved by the use of a variety of
   endo- and exo-glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. (1987) Meth. Enzymol. 138:350.
   The sequence of an ActRIIB polypeptide may be adjusted, as appropriate, depending on the
   type of expression system used, as mammalian, yeast, insect and plant cells may all introduce
 5 differing glycosylation patterns that can be affected by the amino acid sequence of the
   peptide. In general, ActRIIB proteins for use in humans will be expressed in a mammalian
   cell line that provides proper glycosylation, such as HEK293 or CHO cell lines, although
   other mammalian expression cell lines are expected to be useful as well.
            This disclosure further contemplates a method of generating variants, particularly sets
.0 of combinatorial variants of an ActRIlB polypeptide, including, optionally, truncation
   variants; pools of combinatorial mutants are especially useful for identifying functional
   variant sequences. The purpose of screening such combinatorial libraries may be to generate,
   for example, ActRIIB polypeptide variants which have altered properties, such as altered
   pharmacokinetics, or altered ligand binding. A variety of screening assays are provided
.5 below, and such assays may be used to evaluate variants. For example, an ActRIIB
   polypeptide variant may be screened for ability to bind to an ActRIIB polypeptide, to prevent
   binding of an ActRIIB ligand to an ActRIIB polypeptide.
            The activity of an ActRIl   polypeptide or its variants may also be tested in a cell
   based or in vivo assay. For example, the effect of an ActRIIB polypeptide variant on the
 0 expression of genes involved in bone production in an osteoblast or precursor may be
   assessed. This may, as needed, be performed in the presence of one or more recombinant
   ActRIIB ligand protein (e.g., BMP7), and cells may be transfected so as to produce an
   ActRIIB polypeptide and/or variants thereof, and optionally, an ActRIIB ligand. Likewise,
                                                   - 24 -

   an ActRIIB polypeptide may be administered to a mouse or other animal, and one or more
   bone properties, such as density or volume may be assessed. The healing rate for bone
   fractures may also be evaluated. Similarly, the activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide or its
   variants may be tested in muscle cells, adipocytes, and neuronal cells for any effect on
 5 growth of these cells, for example, by the assays as described below. Such assays are well
   known and routine in the art. A SMAD-responsive reporter gene may be used in such cell
   lines to monitor effects on downstream signaling.
           Combinatorially-derived variants can be generated which have a selective potency
   relative to a naturally occurring ActRIlB polypeptide. Such variant proteins, when expressed
 0 from recombinant DNA constructs, can be used in gene therapy protocols. Likewise,
   mutagenesis can give rise to variants which have intracellular half-lives dramatically different
   than the corresponding a wild-type ActRIIB polypeptide. For example, the altered protein
   can be rendered either more stable or less stable to proteolytic degradation or other processes
   which result in destruction of, or otherwise inactivation of a native ActRIIB polypeptide.
 5 Such variants, and the genes which encode them, can be utilized to alter ActRIIB polypeptide
   levels by modulating the half-life of the ActRIlB polypeptides. For instance, a short half-life
   can give rise to more transient biological effects and, when part of an inducible expression
   system, can allow tighter control of recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide levels within the cell.
           In certain embodiments, the ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention may further
.0 comprise post-translational modifications in addition to any that are naturally present in the
   ActRIIB polypeptides. Such modifications include, but are not limited to, acetylation,
   carboxylation, glycosylation, phosphorylation, lipidation, and acylation. As a result, the
   modified ActRIIB polypeptides may contain non-amino acid elements, such as polyethylene
   glycols, lipids, poly- or mono-saccharide, and phosphates. Effects of such non-amino acid
.5 elements on the functionality of a ActRIIB polypeptide may be tested as described herein for
   other ActRIIB polypeptide variants. When an ActRIIB polypeptide is produced in cells by
   cleaving a nascent form of the ActRIIB potypeptide, post-translational processing may also
   be important for correct folding and/or function of the protein. Different cells (such as CHO,
   HeLa, MDCK, 293, W138, NIH-3T3 or HEK293) have specific cellular machinery and
 0 characteristic mechanisms for such post-translational activities and may be chosen to ensure
   the correct modification and processing of the ActRIIB polypeptides.
           In certain aspects, functional variants or modified forms of the ActRIIB polypeptides
   include fusion proteins having at least a portion of the ActRIIB polypeptides and one or more
                                                    - 25 -

   fusion domains. Well known examples of such fusion domains include, but are not limited
   to, polyhistidine, Glu-Glu, glutathione S transferase (GST), thioredoxin, protein A, protein G,
   an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region (e.g., an Fc), maltose binding protein
   (MBP), or human serum albumin. A fusion domain may be selected so as to confer a desired
 5 property. For example, some fusion domains are particularly useful for isolation of the fusion
   proteins by affinity chromatography. For the purpose of affinity purification, relevant
   matrices for affinity chromatography, such as glutathione-, amylase-, and nickel- or cobalt
   conjugated resins are used. Many of such matrices are available in "kit" form, such as the
   Pharmacia GST purification system and the QLAexpress' M system (Qiagen) useful with
 0 (HIS 6 ) fusion partners. As another example, a fusion domain may be selected so as to
   facilitate detection of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Examples of such detection domains
   include the various fluorescent proteins (e.g., GFP) as well as "epitope tags," which are
   usually short peptide sequences for which a specific antibody is available. Well known
   epitope tags for which specific monoclonal antibodies are readily available include FLAG,
 5 influenza virus haemagglutinin (HA), and c-myc tags. In some cases, the fusion domains
   have a protease cleavage site, such as for Factor Xa or Thrombin, which allows the relevant
   protease to partially digest the fusion proteins and thereby liberate the recombinant proteins
   therefrom. The liberated proteins can then be isolated from the fusion domain by subsequent
   chromatographic separation. In certain preferred embodiments, an ActRUB polypeptide is
.0 fused with a domain that stabilizes the ActRIIB polypeptide in vivo (a "stabilizer" domain).
   By "stabilizing" is meant anything that increases serum half life, regardless of whether this is
   because of decreased destruction, decreased clearance by the kidney, or other
   pharmacokinetic effect. Fusions with the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin are known to
   confer desirable pharmacokinetic properties on a wide range of proteins. Likewise, fusions to
!5 human serum albumin can confer desirable properties. Other types of fusion domains that
   may be selected include multimerizing (e.g., dimerizing, tetramerizing) domains and
   functional domains (that confer an additional biological function, such as further stimulation
   of muscle growth).
            As a specific example, the present invention provides a fusion protein as a GDF8
;0 antagonist which comprises an extracellular (e.g., OD8-binding) domain fused to an Fc
   domain (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 9).
   THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVD(A)VSHEDPEVKFNWYVDG
   VEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCK(A)VSNKALPVPIEKTISKAK
                                                    - 26 -

   GQPREPQVYTLPPSRE.EMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDG
   PFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHN(A)HYTQKSLSLSPGK*
            Optionally, the Fe domain has one or more mutations at residues such as Asp-265,
   lysine 322, and Asn-434. In certain cases, the mutant Fe domain having one or more of these
 5 mutations (e.g., Asp-265 mutation) has reduced ability of binding to the Fey receptor relative
   to a wildtype Fe domain. In other cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
   mutations (e.g., Asn-434 mutation) has increased ability of binding to the MHC class I
   related Fe-receptor (FcRN) relative to a wildtype Fe domain.
            It is understood that different elements of the fusion proteins may be arranged in any
 0 manner that is consistent with the desired functionality. For example, an ActRIIB
   polypeptide may be placed C-terminal to a heterologous domain, or, alternatively, a
   heterologous domain may be placed C-terminal to an ActRIIB polypeptide. The ActRIIB
   polypeptide domain and the heterologous domain need not be adjacent in a fusion protein,
   and additional domains or amino acid sequences may be included C- or N-terminal to either
 5 domain or between the domains.
            In certain embodiments, the ActRIlB polypeptides of the present invention contain
   one or more modifications that are capable of stabilizing the ActRIB polypeptides. For
   example, such modifications enhance the in vitro half life of the ActRIIB polypeptides,
   enhance circulatory half life of the ActRIIB polypeptides or reducing proteolytic degradation
,0 of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Such stabilizing modifications include, but are not limited to,
   fusion proteins (including, for example, fusion proteins comprising an ActRIIB polypeptide
   and a stabilizer domain), modifications of a glycosylation site (including, for example,
   addition of a glycosylation site to an ActRIIB polypeptide), and modifications of
   carbohydrate moiety (including, for example, removal of carbohydrate moieties from an
.5 ActRlIB polypeptide). In the case of fusion proteins, an ActRIIB polypeptide is fused to a
   stabilizer domain such as an IgG molecule (e.g., an Fe domain). As used herein, the term
   "stabilizer domain" not only refers to a fusion domain (e.g., Fc) as in the case of fusion
   proteins, but also includes nonproteinaceous modifications such as a carbohydrate moiety, or
   nonproteinaceous polymer, such as polyethylene glycol.
 0          In certain embodiments, the present invention makes available isolated and/or purified
   forms of the ActRIIB polypeptides, which are isolated from, or otherwise substantially free
   of, other proteins.
                                                    - 27  -

           In certain embodiments, ActRIIB polypeptides (unmodified or modified) of the
   invention can be produced by a variety of art-known techniques. For example, such ActRIIB
   polypeptides can be synthesized using standard protein chemistry techniques such as those
   described in Bodansky, M. Principles of Peptide Synthesis, Springer Verlag, Berlin (1993)
 5 and Grant G. A. (ed.), Synthetic Peptides: A User's Guide, W. H. Freeman and Company,
   New York (1992). In addition, automated peptide synthesizers are commercially available
   (e.g., Advanced ChemTech Model 396; Milligen/Biosearch 9600). Alternatively, the
   ActRIIB polypeptides, fragments or variants thereof may be recombinantly produced using
   various expression systems (e.g., E. coli, Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, COS cells,
 0 baculovirus) as is well known in the art (also see below). In a further embodiment, the
   modified or unmodified ActRIIB polypeptides may be produced by digestion of naturally
   occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIB polypeptides by using, for
   example, a protease, e.g., trypsin, thermolysin, chymotrypsin, pepsin, or paired basic amino
   acid converting enzyme (PACE). Computer analysis (using a commercially available
 5 software, e.g., MacVector, Omega, PCGene, Molecular Simulation, Inc.) can be used to
   identify proteolytic cleavage sites. Alternatively, such ActRIIB polypeptides may be
   produced from naturally occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIB
   polypeptides such as standard techniques known in the art, such as by chemical cleavage
   (e.g., cyanogen bromide, hydroxylamine).
 0
   3.      Nucleic Acids Encoding ActRIIB Polypeptides
           In certain aspects, the invention provides isolated and/or recombinant nucleic acids
   encoding any of the ActRIIB polypeptides disclosed herein. For example, SEQ ID NO: 4
   encodes an ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFec precursor polypeptide, while SEQ ID NO: 6 encodes a the
.5 same protein but with an alternative sequence, and nucleotides 73-396 of each of SEQ ID
   Nos. 4 and 6 encode the ActRIIB-derived portion of the encoded proteins. The subject
   nucleic acids may be single-stranded or double stranded. Such nucleic acids may be DNA or
   RNA molecules. These nucleic acids are may be used, for example, in methods for making
   ActRIIB polypeptides.
 0         For example, the following sequence encodes a naturally occurring human ActRIIB
   precursor polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 2) (nucleotides 5-1543 ofNM_001106, 1539 bp):
                                                   - 28 -

         atgacggcgccctqggtggccctcgcecteetctggggatcgctgtqgcccggctct
         gggcgtggggaggtgagacagggagtgatctactacaacgccaactgggagetg
         gaqcgcaccaaccagagcggoctggaqcgctgcgaaggcgagcaggacaagcggctg
         caetgctacgcctcctggcgcaacagctctggcaccatcgagctgtgaagaagggc
 5       tgctggctagatgacttcaactgtacgataggcagagttgtggocactgaggag
         aacocccaggtgtacttctgotgotgtgaaggcaacttctgcaacgagogcttcact
         catttgccagaggctgggggcccggaagtcacgtagagccacccccgacagoccc
         accctgctcacggtgotggcctaotcactgctgcccatcgggggcctttccctcatc
         gtcotgctggcottttggatgtacggatcgcaagcccccctacggtoatgtggac
 o       atccatgaggacoctgggcctccaocaccatcccctotggtgggcctgaagccactg
         cagctgctggagatcaaggctcgggggcqctttggctgtgtctgaaggcccagctc
         atgaatgactttgtagctgtcaagatcttcccactccaggacaagcagtcgtggcag
         agtgaacgggagatettcagcaeacetggeatgaagcacgagaacctgetacaqttc
         attgctgccgagaagcgaggetccaaectegaagtagagtgtggctcatcacggcc
 5       ttccatgacaagggctccctcacggattaectcaaggggaacatcateaeatgqaac
         gaaotgtgtcatgtagcagagaegatgtcaegaggcctetcatacctgcatgaggat
         gtgccctggtgccqtggcgagggccacaagecgtctattgcccacaqgggactttaaa
         agtaagaatgtattgctgaagagcgacctcacagecgtgctggctgactttggettg
         gctgttcgatttgagccagggaaacetccaggggacaeceacggacaggtaggeacg
VO       agacggtacatggctcctgaggtgctcgagggagccatcaacttccagagagatgcc
         ttcctgegcattgaeatgtatgecatggggttggtgctgtgggaqcttgtgtctcge
         tgcaaggctgcagacggaeccgtggatgagtacatgctgecctttgaggaagagatt
         ggccagcaccettcgttggaggagctgcaggaggtggtggtgeacaagaagatgagg
         cc Ca ceat ta aaga toetggt tgad ace cgggc ctgg ccc agct ttgt gtgac c
.5       atcgaggagtgctqggaeeatgatgcagaggetcgcttgtccgcgggctgtgtggag
         gagcgggtgtccctgattcggaggtcggteaaoggcaetaectcggactgtctegtt
         teectggtgaec tctgtcaccaatgtggae ctgeeecctaaagagteaagcat ctaa
         The following sequence encodes a human soluble (extracellular) ActRIIB polypeptide
   (SEQ ID NO: 10) (348 bp).
.0       tetgggegtggggaggctgagaeacgggagtgcatctactacaacgccaactgggag
         .ctggagegcaecaaecagageggcctggagegctgcgaaggcqagcaqgacaagegg
         ctgcactgctacgeetcctggegcaacagetctggcaceatcgagctegtgaagaag
         ggc tge tggc taga tgae t toac tgetac gata gg cdggagtg tgt ggc caot gag
         gagaaeeocaggtgtattctgotgctgtgaaggcaacttctgcaacgagcgctte
 5       actoatttgccagaggctgggggcocggaagtoacgtacgagecacecccgaoagcc
         occacc
                                             - 29 -

           In certain aspects, the subject nucleic acids encoding ActRIIB polypeptides are further
   understood to include nucleic acids that are variants of SEQ ID NO: 4 or 6. Variant
   nucleotide sequences include sequences that differ by one or more nucleotide substitutions,
   additions or deletions, such as allelic variants; and will, therefore, include coding sequences
 5 that differ from the nucleotide sequence of the coding sequence designated in SEQ ID NO: 4
   or 6.
           In certain embodiments, the invention provides isolated or recombinant nucleic acid
   sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ
   ID NO: 4 or 6, and particularly those portions thereof that are derived from ActRIIB
 0 (nucleotides 73-396). One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that nucleic acid
   sequences complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 or 6, and variants of SEQ ID NO: 4 are also
   within the scope of this invention. In further embodiments, the nucleic acid sequences of the
   invention can be isolated, recombinant, and/or fused with a heterologous nucleotide
   sequence, or in a DNA library.
 5         In other embodiments, nucleic acids of the invention also include nucleotide
   sequences that hybridize under highly stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence
   designated in SEQ ID NO: 4 or 6, complement sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 or 6, or fragments
   thereof (e.g., nucleotides 73-396). As discussed above, one of ordinary skill in the art will
   understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions which promote DNA hybridization
.0 can be varied. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand readily that appropriate
   stringency conditions which promote DNA hybridization can be varied. For example, one
   could perform the hybridization at 6.0 x sodium chloride/sodium citrate (SSC) at about 45 *C,
   followed by a wash of 2.0 x SSC at 50 C. For example, the salt concentration in the wash
   step can be selected from a low stringency of about 2.0 x SSC at 50 *C to a high stringency of
.5 about 0.2 x SSC at 50 *C. In addition, the temperature in the wash step can be increased from
   low stringency conditions at room temperature, about 22 *C, to high stringency conditions at
   about 65 *C. Both temperature and salt may be varied, or temperature or salt concentration
   may be held constant while the other variable is changed. In one embodiment, the invention
   provides nucleic acids which hybridize under low stringency conditions of 6 x SSC at mom
i0 temperature followed by a wash at 2 x SSC at room temperature.
           Isolated nucleic acids which differ from the nucleic acids as set forth in SEQ ID NO:
   4 or 6 due to degeneracy in the genetic code are also within the scope of the invention. For
                                                    - 30 -

   example, a number of amino acids are designated by more than one triplet. Codons that
   specify the same amino acid, or synonyms (for example, CAU and CAC are synonyms for
   histidine) may result in "silent" mutations which do not affect the amino acid sequence of the
   protein. However, it is expected that DNA sequence polymorphisms that do lead to changes
 5 in the amino acid sequences of the subject proteins will exist among mammalian cells. One
   skilled in the art will appreciate that these variations in one or more nucleotides (up to about
   3-5% of the nucleotides) of the nucleic acids encoding a particular protein may exist among
   individuals of a given species due to natural allelic variation. Any and all such nucleotide
   variations and resulting amino acid polymorphisms are within the scope of this invention.
 0         In certain embodiments, the recombinant nucleic acids of the invention may be
   operably linked to one or more regulatory nucleotide sequences in an expression construct.
   Regulatory nucleotide sequences will generally be appropriate to the host cell used for
   expression. Numerous types of appropriate expression vectors and suitable regulatory
   sequences are known in the art for a variety of host cells. Typically, said one or more
 5 regulatory nucleotide sequences may include, but are not limited to, promoter sequences,
   leader or signal sequences, ribosomal binding sites, transcriptional start and termination
   sequences, translational start and termination sequences, and enhancer or activator sequences.
   Constitutive or inducible promoters as known in the art are contemplated by the invention.
   The promoters may be either naturally occurring promoters, or hybrid promoters that
,0 combine elements of more than one promoter. An expression construct may be present in a
   cell on an episome, such as a plasmid, or the expression construct may be inserted in a
   chromosome. In a preferred embodiment, the expression vector contains a selectable marker
   gene to allow the selection of transformed host cells. Selectable marker genes are well
   known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.
.5         In certain aspects of the invention, the subject nucleic acid is provided in an
   expression vector comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide and
   operably linked to at least one regulatory sequence- Regulatory sequences are art-recognized
   and are selected to direct expression of the ActRIIB polypeptide. Accordingly, the term
   regulatory sequence includes promoters, enhancers, and other expression control elements.
 0 Exemplary regulatory sequences are described in Goeddel; Gene Expression Technology:
   Methods in Enzymology, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). For instance, any of a wide
   variety of expression control sequences that control the expression of a DNA sequence when
   operatively linked to it may be used in these vectors to express DNA sequences encoding an
                                                     -31 -

   ActRIlB polypeptide. Such useful expression control sequences, include, for example, the
   early and late promoters of SV40, tet promoter, adenovirus or cytomegalovirus immediate
   early promoter, RSV promoters, the Iac system, the tip system, the TAC or TRC system, T7
   promoter whose expression is directed by T7 RNA polymerase, the major operator and
 5 promoter regions of phage lambda , the control regions for fd coat protein, the promoter for
   3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, the promoters of acid phosphatase,
   e.g., Pho5, the promoters of the yeast a-mating factors, the polyhedron promoter of the
   baculovirus system and other sequences known to control the expression of genes of
   prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses, and various combinations thereof. It should
 0 be understood that the design of the expression vector may depend on such factors as the
   choice of the host cell to be transformed and/or the type of protein desired to be expressed.
   Moreover, the vector's copy number, the ability to control that copy number and the
   expression of any other protein encoded by the vector, such as antibiotic markers, should also
   be considered.
 5          A recombinant nucleic acid of the invention can be produced by ligating the cloned
   gene, or a portion thereof, into a vector suitable for expression in either prokaryotic cells,
   eukaryotic cells (yeast, avian, insect or mammalian), or both. Expression vehicles for
   production of a recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide include plasmids and other vectors. For
   instance, suitable vectors include plasmids of the types: pBR322-derived plasmids, pEMBL
,0 derived plasmids, pEX-derived plasmids, pBTac-derived plasmids and pUC-derived plasmids
   for expression in prokaryotic cells, such as E. coli.
            Some mammalian expression vectors contain both prokaryotic sequences to facilitate
   the propagation of the vector in bacteria, and one or more eukaryotic transcription units that
   are expressed in eukaryotic cells. The pcDNAI/amp, pcDNAI/neo, pRc/CMV, pSV2gpt,
.5 pSV2neo, pSV2-dhfr, pTk2, pRSVneo, pMSG, pSVT7, pko-neo and pHyg derived vectors
   are examples of mammalian expression vectors suitable for transfection of eukaryotic cells.
   Some of these vectors are modified with sequences from bacterial plasmids, such as pBR322,
   to facilitate replication and drug resistance selection in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
   Alternatively, derivatives of viruses such as the bovine papilloma virus (BPV-1), or Epstein
 0 Barr virus (pHEBo, pREP-derived and p205) can be used for transient expression of proteins
   in eukaryotic cells. Examples of other viral (including retroviral) expression systems can be
   found below in the description of gene therapy delivery systems. The various methods
   employed in the preparation of the plasmids and in transformation of host organisms are well
                                                    - 32 -

   known in the art. For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic
   cells, as well as general recombinant procedures, see Molecular CloningA
   LaboratoryManual,2nd Ed., ed. by Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press, 1989) Chapters 16 and 17. In some instances, it may be desirable to
 5 express the recombinant polypeptides by the use of a baculovirus expression system.
   Examples of such baculovirus expression systems include pVL-derived vectors (such as
   pVL 1392, pVL1393 and pVL941), pAcUW-derived vectors (such as pAcUWI), and
   pBlueBac-derived vectors (such as the B-gal containing pBlueBac III).
            In a preferred embodiment, a vector will be designed for production of the subject
 0 ActRIIB polypeptides in CHO cells, such as a Pcmv-Script vector (Stratagene, La Jolla,
   Calif.), pcDNA4 vectors (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) and pCI-neo vectors (Promega,
   Madison, Wisc.). As will be apparent, the subject gene constructs can be used to cause
   expression of the subject ActRilB polypeptides in cells propagated in culture, e.g., to produce
   proteins, including fusion proteins or variant proteins, for purification.
 5          This invention also pertains to a host cell transfected with a recombinant gene
   including a coding sequence (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4 or 6) for one or more of the subject
   ActRIIB polypeptide. The host cell may be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. For example,
   an ActRIIB polypeptide of the invention may be expressed in bacterial cells such as E. coli,
   insect cells (e.g., using a baculovirus expression system), yeast, or mammalian cells. Other
.0 suitable host cells are known to those skilled in the art.
            Accordingly, the present invention further pertains to methods of producing the
   subject ActRIIB polypeptides. For example, a host cell transfected with an expression vector
   encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide can be cultured under appropriate conditions to allow
   expression of the ActRIIB polypeptide to occur. The ActRIIB polypeptide may be secreted
.5 and isolated from a mixture of cells and medium containing the ActRIIB polypeptide.
   Alternatively, the ActRIIB polypeptide may be retained cytoplasmically or in a membrane
   fraction and the cells harvested, lysed and the protein isolated. A cell culture includes host
   cells, media and other byproducts. Suitable media for cell culture are well known in the art.
   The subject ActRiIB polypeptides can be isolated from cell culture medium, host cells, or
;0 both, using techniques known in the art for purifying proteins, including ion-exchange
   chromatography, gel filtration chromatography, ultrafiltration, electrophoresis, and
   immunoaffinity purification with antibodies specific for particular epitopes of the ActRIIB
                                                    - 33 -

   polypeptides. In a preferred embodiment, the ActRIIB polypeptide is a fusion protein
   containing a domain which facilitates its purification.
           In another embodiment, a fusion gene coding for a purification leader sequence, such
   as a poly-(His)/enterokinase cleavage site sequence at the N-terminus of the desired portion
 5 of the recombinant ActRlIB polypeptide, can allow purification of the expressed fusion
   protein by affinity chromatography using a Ni> metal resin. The purification leader
   sequence can then be subsequently removed by treatment with enterokinase to provide the
   purified ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., see Hochuli et at., (1987) J. Chromatography411:177;
   and Janknecht et al., PNAS USA 88:8972).
 0         Techniques for making fusion genes are well known. Essentially, the joining of
   various DNA fragments coding for different polypeptide sequences is performed in
   accordance with conventional techniques, employing blunt-ended or stagger-ended termini
   for ligation, restriction enzyme digestion to provide for appropriate termini, filling-in of
   cohesive ends as appropriate, alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining,
 5 and enzymatic ligation. In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by
   conventional techniques including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively, PCR
   amplification of gene fragments can be carried out using anchor primers which give rise to
   complementary overhangs between two consecutive gene fragments which can subsequently
   be annealed to generate a chimeric gene sequence (see, for example, CurrentProtocolsin
.0 MolecularBiology, eds. Ausubel et al., John Wiley & Sons: 1992).
   5.      Exemplary Therapeutic Uses
           In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) of the present
   invention can be used for treating or preventing a disease or condition that is associated with
.5 abnormal activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide and/or an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., GDF8). These
   diseases, disorders or conditions are generally referred to herein as "ActR]IB-associated
   conditions." In certain embodiments, the present invention provides methods of treating or
   preventing an individual in need thereof through administering to the individual a
   therapeutically effective amount of an ActRIIB polypeptide as described above. These
;0 methods are particularly aimed at therapeutic and prophylactic treatments of animals, and
   more particularly, humans.
                                                   - 34 -

            As used herein, a therapeutic that "prevents" a disorder or condition refers to a
   compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in
   the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the
   severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated
 5 control sample. The term "treating" as used herein includes prophylaxis of the named
   condition or amelioration or elimination of the condition once it has been established.
            ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complexes play essential roles in tissue growth as well as
   early developmental processes such as the correct formation of various structures or in one or
   more post-developmental capacities including sexual development, pituitary hormone
 0 production, and creation of bone and cartilage. Thus, ActRIIB-associated conditions include
   abnormal tissue growth and developmental defects. In addition, ActRIIB-associated
   conditions include, but are not limited to, disorders of cell growth and differentiation such as
   inflammation, allergy, autoimmune diseases, infectious diseases, and tumors.
            Exemplary conditions for treatment include neuromuscular disorders (e.g., muscular
 5 dystrophy and muscle atrophy), congestive obstructive pulmonary disease (and muscle
   wasting associated with COPD), muscle wasting syndrome, sarcopenia, cachexia, adipose
   tissue disorders (e.g., obesity), type 2 diabetes, and bone degenerative disease (e.g.,
   osteoporosis). Other exemplary conditions include musculodegenerative and neuromuscular
   disorders, tissue repair (e.g., wound healing), neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., amyotrophic
.0 lateral sclerosis), immunologic disorders (e.g., disorders related to abnormal proliferation or
   function of lymphocytes), and obesity or disorders related to abnormal proliferation of
   adipocytes.
            In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., ActRIIB-Fc polypeptides) of the
   invention are used as part of a treatment for a muscular dystrophy. The term "muscular
.5 dystrophy" refers to a group of degenerative muscle diseases characterized by gradual
   weakening and deterioration of skeletal muscles and sometimes the heart and respiratory
   muscles. Muscular dystrophies are genetic disorders characterized by progressive muscle
   wasting and weakness that begin with microscopic changes in the muscle. As muscles
   degenerate over time, the person's muscle strength declines. Exemplary muscular
;0 dystrophies that can be treated with a regimen including the subject ActRIIB polypeptides
   include: Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD),
   Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy (EDMD), Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy (LGMD),
   Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy (FSH or FSHD) (also known as Landouzy
                                                    - 35 -

   Dejerine), Myotonic Dystrophy (MMD) (also known as Steinert's Disease), Oculopharyngeal
   Muscular Dystrophy (OPMD), Distal Muscular Dystrophy (DD), Congenital Muscular
   Dystrophy (CMD).
           Ducherme Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) was first described by the French neurologist
 5 Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne in the 1860s. Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD) is
   named after the German doctor Peter Emil Becker, who first described this variant of DMD
   in the 1950s. DMD is one of the most frequent inherited diseases in males, affecting one in
   3,500 boys. DMD occurs when the dystrophin gene, located on the short arm of the X
   chromosome, is broken. Since males only carry one copy of the X chromosome, they only
 0 have one copy of the dystrophin gene. Without the dystrophin protein, muscle is easily
   damaged during cycles of contraction and relaxation. While early in the disease muscle
   compensates by regeneration, later on muscle progenitor cells cannot keep up with the
   ongoing damage and healthy muscle is replaced by non-functional fibro-fatty tissue.
           BMD results from different mutations in the dystrophin gene. BMD patients have
 5 some dystrophin, but it is either insufficient in quantity or poor in quality. Having some
   dystrophin protects the muscles of those with BMD from degenerating as badly or as quickly
   as those of people with DMD.
           For example, recent researches demonstrate that blocking or eliminating function of
   GDF8 (an ActRIIB ligand) in vivo can effectively treat at least certain symptoms in DMD
,0 and BMD patients. Thus, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides may act as GDF8 inhibitors
   (antagonists), and constitute an alternative means of blocking the functions of GDF8 and/or
   ActRIIB in vivo in DMD and BMD patients. This approach is confirmed and supported by
   the data shown herein, whereby an ActRIIB-Fc protein was shown to increase muscle mass in
   a mouse model of muscular dystrophy,
.5         Similarly, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides provide an effective means to increase
   muscle mass in other disease conditions that are in need of muscle growth. For example,
   ALS, also called Lou Gehrig's disease (motor neuron disease) is a chronic, incurable, and
   unstoppable CNS disorder that attacks the motor neurons, components of the CNS that
   connect the brain to the skeletal muscles. In ALS, the motor neurons deteriorate and
i0 eventually die, and though a person's brain normally remains fully functioning and alert, the
   command to move never reaches the muscles. Most people who get ALS are between 40 and
   70 years old. The first motor neurons that weaken are those leading to the arms or legs.
                                                    - 36 -

   Those with ALS may have trouble walking, they may drop things, fall, slur their speech, and
   laugh or cry uncontrollably. Eventually the muscles in the limbs begin to atrophy from
   disuse. This muscle weakness will become debilitating and a person will need a wheel chair
   or become unable to function out of bed. Most ALS patients die from respiratory failure or
 5 from complications of ventilator assistance like pneumonia, 3-5 years from disease onset.
   This approach is confirmed and supported by the data shown herein, whereby an ActRIIB-Fc
   protein was shown to improve the appearance, muscle mass and lifespan of a mouse model of
   ALS.
            ActRIIB polypeptide-induced increased muscle mass might also benefit those
 0 suffering from muscle wasting diseases. Gonzalez-Cadavid et al. (supra) reported that that
   GDF8 expression correlates inversely with fat-free mass in humans and that increased
   expression of the GDF8 gene is associated with weight loss in men with AIDS wasting
   syndrome. By inhibiting the function of GDF8 in AIDS patients, at least certain symptoms of
   AIDS may be alleviated, if not completely eliminated, thus significantly improving quality of
 5 life in AIDS patients.
            Since loss of GDF8 (an ActRIIB ligand) function is also associated with fat loss
   without diminution of nutrient intake (Zimmers et al., supra; McPherron and Lee, supra), the
   subject ActRIIB polypeptides may further be used as a therapeutic agent for slowing or
   preventing the development of obesity and type II diabetes. This approach is confirmed and
.0 supported by the data shown herein, whereby an ActRIB-Fc protein was shown to improve
   metabolic status in obese mice.
            In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) of the invention
   are used as part of a treatment for metabolic syndrome (also known as syndrome X and
   insulin resistance syndrome), which is a combination of disorders and risk factors that
.5 increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus type I. Most
   patients are older, obese, sedentary, and have some degree of insulin resistance. Central
   (abdominal or visceral) adiposity is a significant feature of the syndrome.
            In related embodiments, ActRIIB polypeptides and other compositions of the
   invention can be used as part of a treatment for diabetes mellitus type II (also known as non
i0 insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or adult-onset diabetes), which is characterized by
   elevated blood glucose in the context of insulin resistance and relative insulin deficiency.
   Complex and multifactorial metabolic changes in diabetes often lead to damage and
                                                   - 37 -

   functional impairment of many organs, most importantly the cardiovascular system. Diabetes
   mellitus type 11 is often associated with obesity (abdominal or visceral adiposity),
   hypertension, elevated cholesterol, and metabolic syndrome. Important risk factors for
   diabetes mellitus type I include aging, high-fat diets, and a sedentary lifestyle.
 5          In other related embodiments, ActRIIB polypeptides and other compositions of the
   invention can be used as part of a treatment for atherosclerosis, a chronic inflammatory
   condition in which artery walls thicken due to the accumulation of fatty deposits, often
   referred to as plaques. Risk factors for atherosclerosis include aging, diabetes mellitus,
   dyslipoproteinemia, obesity (abdominal or visceral adiposity), and a sedentary lifestyle.
 0          ActRIIB polypeptides can also be used for lipodystrophic disorders, which tend to be
   associated with metabolic syndrome. Severe insulin resistance can result from both genetic
   and acquired forms of lipodystrophy, including in the latter case human immunodeficiency
   virus (HIV)-related lipodystrophy in patients treated with antiretroviral therapy.
            The cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome is among the most debilitating and life
 5 threatening aspects of cancer. Progressive weight loss in cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome
   is a common feature of many types of cancer and is responsible not only for a poor quality of
   life and poor response to chemotherapy, but also a shorter survival time than is found in
   patients with comparable tumors without weight loss. Associated with anorexia, fat and
   muscle tissue wasting, psychological distress, and a lower quality of life, cachexia arises from
.0 a complex interaction between the cancer and the host. It is one of the most common causes
   of death among cancer patients and is present in 80% at death. It is a complex example of
   metabolic chaos effecting protein, carbohydrate, and fat metabolism. Tumors produce both
   direct and indirect abnormalities, resulting in anorexia and weight loss. Currently, there is no
   treatment to control or reverse the process. Cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome affects
.5 cytokine production, release of lipid-mobilizing and proteolysis-inducing factors, and
   alterations in intermediary metabolism. Although anorexia is common, a decreased food
   intake alone is unable to account for the changes in body composition seen in cancer patients,
   and increasing nutrient intake is unable to reverse the wasting syndrome. Cachexia should be
   suspected in patients with cancer if an involuntary weight loss of greater than five percent of
;0 premorbid weight occurs within a six-month period.
            Since systemic overexpression of GDF8 in adult mice was found to induce profound
   muscle and fat loss analogous to that seen in human cachexia syndromes (Zimmers et al.,
                                                   - 38 -

   supra), the subject ActRIIB polypeptides as pharmaceutical compositions can be beneficially
   used to prevent, treat, or alleviate the symptoms of the cachexia syndrome, where muscle
   growth is desired.
           In other embodiments, the present invention provides methods of inducing bone
 5 and/or cartilage formation, preventing bone loss, increasing bone mineralization or
   preventing the demineralization of bone. For example, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides and
   compounds identified in the present invention have application in treating osteoporosis and
   the healing of bone fractures and cartilage defects in humans and other animals. ActRIIB
   polypeptides may be useful in patients that are diagnosed with subclinical low bone density,
 0 as a protective measure against the development of osteoporosis.
           In one specific embodiment, methods and compositions of the present invention may
   find medical utility in the healing of bone fractures and cartilage defects in humans and other
   animals. The subject methods and compositions may also have prophylactic use in closed as
   well as open fracture reduction and also in the improved fixation of artificial joints. De novo
 5 bone formation induced by an osteogenic agent contributes to the repair of congenital,
   trauma-induced, or oncologic resection induced craniofacial defects, and also is useful in
   cosmetic plastic surgery. Further, methods and compositions of the invention may be used in
   the treatment of periodontal disease, and in other tooth repair processes. In certain cases, the
   subject ActRIIB polypeptides may provide an environment to attract bone-forming cells,
.0 stimulate growth of bone-forming cells or induce differentiation of progenitors of bone
   forming cells. ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of
   osteoporosis. Further, ActRIIB polypeptides may be used in cartilage defect repair and
   prevention/reversal of osteoarthritis.
           In another specific embodiment, the invention provides a therapeutic method and
.5 composition for repairing fractures and other conditions related to cartilage and/or bone
   defects or periodontal diseases. The invention further provides therapeutic methods and
   compositions for wound healing and tissue repair. The types of wounds include, but are not
   limited to, bums, incisions and ulcers. See e.g., PCT Publication No. W084/0 1106. Such
   compositions comprise a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the ActRIIB
;0 polypeptides of the invention in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, carrier
   or matrix.
                                                   - 39 -

            In another specific embodiment, methods and compositions of the invention can be
   applied to conditions causing bone loss such as osteoporosis, hyperparathyroidism, Cushing's
   disease, thyrotoxicosis, chronic diarrheal state or malabsorption, renal tubular acidosis,
   chronic renal failure or anorexia nervosa. Many people know that being female, having a low
 5 body weight, and leading a sedentary lifestyle are risk factors for osteoporosis (loss of bone
   mineral density, leading to fracture risk), However, osteoporosis can also result from the
   long-term use of certain medications. Osteopomsis resulting from drugs or another medical
   condition is known as secondary osteoporosis. In a condition known as Cushing's disease,
   the excess amount of cortisol produced by the body results in osteoporosis and fractures. The
 0 most common medications associated with secondary osteoporosis are the corticosteroids, a
   class of drugs that act like cortisol, a hormone produced naturally by the adrenal glands.
   Although adequate levels of thyroid hormones (which are produced by the thyroid gland) are
   needed for the development of the skeleton, excess thyroid hormone can decrease bone mass
   over time. Antacids that contain aluminum can lead to bone loss when taken in high doses by
 5 people with kidney problems, particularly those undergoing dialysis. Other medications that
   can cause secondary osteoporosis include phenytoin (Dilantin) and barbiturates that are used
   to prevent seizures; methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Immunex, Folex PFS), a drug for some forms
   of arthritis, cancer, and immune disorders; cyclosporine (Sandimmune, Neoral), a drug used
   to treat some autoimmune diseases and to suppress the immune system in organ transplant
.0 patients; luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists (Lupron, Zoladex), used to treat
   prostate cancer and endometriosis; heparin (Calciparine, Liquaemin), an anticlotting
   medication; and cholestyramine (Questran) and colestipol (Colestid), used to treat high
   cholesterol. Gum disease causes bone loss because these harmful bacteria in our mouths
   force our bodies to defend against them. The bacteria produce toxins and enzymes under the
!5 gum-line, causing a chronic infection.
            In other embodiments, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
   regulating body fat content in an animal and for treating or preventing conditions related
   thereto, and particularly, health-compromising conditions related thereto. According to the
   present invention, to regulate (control) body weight can refer to reducing or increasing body
;0 weight, reducing or increasing the rate of weight gain, or increasing or reducing the rate of
   weight loss, and also includes actively maintaining, or not significantly changing body weight
   (e.g., against external or internal influences which may otherwise increase or decrease body
                                                   - 40 -

   weight). One embodiment of the present invention relates to regulating body weight by
   administering to an animal (e.g., a human) in need thereof an ActRlIB polypeptide.
             In one specific embodiment, the present invention relates to methods and compounds
   for reducing fat mass and/or reducing gain of fat mass in an animal, and more particularly, for
 5 treating or ameliorating obesity in patients at risk for or suffering from obesity. In another
   specific embodiment, the present invention is directed to methods and compounds for treating
   an animal that is unable to gain or retain weight (e.g., an animal with a wasting syndrome).
   Such methods are effective to increase body weight and/or mass, or to reduce weight and/or
   mass loss, or to improve conditions associated with or caused by undesirably low (e.g.,
 0 unhealthy) body weight and/or mass.
   7.       Pharmaceutical Compositions
            In certain embodiments, compounds (e.g., ActRUIB polypeptides) of the present
   invention am formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example, an
 5 ActRIIB polypeptide can be administered alone or as a component of a pharmaceutical
   formulation (therapeutic composition). The subject compounds may be formulated for
   administration in any convenient way for use in human or veterinary medicine.
            In certain embodiments, the therapeutic method of the invention includes
   administering the composition topically, systemically, or locally as an implant or device.
.0 When administered, the therapeutic composition for use in this invention is, of course, in a
   pyrogen-free, physiologically acceptable form. Further, the composition may desirably be
   encapsulated or injected in a viscous form for delivery to a target tissue site (e.g., bone,
   cartilage, muscle, fat or neurons), for example, a site having a tissue damage. Topical
   administration may be suitable for wound healing and tissue repair. Therapeutically useful
.5 agents other than the ActRIIB polypeptides which may also optionally be included in the
   composition as described above, may alternatively or additionally, be administered
   simultaneously or sequentially with the subject compounds (e.g., ActRIB polypeptides) in
   the methods of the invention.
            In certain embodiments, compositions of the present invention may include a matrix
 0 capable of delivering one or more therapeutic compounds (e.g., ActRlfB polypeptides) to a
   target tissue site, providing a structure for the developing tissue and optimally capable of
   being resorbed into the body. For example, the matrix may provide slow release of the
                                                     -41-

   ActRIIB polypeptides. Such matrices may be formed of materials presently in use for other
   implanted medical applications.
            The choice of matrix material is based on biocompatibility, biodegradability,
   mechanical properties, cosmetic appearance and interface properties. The particular
 5 application of the subject compositions will define the appropriate formulation. Potential
   matrices for the compositions may be biodegradable and chemically defined calcium sulfate,
   tricalciumphosphate, hydroxyapatite, polylactic acid and polyanhydrides. Other potential
   materials are biodegradable and biologically well defined, such as bone or dermal collagen.
   Further matrices are comprised of pure proteins or extracellular matrix components. Other
 0 potential matrices are non-biodegradable and chemically defined, such as sintered
   hydroxyapatite, bioglass, aluminates, or other ceramics. Matrices may be comprised of
   combinations of any of the above mentioned types of material, such as polylactic acid and
   hydroxyapatite or collagen and tricalciumphosphate. The bioceramics may be altered in
   composition, such as in calcium-alurninate-phosphate and processing to alter pore size,
 5 particle size, particle shape, and biodegradability.
            In certain embodiments, methods of the invention can be administered for orally, e.g.,
   in the form of capsules, cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually
   sucrose and acacia or tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an
   aqueous or non-aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an
.0 elixir or syrup, or as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and
   acacia) and/or as mouth washes and the like, each containing a predetermined amount of an
   agent as an active ingredient. An agent may also be administered as a bolus, electuary or
   paste.
            In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
.5 powders, granules, and the like), one or more therapeutic compounds of the present invention
   may be mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate
   or dicalcium phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches,
   lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
   carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and/or acacia; (3)
;0 humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate,
   potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution
   retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium
   compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol
                                                     - 42 -

   monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a tale,
   calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and
   mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the
   pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a
 5 similar type may also be employed as filters in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using
   such excipients as lactose or milk sugars, as well as high molecular weight polyethylene
   glycols and the like.
           Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
   emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the
 0 active ingredient, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the
   art, such as water or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol,
   isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene
   glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive,
   castor, and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid
 5 esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also
   include adjuvants such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening,
   flavoring, coloring, perfuming, and preservative agents.
           Suspensions, in addition to the active compounds, may contain suspending agents
   such as ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol, and sorbitan esters,
.0 microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth,
   and mixtures thereof.
           Certain compositions disclosed herein may be administered topically, either to skin or
   to mucosal membranes. The topical formulations may further include one or more of the
   wide variety of agents known to be effective as skin or stratum comeum penetration
.5 enhancers. Examples of these are 2-pyrrolidone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
   dimethylacetamide, dimethylformamide, propylene glycol, methyl or isopropyl alcohol,
   dimethyl sulfoxide, and azone. Additional agents may further be included to make the
   formulation cosmetically acceptable. Examples of these are fats, waxes, oils, dyes,
   fragrances, preservatives, stabilizers, and surface active agents. Keratolytic agents such as
;0 those known in the art may also be included. Examples are salicylic acid and sulfur.
           Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration include powders, sprays,
   ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches, and inhalants. The active
                                                    - 43 -

   compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
   and with any preservatives, buffers, or propellants which may be required. The ointments,
   pastes, creams and gels may contain, in addition to a subject compound of the invention (e.g.,
   an ActRIIB polypeptide), excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins,
 5 starch, tragacanth, cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites, silicic
   acid, talc and zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof.
            Powders and sprays can contain, in addition to a subject compound, excipients such as
   lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates, and polyamide powder, or
   mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants, such as
 0 chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as butane and
   propane.
            In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral
   administration may comprise one or more ActRIIB polypeptides in combination with one or
   more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions,
 5 dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into
   sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use, which may contain antioxidants,
   buffers, bacteriostats, solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the
   intended recipient or suspending or thickening agents. Examples of suitable aqueous and
   nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the
.0 invention include water, ethanol, polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene
   glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof, vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and
   injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained, for
   example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required
   particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of surfactants.
.5          The compositions of the invention may also contain adjuvants, such as preservatives,
   wetting agents, emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of
   microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal
   agents, for example, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol sorbic acid, and the like. It may also be
   desirable to include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like into the
;0 compositions. In addition, prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may
   be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption, such as aluminum
   monostearate and gelatin.
                                                    - 44  -

            It is understood that the dosage regimen will be determined by the attending physician
   considering various factors which modify the action of the subject compounds of the
   invention (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides). The various factors will depend upon the disease to
   be treated.
 5          In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides gene therapy for the in
   vivo production of ActRIIB polypeptides or other compounds disclosed herein. Such therapy
   would achieve its therapeutic effect by introduction of the ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences
   into cells or tissues having the disorders as listed above. Delivery of ActRIIB polynucleotide
   sequences can be achieved using a recombinant expression vector such as a chimeric virus or
 0 a colloidal dispersion system. Preferred for therapeutic delivery of ActRIIB polynucleotide
   sequences is the use of targeted liposomes.
            Various viral vectors which can be utilized for gene therapy as taught herein include
   adenovirus, herpes virus, vaccinia, or, preferably, an RNA virus such as a retrovirus.
   Preferably, the retroviral vector is a derivative of a murine or avian retrovirus. Examples of
 5 retroviral vectors in which a single foreign gene can be inserted include, but are not limited
   to: Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMuLV), Harvey murine sarcoma virus (HaMuSV),
   urine mammary tumor virus (MuMTV), and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV). A number of
   additional retroviral vectors can incorporate multiple genes. All of these vectors can transfer
   or incorporate a gene for a selectable marker so that transduced cells can be identified and
.0 generated. Retroviral vectors can be made target-specific by attaching, for example, a sugar,
   a glycolipid, or a protein. Preferred targeting is accomplished by using an antibody. Those
   of skill in the art will recognize that specific polynucleotide sequences can be inserted into
   the retroviral genome or attached to a viral envelope to allow target specific delivery of the
   retroviral vector containing the ActRIIB polynucleotide. In one preferred embodiment, the
.5 vector is targeted to bone, cartilage, muscle or neuron cells/tissues.
            Alternatively, tissue culture cells can be directly transfected with plasmids encoding
   the retroviral structural genes gag, pot and env, by conventional calcium phosphate
   transfection. These cells are then transfected with the vector plasmid containing the genes of
   interest. The resulting cells release the retroviral vector into the culture medium.
 0          Another targeted delivery system for ActRIIB polynucleotides is a colloidal
   dispersion system. Colloidal dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes,
   nanocapsules, microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions,
                                                     - 45 -

   micelles, mixed micelles, and liposomes. The preferred colloidal system of this invention is a
   liposome. Liposomes are artificial membrane vesicles which are useful as delivery vehicles
   in vitro and in vivo. RNA, DNA and intact virions can be encapsulated within the aqueous
   interior and be delivered to cells in a biologically active form (see e.g., Fraley, et al., Trends
 5 Biochem. Sci., 6:77, 1981). Methods for efficient gene transfer using a liposome vehicle, are
   known in the art, see e.g., Mannino, et al., Biotechniques, 6:682, 1988. The composition of
   the liposome is usually a combination of phospholipids, usually in combination with steroids,
   especially cholesterol. Other phospholipids or other lipids may also be used. The physical
   characteristics of liposomes depend on pH, ionic strength, and the presence of divalent
 0 cations.
            Examples of lipids useful in liposome production include phosphatidyl compounds,
   such as phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine,
   phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingolipids, cerebrosides, and gangliosides. Illustrative
   phospholipids include egg phosphatidyicholine, dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, and
 5 distearoylphosphatidylcholine. The targeting of liposomes is also possible based on, for
   example, organ-specificity, cell-specificity, and organelle-specificity and is known in the art.
   EXEMPLIFICATION
            The invention now being generally described, it will be more readily understood by
 0 reference to the following examples, which are included merely for purposes of illustration of
   certain embodiments and embodiments of the present invention, and are not intended to limit
   the invention.
   Example 1. Generation of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc with Alternative Nucleotide Sequences
            To generate ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc, the human ActRIIB extracellular domain with N
.5 terminal and C-terminal truncations (residues 25-131 of the native protein) was fused N
   terminally with a TPA leader sequence substituted for the native ActRIIB leader and C
   terminally with a human Fc domain via a minimal linker (three glycine residues) (Figure 1).
   A nucleotide sequence encoding this fusion protein is shown in Figure 2. Applicants
   modified the codons and found a variant nucleic acid encoding the ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFec
;0 protein that provided substantial improvement in the expression levels of initial transformants
   (Figure 3).
                                                    - 46 -

           The mature protein has an amino acid sequence as follows (N-terminus confirmed by
   N-terminal sequencing)(SEQ ID NO: 8):
   ETRECIYYNA NWELERTNQS GLERCEGEQD KRLHCYASWR NSSGTIELVK
   KGCWLDDFNC YDRQECVATE ENPQVYFCCC EGNFCNERFT HLPEAGGPEV
 5 TYEPPPTGGG THTCPPCPAP ELLGGPSVFL FPPKPKDTLM ISRTPEVTCV
   VVDVSHEDPE VKFNWYVDGV EVHNAKTKPR EEQYNSTYRV VSVLTVLHQD
   WLNGKEYKCK VSNKALPAPI EKTISKAKGQ PREPQVYTLP PSREEMTKNQ
   VSLTCLVKGF YPSDIAVEWE SNGQPENNYK TTPPVLDSDG SFFLYSKLTV
   DKSRWQQGNV FSCSVMHEAL HNHYTQKSLS LSPGK
 0 Amino acids 1-107 are derived from ActRIIB.
           The expressed molecule was purified using a series of column chromatography steps,
   including for example, three or more of the following, in any order: Protein A
   chromatography,    Q sepharose   chromatography, phenylsepharose chromatography, size
   exclusion chromatography and cation exchange chromatography. The purification could be
 5 completed with viral filtration and buffer exchange.
   Example 2. High-Affinity Ligand Binding by ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc
           Affinities of several ligands for ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc and its full-length counterpart
   ActRIIB(20-134)-hFc were evaluated in vitro with a BiacoreTM instrument, and the results are
.0 summarized in the table below. Kd values were obtained by steady-state affinity fit due to
   very rapid association and dissociation of the complex, which prevented accurate
   determination of k. and kfr. ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc bound activin A, activin B, and GDF1 I
   with high affinity. Intriguingly, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc appears to show a higher affinity for
   GDF3 than ActRIlB(20-134)-hFc (data not shown).
.5 Ligand Affinities of ActRIIB-hFc Forms:
                   Fusion Construct             Activin A   Activin B     GDF11
                                                  (e-11)      (e-11)       (e-1l)
           ActRIIB(20-134)-hFe                          1.6          1.2        3.6
           ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc                          1.8          1.2        3.1
   Example 3. ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc Increases Muscle Mass and Strength In Vivo
 0         Applicants investigated the ability of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFec to increase muscle mass
   and strength in the mouse. Male mice (n = 10 per group) were treated subcutaneously twice
   per week with vehicle (Tris-buffered saline) or one of five doses of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc.
   Four weeks of treatment with ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc produced a clear dose-dependent
                                                   - 47 -

   increase in lean tissue mass (Figure 4), as determined by whole-body nuclear magnetic
   resonance (NMR) scanning. Increased muscle mass was confirmed at study termination for
   specific muscles, including the pectoralis (Figure 5), rectus femoris, and gastrocnemius.
   Importantly, increased muscle mass was accompanied by increased strength, as assessed by
 5 grip strength, compared to vehicle (Figure 6). These results provide compelling evidence that
   ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc increases both muscle mass and muscle strength in vivo.
   Example 4. ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc Prevents Muscle Loss in Mouse Model of Androgen
   Deprivation
 0         Applicants investigated the ability of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc to prevent muscle loss in
   a mouse model of androgen deprivation, a standard therapeutic intervention for advanced
   prostate cancer in men. Male mice (n = 10 per group) were orchidectomized (ORX) or sham
   operated and treated subcutaneously twice per week with TBS vehicle, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc
   at 10 mg/kg, or its full-length murine counterpart ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc at 10 mg/kg. Lean
 5 tissue mass was determined by whole-body NMR scan. ORX mice treated for four weeks
   with either of the ActRIIB-Fc forms displayed an increase in lean tissue mass from baseline,
   which was highly significant compared to the decrease observed in ORX controls over that
   period (Figure 7). An analogous, highly significant increase was observed under gonad-intact
   conditions for both ActRILB-Fc forms compared to sham controls (Figure 7). These results
.0 demonstrate that ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc can increase lean tissue mass (prevent muscle loss) as
   effectively as its full-length counterpart ActRIB(20-134)-mFc in this androgen deprivation
   model.
   Example 5. ActRIB(25-131)-hFc Improves Body Composition in Mouse Model of Diet
.5 Induced Obesity
           Applicants also investigated the ability of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc to increase muscle
   mass and reduce fat mass in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. Male mice (n = 10 per
   group) were fed either a standard chow diet or a high fat diet and treated intraperitoneally
   twice per week with TBS vehicle or ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc at 10 mg/kg. Lean tissue mass
 0 and fat mass were determined by whole-body NMR scan. Treatment of mice on the high fat
   diet with ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc for four weeks resulted in more than a 25% increase in lean
   tissue mass as compared to a 2% increase with vehicle treatment (Figure 8). Similar results
   were obtained in mice on the control diet with ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc as compared to vehicle
   (Figure 8). Moreover, continued treatment was found to improve adiposity. Compared to
                                                   - 48 -

   vehicle, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc treatment for 12 weeks reduced fat mass by approximately
   half in mice on the high fat diet as well as in those on the control diet (Figure 9).
           Taken together, these data demonstrate that ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc can be used to
 5 improve body composition in vivo under a variety of conditions, including androgen
   deprivation and high fat intake.
   Example 6: ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc Normalizes Serum Lipids, Insulin, and Adiponectin
   in Mouse Model of Diet-Induced Obesity
 0         Applicants investigated the effects of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc on serum concentrations
   of clinically important lipids, insulin, adiponectin, and on other metabolic endpoints in male
   mice fed a high-fat diet. Ten-week-old C57BL/6 mice were weight-matched and treated with
   ActRlIB(25-131)-hFc (n = 10) or Tris-buffered-saline (TBS) vehicle (n = 7) twice per week
   at 10 mg/kg, s.c., for 60 days. During this period, mice had unlimited access to a diet
 5 containing 58% fat instead of the standard chow containing 4.5% fat.
           ActRIIB(25-131 )-hFc treatment caused a constellation of noteworthy metabolic
   effects. In mice fed a high-fat diet, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc reduced the pathologically elevated
   serum concentrations of triglycerides, free fatty acids, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and
   low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (Figure 10-13), in most cases normalizing these parameters to
 0 levels observed in mice fed a standard diet. Importantly, ActRHIB(25-13 1)-hFc treatment
   also normalized insulin concentrations in high-fat-diet mice (Figure 14) and increased
   concentrations of adiponectin significantly above even those in mice fed a standard diet
   (Figure 15). Adiponectin is a key biomarker of body composition, as circulating adiponectin
   levels are known to vary inversely with fat mass/obesity, and adiponectin enhances insulin
.5 sensitivity in target tissues. ActRIIB(25-1 3 l)-hFc also reduced serum concentrations of
   leptin, another major indicator of adipocyte status, by nearly 50% (P < 0.05). Finally, the
   aforementioned effects were accompanied by beneficial changes in body composition, as
   determined by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) at baseline and Day 48. Under high-fat
   dietary conditions, total fat mass in vehicle-treated controls tripled during this 48-day period,
i0 and ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFec treatment cut this increase by nearly 40%. By Day 48, total fat
   mass was 27% of body weight in ActRIlB-Fc-treated mice vs. 39% in control mice, whereas
   lean tissue mass was 59% of body weight in ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc-treated mice vs. 55% in
                                                    - 49 -

    control mice. Thus, the net result was a healthier body composition under conditions of high
    fat diet.
             For the foregoing serum parameters, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc consistently outperformed
    ActRIIB(20-134)-hFc, which was also evaluated in this same study. Thus, ActRIIB(25-131)
 5  hFc improved triglyceride levels nearly 6 times as much, FFA levels nearly twice as much,
    HDL levels nearly 4 times as much, insulin levels more than twice as much, and adiponectin
    levels nearly 1.5 times as much as ActRlIB(20-134)-hFc did at the same dose.
    Example 7: ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc Induces Thermogenic Properties in White Fat in
 0  Mouse Model of Diet-Induced Obesity
             In the study described above (Example 6), Applicants also investigated effects of
    ActRIIB(25-13 I)-hFc on thermogenic properties of white adipose tissue. Under high-fat
    dietary conditions, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFe treatment triggered histological changes and a gene
    expression profile in white adipose tissue that were consistent with thermogenic capability.
 5  As shown in Figure 16, histological examination of epididymal white fat indicated that
    ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc reduced lipid droplet size and caused formation of clusters of
    multilocular adipocytes that are a hallmark of brown fat. Moreover, immunohistochemical
    analysis of this tissue revealed widespread cytoplasmic induction of UCP1 in both
    multilocular and unilocular adipocytes as a result of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc treatment (Figure
 .0 16).
             Accompanying these histological changes were significant changes in the expression
    of key thermogenic and metabolic regulatory genes in epididymal white fat, as determined by
    quantitative RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). In mice on the high
    fat diet, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment increased UCP1 mRNA levels more than 60-fold
.5  compared to vehicle (Figure 17), a particularly impressive change since this strain of mouse
    displays severely blunted induction of UCP I and brown adipocytes within key white fat
    depots compared to other mouse strains (Guerra et al., 1998, J Clin Invest 102:412-420; Xue
    et al., 2007, J Lipid Res 48:41-51). In addition, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment increased
    levels of mRNA encoding the sirtuin SIRT-l (silent information regulator two, homolog 1),
;0  an energy-sensitive master regulator (deacetylase) that protects against metabolic damage
    induced by a high-fat diet (Pfluger et aL, 2008, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 105:9793-9798) and
    is implicated as an important control of fatty acid mobilization (Rodgers et al, 2008, FEBS
                                                    - 50 -

   Lett 582:46-53). Significantly, ActRIB(25-131)-hFc treatment also increased levels of
   mRNA encoding PGC-la (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator
    Ia), a well-documented target of SIRT-1 that, in tum, controls expression of many genes
   necessary for mitochondrial biogenesis and thermogenic capability in brown adiopose tissue
 5 (Uldry et al., 2006, Cell Metab, 3:333-341). Notably, forced expression of PGC-la in white
   adipocytes has been shown to induce a thermogenic program of gene expression, including
   UCPl, closely resembling that in brown adipocytes (Hansen et al., 2006, Biochem J 398:153
   168). In the present study, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc restored PGC-la gene expression in white
   adipose tissue under high-fat dietary conditions to levels indistinguishable from those in mice
 0 fed the standard diet.
            Additional changes associated with treatment constitute a prominent link between the
   altered expression profile in white adipose tissue and beneficial hormonal and metabolic
   effects. Thus, in epididymal white fat, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc increased levels of mRNA
   encoding Foxo- I (forkhead box-containing, protein 0 subfamily-I), a transcription factor that
 5 is both a target of SIRT- I and a key inducer of adiponectin expression (Qiao et al., 2006, 3
   Biol Chem 281:39915-39924). Consistent with Foxo-l mRNA induction, ActRIB(25-131)
   hFc treatment raised levels of adiponectin mRNA in white fat (Figure 18), which helps to
   account for increased circulating levels of adiponectin (Figure 15, Example 6), enhanced
   insulin sensitivity in target tissues, and normalized insulin concentrations (Figure 14,
,0 Example 6) in these animals. In summary, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc treatment under high-fat
   dietary conditions resulted in 1) histological changes and a gene expression profile in white
   adipose tissue that were consistent with thermogenic capability and 2) beneficial changes in a
   wide range of hormonal and metabolic parameters.
.5 Example 8: Effects of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc on Liver and Muscle in Mouse Model of
   Diet-Induced Obesity
            Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a spectrum of increasingly common
   hepatic disorders widely considered to be the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome
   and characterized by fat accumulation in the liver (steatosis), often with deleterious effects.
i0 A subset of NAFLD patients develop an inflammatory condition referred to as nonalcoholic
   steatohepatitis (NASH), which can progress further to hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, and
   hepatocellular carcinoma (Perlemuter et al., 2007, Nat Clin Pract Endocrinol Metab 3:458
                                                    -51 -

   469). In the study described above (Examples 6-7), Applicants investigated whether
   ActRlIB(25-13 1)-hFec could inhibit hepatic steatosis associated with a high-fat diet. At study
   completion, hepatic tissue of mice fed the high-fat diet displayed large numbers of densely
   packed lipid droplets, as assessed by staining with Oil Red 0, whereas mice fed the standard
 5 diet showed no evidence of hepatic lipid deposits (Figure 19). Treatment with ActRIIB(25
   13 1)-hFe almost completely reversed hepatic lipid deposition and normalized the appearance
   of hepatic tissue despite the high-fat diet. Thus, ActRIIB(25-131 )-hFc was an effective
   inhibitor of hepatic steatosis caused by high-fat diet.
           ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc treatment also increased muscle mass in this model of diet
 0 induced obesity, consistent with findings in other models (Examples 3-5). Specifically,
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc increased pectoralis mass by more than 70% (P < 0.001),
   gastrocnemius mass by nearly 40% (P < 0.001), and rectus femoris mass by more than 25%
   (P < 0.001) compared to high-fat diet controls. These changes in muscle mass were
   accompanied by changes in muscle gene expression, as determined in gastrocnemius tissue
 5 by RT-PCR. Compared to high-fat diet controls, ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc increased PGC-la
   mRNA levels and Foxo-l mRNA levels by approximately 50% each (P < 0.05) in
   gastrocnemius.
   Example 9: Effect of ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc on Visceral White Fat in Mouse Model of
.0 Diet-Induced Obesity
           Accumulation of visceral fat, as opposed to subcutaneous fat, plays a critical role in
   the development of cardiovascular disease and obesity-related disorders such as diabetes
   mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and metabolic syndrome (Matsuzawa et al., 2006,
   FEBS Lett 580:2917-2921). Due to its location, visceral (or intra-abdominal) fat has ready
.5 access to the liver via the hepatic portal circulation, where it could influence metabolism,
   promote insulin resistance, and cause steatosis. Therefore, in a study similar to that described
   above (Examples 6-8), Applicants investigated effects of the truncated variant ActRIIB(25
   13 1)-mFc on the quantities of visceral fat vs. abdominal subcutaneous fat under high-fat
   dietary conditions. Nine-week-old C57BL/6 mice were treated with ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc
i0 (n = 20), at 10 mg/kg, s.c., or Tris-buffered-saline (TBS) vehicle (n = 10) twice per week for
   60 days. Beginning 7 days before the start of dosing, mice had unlimited access to a diet
   containing 58% fat instead of the standard chow containing 4.5% fat. An additional group of
                                                    - 52 -

   mice (n = 10) maintained on the standard chow diet was also treated with TBS vehicle and
   followed as a dietary control. Fat volumes were determined by microCT for a subset of mice
   (n = 4 per group) whose percentages of total body fat, as determined by nuclear magnetic
   resonance (NMR) analysis, were closest to group means (all mice were subjected to NMR
 5 analysis).
           Visceral fat and abdominal subcutaneous fat both varied markedly in size with diet
   and ActRUIB(25-13 l)-mFc treatment. Three-dimensional reconstruction of microCT images
   obtained partway through the study (35 days) demonstrates that the depots of visceral fat and
   subcutaneous fat both expanded as a result of the high-fat diet and that ActRIIB(25-131 )-mFc
 0 largely reversed those increases (Figure 20). When analyzed quantitatively at study
   conclusion (60 days), the effect of ActRIIB(25-131)-mFo compared to high-fat diet alone was
   highly significant for both visceral fat (Figure 21) and abdominal subcutaneous fat (Figure
   22).
 5 Example 10: Effect of ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc on Brown Fat Properties in Mouse Model
   of Diet-Induced Obesity
           In the study described in Example 9, Applicants also investigated effects of
   ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc on properties of intrascapular brown fat depots under high-fat dietary
   conditions. Compared to the standard diet, the high-fat diet produced several changes in the
 0 interscapular depot of brown adipose tissue, and ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment either
   completely or largely reversed each of these changes. Specifically, high-fat diet caused a
   pronounced enlargement of the interscapular depot as well as lightening of its color from red
   to pink (Figure 23). This diet-induced enlargement reflected a doubling of the mass (Figure
   24) and a reduction in the density (Figure 25) of brown fat depots. Depot density was
.5 determined by micro-computed tomography (microCT) in situ for a subset of mice (n = 4 per
   group) whose percentages of total body fat, as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance
   (NMR) analysis, were closest to the group means (all mice were subjected to NMR analysis).
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFe treatment completely reversed diet-induced changes in brown fat mass
   (Figure 24) and density (Figure 25), while largely reversing diet-induced changes in size and
i0 color of the depot (Figure 23). These results indicate that, under high-fat dietary conditions,
   ActRlB(25-131 )-mFc largely or completely restores properties likely to correlate with
                                                    - 53 -

   healthy brown fat function and thus improves the quality of brown fat as it decreases the
   overall size of brown fat depots.
   Example 11: Effects of ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc on Muscle, Bone, Fat, and Metabolic
 5 Hormones in Mouse Model of Aging
            Body composition changes with aging in a predictable manner. Normal age
   dependent decline in muscle mass and strength, known as sarcopenia, begins around age 30
   and accelerates after age 60 (Stenholm et al, 2008, Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care 11:693
   700). Bone mass and strength exhibit a similar decline with age, leading to an increased risk
 0 of osteoporosis in the elderly. Whole-body fat mass increases with age until around age 70,
   then declines in absolute terms but remains a roughly constant proportion of total body mass
   (Cartwright et al., 2007, Exp Gerontol 42:463-471). Based on efficacy observed in other
   models and described herein, Applicants investigated effects of ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc on
   muscle, bone, fat, and insulin levels in a mouse model of aging. Nineteen-month-old male
 5 C57BL/6 mice were given unlimited access to a standard chow diet and treated with
   ActRIIB(25-13 I)-mFc (n = 16), at 10 mg/kg, s.c., or TBS vehicle (n = 15) twice per week for
   8 weeks. As a frame of reference, median life expectancy in this mouse strain was previously
   found to be approximately 27 months under standard dietary condtions (Turturro et al., 2002,
   I Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 57:B379-389).
.0           ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc treatment generated a series of notable changes in body
   composition and metabolic hormone effects in these aged mice. As determined by whole-body
   NMR analysis, lean tissue mass was essentially unchanged in control mice over the course of
   the study, whereas in ActRllB(24-131 )-mFec-treated mice it increased progressively to almost
   20% above baseline by 7 weeks (Figure 26). Consistent with this whole-body effect,
.5 ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc also significantly increased the mass of individual muscle groups,
   including the pectoralis (increased 55%), rectus femoris (40%), triceps (40%), and
   gastrocnemius (28%), compared to vehicle-treated controls at 8 weeks. Importantly,
   ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc treatment improved neuromuscular function, as determined by forelimb
   grip strength testing according to an established protocol
i0 (http://jaxservices.jax.org/phenotyping/gripstrength_protocol.html) (Figure 27).
            Several bone-related parameters improved with ActRIIB(25-131)-mFe treatment in
   aged mice. As determined by DEXA analysis at baseline and 8-week time points,
                                                   - 54 -

   ActRIlB(25-131 )-mFc increased whole-body bone mineral density over the course of the
   study, whereas controls were essentially unchanged (Figure 28). In addition, microCT
   analysis of the proximal tibia demonstrated that ActRIIB(25-13 I)-mFc treatment for 8 weeks
   doubled the bone volume fraction of the proximal tibia compared to controls (P < 0.01).
 5         ActRIIB(25-13 )-mFc exerted major effects on fat in aged mice. As determined by
   NMR analysis at multiple time points, there was a progressive decline in whole-body fat
   mass in vehicle-treated controls over the course of the study (Figure 29), consistent with
   findings from humans in advanced old age. ActRIIB(25-131)-mFe treatment accelerated this
   change, triggering a decrease of twice the magnitude observed in controls (-44% vs. -19%,
 0 respectively) (Figure 29). By the terminal time point, ActRIIB(25-131 )-mFc significantly
   reduced the mass of the individual epididymal, inguinal, and retroperitoneal depots of white
   fat by amounts ranging from 48-54%. Interestingly, ActRIIB(25-131)-mFc treatment also
   reduced the mass of the interscapular brown fat depots by nearly 45% (P < 0.05), similar to
   results obtained for this tissue in the mouse model of dietary obesity (Example 10). Finally,
 5 as determined by microCT analysis in a representative subset of mice (n = 4) from each
   group, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFEc reduced the volume of the visceral component of abdominal fat
   by 65% (P < 0.01) and the subcutaneous component of abdominal fat by 49% (P < 0.01).
   Hence, the critical visceral fat compartment was strongly targeted by ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFec
   in this model of aging.
.0         ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFe also produced beneficial changes in important metabolic
   hormones in aged mice. Eight weeks of treatment with ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc nearly
   doubled circulating adiponectin concentrations (P < 0.001) and reduced circulating insulin
   concentrations by more than 40% (Figure30). An elevated fasting insulin concentration
   (hyperinsulinemia) is a widely accepted surrogate measure of insulin resistance (Weyer et al.,
.5 2000, Diabetes 49:2094-210 1), and increased adiponectin concentrations are likely
   contributing to improved insulin sensitivity in the present study. Glycated hemoglobin (AlC)
   concentrations were significantly reduced by ActRIIB(25-13 1)-mFc in this study (Figure 31),
   thereby providing additional evidence for improved glucose regulation with ActRIIB(25
   131)-mFc treatment in this model of aging.
 0
                                                  - 55 -

   Example 12: Effect of ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc on Lean Tissue in Mouse Model of Cancer
   Cachexia
            Cachexia is undesired weight loss resulting from loss of muscle and adipose tissue.
   Many tumors are associated with loss of appetite and severe muscle loss, and patients
5  exhibiting cachexia have a poorer prognosis than non-cachectic patients. Since the colon
   cancer cell line CT26 induces profound cachexia in mice, ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc was tested in
   this mouse model for potential effects on xenograft-induced cachexia. Eight-week-old
   BALB/c mice were injected subcutaneously with 106 Colon-26 adenocarcinoma (CT26) cells
   per mouse. Two weeks after tumor implantation, treatment was initiated with ActRIIB(25
0  131)-hFc (n = 15), at 10 mg/kg, s.c., or Tris-buffered-saline (TBS) vehicle (n = 13) twice per
   week. Additional groups of BALB/c mice did not receive CT26 cells but were treated with
   ActRIB(25-13 1)-hFc or vehicle as above. Treatment with ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc resulted in
   a significant increase in body weight that was maintained across the study. At 5 weeks post
   tumor implantation, vehicle-treated mice exhibited a 7% loss of lean tissue mass from
5  baseline, as determined by NMR analysis, whereas mice treated with ActRIB(25-13 I)-hFc
   exhibited a 27% increase in lean mass from baseline (Figure 32). Fat mass did not differ
   significantly between the groups. These results demonstrate that ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc can
   alleviate cachexia in tumor-bearing mice and could be an effective therapy for treating
   cachexia in cancer patients.
.0          Taken together, these data indicate that ActRIIB(25-13 l)-hFc fusion protein can be
   used as an antagonist of signaling by TGF-family ligands to reverse many pathological
   metabolic changes associated with diet-induced obesity, and thereby, to treat metabolic
   conditions exacerbated by high caloric intake. Moreover, ActRIIB(25-131)-bFe can be used
   to treat pathologic metabolic changes associated with aging or cancer cachexia.
5
   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
            All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
   their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually
   indicated to be incorporated by reference.
0           While specific embodiments of the subject matter have been discussed, the above
   specification is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations will become apparent to those
   skilled in the art upon review of this specification and the claims below. The full scope of the
                                                      - 56 -

invention should be determined by reference to the claims, along with their full scope of
equivalents, and the specification, along with such variations.
                                               - 57 -

   We Claim:
   1.      A nucleic acid comprising a nucleic acid sequence that hybridizes under stringent
   conditions to the complement of nucleotides 73-396 of SEQ ID NO:6.
   2.      The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid comprises nucleotides 73-396 of
 5 SEQ ID NO:6.
   3.      A nucleic acid comprising a nucleic acid sequence that hybridizes under stringent
   conditions to the complement of nucleotides 73-396 of SEQ ID NO:4.
   4.      The nucleic acid of claim 3, wherein the nucleic acid comprise nucleotides 73-396 of
   SEQ ID NO: 4
 0 5.      A cultured cell comprising the nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-4.
   6.      The cultured cell of claim 5, wherein the cell is a mammalian cell.
   7.      The cultured cell of claim 5, wherein the cell is a CHO cell.
   8.      A polypeptide selected from the group consisting of:
              a. a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence wherein the amino acid
 5                 sequence consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO:8 or an amino acid sequence
                   that differs from SEQ ID NO:8 at no more than five amino acid positions;
              b. a polypeptide produced by the expression in a mammalian cell of the nucleic
                   acid of SEQ ID NO: 4 or a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent
                   condition to the complement thereof;
.0            c. a polypeptide produced by the expression in a mammalian cell of the nucleic
                   acid of SEQ ID NO:6 or a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent
                   conditions to the complement thereof.
   9.      The polypeptide of claim 8, wherein the polypeptide is a polypeptide of part (a).
   10.     The polypeptide of claim 8, wherein the polypeptide is a polypeptide of part (b).
!5 11.     The polypeptide of claim 8, wherein the polypeptide is a polypeptide of part (c).
   12.     The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-1 1, wherein the amino terminus of the
   polypeptide has the sequence ETR.
                                                  - 58 -

    13.     The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-12, wherein the polypeptide causes a
   statistically significant increase in lean body mass in a mouse after four weeks of treatment
   twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg.
   14.      The polypeptide of claim 13, wherein the mean increase is at least 2 g of lean tissue
5  mass.
   15.      The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-14, wherein the polypeptide causes a
   statistically significant decrease in fat mass in a mouse fed a high fat diet after four weeks of
   treatment twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg.
   16.      The polypeptide of claim 15, wherein the mean decrease is at least 5 g of fat mass.
0   17.     The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-16, wherein the polypeptide causes a
   statistically significant decrease in serum triglyceride levels in a mouse fed a high fat diet
   after four weeks of treatment twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg.
    18.     The polypeptide of claim 17, wherein the mean decrease is at least 50 mg/dl
   triglycerides.
5  19.      The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-18, wherein the polypeptide causes a
   statistically significant decrease in serum free fatty acid levels in a mouse fed a high fat diet
   after four weeks of treatment twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg.
   20.      The polypeptide of claim 19, wherein the mean decrease is at least 500 micromoles/dI
   free fatty acids.
.0 21.      The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-20, wherein the polypeptide causes a
   statistically significant decrease in serum insulin levels in a mouse fed a high fat diet after
   four weeks of treatment twice per week at a dose level of 10 mg/kg.
   22.      The polypeptide of claim 21, wherein the mean decrease is at least I ng/ml insulin
   23.      The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-22, wherein the polypeptide comprises at least
!5 one N-linked sugar.
   24.      The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-23, wherein the polypeptide is produced in a
   CHO cell.
   25.      The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-24, wherein the polypeptide is covalently
   associated with a second polypeptide of any one of claims 8-24.
                                                    - 59 -

   26.     The polypeptide of any one of claims 8-24, wherein the polypeptide is covalently
   associated with a second polypeptide to form a homodimer.
   27.     A polypeptide comprising a portion derived from ActRIIB and one or more
   heterologous portions, wherein the portion derived from ActRUB comprises an amino acid
 5 sequence consisting of the sequence of amino acids 25-131 of SEQ ID NO:I or an amino acid
   sequence that differs the sequence of amino acids 25-131 of SEQ ID NO: 1 at no more than
   five amino acid positions.
   28.     The polypeptide of claim 27, wherein the heterologous portion comprises a constant
   domain of an immunoglobulin.
 0 29.     The polypeptide of claim 27, wherein the heterologous portion comprises an Fe
   domain of an immunoglobulin.
   30.     The polypeptide of claim 27, wherein the heterologous portion comprises an Fc
   domain of a human IgG1.
   31.     The polypeptide of any one of claims 27-30, wherein the portion derived from
 5 ActRIIB comprises an amino acid sequence consisting of the sequence of amino acids 25-131
   of SEQ ID NO:1.
   32.     A pharmaceutical preparation comprising the polypeptide of any one of claims 8-31.
   33.     A method for treating a subject having a disorder associated with muscle loss or
   insufficient muscle growth, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a
.0 pharmaceutical preparation of claim 32.
   34.     A method for increasing the lean mass or reducing the rate of loss of lean mass in a
   subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a
   pharmaceutical preparation of claim 32.
   35.     A method for decreasing the body fat content or reducing the rate of increase in body
.5 fat content in a subject, comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a
   pharmaceutical preparation of claim 32.
   36.     A method for treating a disorder associated with undesirable body weight gain in a
   subject, comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical
   preparation of claim 32.
                                                  - 60 -

  37.     A method for treating a metabolic disorder in a subject, comprising administering to a
  subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 32.
  38.     The method of claim 37, wherein the patient has one or more of the following
  characteristics:
5             d. elevated serum triglyceride levels;
              e. elevated free fatty acid levels; or
              f. elevated serum insulin levels.
  39.     The method of claim 37 or 38, wherein the metabolic disorder is selected from the
  group consisting of: type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance and obesity.
                                                  -  61 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                     Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> ACCELERON PHARMA I NC.
              <120> TRUNCATED ACTRI I B- FC FUSI ON PROTEI NS
              <130> PHPH- 045- WO1
              <140> PCT/ US2010/ 037787
              <141> 2010- 06- 08
              <150> 61/ 280, 543
<removed-apn>
              <151> 2009- 11- 03
              <150> 61/ 268, 420
              <151> 2009- 06- 12
              <160> 15
              <170> Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   512
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 1
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Val Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Tr p
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Pr o Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                            20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser Leu I l e Val Leu Leu Al a Phe Tr p Met Ty r
              145                      150                   155                   160
              Ar g Hi s Ar g Ly s Pr o Pr o Ty r Gl y Hi s Val As p I l e Hi s Gl u As p Pr o
                                                            Page 1

                                                     Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
                                 165                     170                       175
              Gl y Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Pr o Leu Val Gl y Leu Ly s Pr o Leu Gl n Leu
                             180                    185                    190
              Leu Gl u I l e Ly s Al a Ar g Gl y Ar g Phe Gl y Cy s Val Tr p Ly s Al a Gl n
                       195                       200                    205
              Leu Met As n As p Phe Val Al a Val Ly s I l e Phe Pr o Leu Gl n As p Ly s
<removed-apn>
                  210                   215                     220
              Gl n Ser Tr p Gl n Ser Gl u Ar g Gl u I l e Phe Ser Thr Pr o Gl y Met Ly s
              225                    230                      235                   240
              Hi s Gl u As n Leu Leu Gl n Phe I l e Al a Al a Gl u Ly s Ar g Gl y Ser As n
                                 245                     250                      255
              Leu Gl u Val Gl u Leu Tr p Leu I l e Thr Al a Phe Hi s As p Ly s Gl y Ser
                           260                     265                    270
              Leu Thr As p Ty r Leu Ly s Gl y As n I l e I l e Thr Tr p As n Gl u Leu Cy s
                      275                     280                       285
              Hi s Val Al a Gl u Thr Met Ser Ar g Gl y Leu Ser Ty r Leu Hi s Gl u As p
                   290                   295                   300
              Val Pr o Tr p Cy s Ar g Gl y Gl u Gl y Hi s Ly s Pr o Ser I l e Al a Hi s Ar g
              305                     310                      315                      320
              As p Phe Ly s Ser Ly s As n Val Leu Leu Ly s Ser As p Leu Thr Al a Val
                                325                   330                   335
              Leu Al a As p Phe Gl y Leu Al a Val Ar g Phe Gl u Pr o Gl y Ly s Pr o Pr o
                            340                   345                     350
              Gl y As p Thr Hi s Gl y Gl n Val Gl y Thr Ar g Ar g Ty r Met Al a Pr o Gl u
                        355                    360                     365
              Val Leu Gl u Gl y Al a I l e As n Phe Gl n Ar g As p Al a Phe Leu Ar g I l e
                  370                      375                     380
              As p Met Ty r Al a Met Gl y Leu Val Leu Tr p Gl u Leu Val Ser Ar g Cy s
              385                    390                   395                   400
              Ly s Al a Al a As p Gl y Pr o Val As p Gl u Ty r Met Leu Pr o Phe Gl u Gl u
                                  405                     410                   415
              Gl u I l e Gl y Gl n Hi s Pr o Ser Leu Gl u Gl u Leu Gl n Gl u Val Val Val
                              420                    425                     430
              Hi s Ly s Ly s Met Ar g Pr o Thr I l e Ly s As p Hi s Tr p Leu Ly s Hi s Pr o
                                                           Page 2

                                                               Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
                          435                            440                        445
              Gl y Leu Al a Gl n Leu Cy s Val Thr I l e Gl u Gl u Cy s Tr p As p Hi s As p
                   450                    455                     460
              Al a Gl u Al a Ar g Leu Ser Al a Gl y Cy s Val Gl u Gl u Ar g Val Ser Leu
              465                     470                    475                    480
              I l e Ar g Ar g Ser Val As n Gl y Thr Thr Ser As p Cy s Leu Val Ser Leu
<removed-apn>
                                  485                   490                   495
              Val Thr Ser Val Thr As n Val As p Leu Pr o Pr o Ly s Gl u Ser Ser I l e
                          500                   505                     510
              <210>    2
              <211>    1539
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400> 2
              at gac ggc gc c c t gggt ggc c c t c gc c c t c c t c t ggggat c gc t gt ggc c c ggc t c t ggg           60
              c gt ggggagg c t gagac ac g ggagt gc at c t ac t ac aac g c c aac t ggga gc t ggagc gc                  120
              ac c aac c aga gc ggc c t gga gc gc t gc gaa ggc gagc agg ac aagc ggc t gc ac t gc t ac                 180
              gc c t c c t ggc gc aac agc t c t ggc ac c at c gagc t c gt ga agaagggc t g c t ggc t agat              240
              gac t t c aac t gc t ac gat ag gc aggagt gt gt ggc c ac t g aggagaac c c c c aggt gt ac                 300
              t t c t gc t gc t gt gaaggc aa c t t c t gc aac gagc gc t t c a c t c at t t gc c agaggc t ggg          360
              ggc c c ggaag t c ac gt ac ga gc c ac c c c c g ac agc c c c c a c c c t gc t c ac ggt gc t ggc c       420
              t ac t c ac t gc t gc c c at c gg gggc c t t t c c c t c at c gt c c t gc t ggc c t t t t ggat gt ac    480
              c ggc at c gc a agc c c c c c t a c ggt c at gt g gac at c c at g aggac c c t gg gc c t c c ac c a      540
              c c at c c c c t c t ggt gggc c t gaagc c ac t g c agc t gc t gg agat c aaggc t c gggggc gc             600
              t t t ggc t gt g t c t ggaaggc c c agc t c at g aat gac t t t g t agc t gt c aa gat c t t c c c a       660
              c t c c aggac a agc agt c gt g gc agagt gaa c gggagat c t t c agc ac ac c t ggc at gaag                 720
              c ac gagaac c t gc t ac agt t c at t gc t gc c gagaagc gag gc t c c aac c t c gaagt agag                780
              c t gt ggc t c a t c ac ggc c t t c c at gac aag ggc t c c c t c a c ggat t ac c t c aaggggaac          840
              at c at c ac at ggaac gaac t gt gt c at gt a gc agagac ga t gt c ac gagg c c t c t c at ac              900
              c t gc at gagg at gt gc c c t g gt gc c gt ggc gagggc c ac a agc c gt c t at t gc c c ac agg            960
              gac t t t aaaa gt aagaat gt at t gc t gaag agc gac c t c a c agc c gt gc t ggc t gac t t t             1020
              ggc t t ggc t g t t c gat t t ga gc c agggaaa c c t c c agggg ac ac c c ac gg ac aggt aggc             1080
              ac gagac ggt ac at ggc t c c t gaggt gc t c gagggagc c a t c aac t t c c a gagagat gc c                1140
              t t c c t gc gc a t t gac at gt a t gc c at gggg t t ggt gc t gt gggagc t t gt gt c t c gc t gc        1200
              aaggc t gc ag ac ggac c c gt ggat gagt ac at gc t gc c c t t t gaggaaga gat t ggc c ag                 1260
              c ac c c t t c gt t ggaggagc t gc aggaggt g gt ggt gc ac a agaagat gag gc c c ac c at t                1320
                                                               Page 3

                                                              Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              aaagat c ac t ggt t gaaac a c c c gggc c t g gc c c agc t t t gt gt gac c at c gaggagt gc            1380
              t gggac c at g at gc agaggc t c gc t t gt c c gc gggc t gt g t ggaggagc g ggt gt c c c t g           1440
              at t c ggaggt c ggt c aac gg c ac t ac c t c g gac t gt c t c g t t t c c c t ggt gac c t c t gt c   1500
              ac c aat gt gg ac c t gc c c c c t aaagagt c a agc at c t aa                                         1539
              <210>    3
              <211>    360
<removed-apn>
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 3
              Met As p Al a Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Leu Cy s Cy s Val Leu Leu Leu Cy s Gl y
              1                 5                       10                   15
              Al a Val Phe Val Ser Pr o Gl y Al a Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r
                           20                     25                      30
              Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u
                        35                      40                      45
              Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p
                   50                       55                      60
              Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu
              65                     70                     75                       80
              As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u
                                 85                       90                     95
              As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u
                             100                    105                     110
              Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u
                       115                    120                      125
              Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a
                   130                     135                    140
              Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o
              145                    150                   155                    160
              Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val
                                165                    170                    175
              Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val
                           180                     185                    190
                                                                      Page 4

                                                    Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n
                        195                    200                       205
              Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n
                   210                    215                 220
              As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a
              225                     230                      235                    240
<removed-apn>
              Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o
                                 245                       250                     255
              Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr
                             260                   265                     270
              Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser
                        275                  280                    285
              As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r
                   290                      295                     300
              Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r
              305                    310                   315                  320
              Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe
                               325                    330                      335
              Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s
                           340                    345                     350
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                      355                   360
              <210>   4
              <211>   1083
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y nuc l eot i de
              <220>
              <221> CDS
              <222> ( 73) . . ( 396)
              <400> 4
              at ggat gc aa t gaagagagg gc t c t gc t gt gt gc t gc t gc t gt gt ggagc agt c t t c gt t    60
              t c gc c c ggc g c c gc t gag ac a c gg gag t gc at c t ac t ac aac gc c aac t gg           111
                                   Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p
                                   1                  5                         10
              gag c t g gag c gc ac c aac c ag agc ggc c t g gag c gc t gc gaa ggc gag                    159
              Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u
                   15                     20                     25
                                                         Page 5

                                                               Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              c ag gac aag c gg c t g c ac t gc t ac gc c t c c t gg c gc aac agc t c t ggc                           207
              Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y
              30                      35                        40                      45
              ac c at c gag c t c gt g aag aag ggc t gc t gg c t a gat gac t t c aac t gc                             255
              Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s
                                  50                     55                      60
              t ac gat agg c ag gag t gt gt g gc c ac t gag gag aac c c c c ag gt g t ac                              303
              Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r
                             65                      70                      75
<removed-apn>
              t t c t gc t gc t gt gaa ggc aac t t c t gc aac gag c gc t t c ac t c at t t g                          351
              Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu
                         80                     85                      90
              c c a gag gc t ggg ggc c c g gaa gt c ac g t ac gag c c a c c c c c g ac a                              396
              Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                    95                      100                    105
              ggt ggt ggaa c t c ac ac at g c c c ac c gt gc c c agc ac c t g aac t c c t ggg gggac c gt c a          456
              gt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aaa ac c c aaggac ac c c t c at ga t c t c c c ggac c c c t gaggt c    516
              ac at gc gt gg t ggt ggac gt gagc c ac gaa gac c c t gagg t c aagt t c aa c t ggt ac gt g               576
              gac ggc gt gg aggt gc at aa t gc c aagac a aagc c gc ggg aggagc agt a c aac agc ac g                    636
              t ac c gt gt gg t c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t g c ac c aggac t ggc t gaat gg c aaggagt ac            696
              aagt gc aagg t c t c c aac aa agc c c t c c c a gc c c c c at c g agaaaac c at c t c c aaagc c          756
              aaagggc agc c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt ac ac c c t gc c c c c at c c c ggga ggagat gac c                 816
              aagaac c agg t c agc c t gac c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c t at c c c agc ga c at c gc c gt g           876
              gagt gggaga gc aat gggc a gc c ggagaac aac t ac aaga c c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t ggac                   936
              t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t at agc aag c t c ac c gt gg ac aagagc ag gt ggc agc ag          996
              gggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc at gaggc t c t gc ac aac c ac t a c ac gc agaag            1056
              agc c t c t c c c t gt c c c c ggg t aaat ga                                                           1083
              <210>    5
              <211>    1083
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y nuc l eot i de
              <400> 5
              t c at t t ac c c ggggac aggg agaggc t c t t c t gc gt gt ag t ggt t gt gc a gagc c t c at g             60
              c at c ac ggag c at gagaaga c gt t c c c c t g c t gc c ac c t g c t c t t gt c c a c ggt gagc t t      120
              gc t at agagg aagaaggagc c gt c ggagt c c agc ac ggga ggc gt ggt c t t gt agt t gt t                    180
              c t c c ggc t gc c c at t gc t c t c c c ac t c c ac ggc gat gt c g c t gggat aga agc c t t t gac       240
              c aggc aggt c aggc t gac c t ggt t c t t ggt c at c t c c t c c c gggat gggg gc agggt gt a              300
              c ac c t gt ggt t c t c ggggc t gc c c t t t ggc t t t ggagat g gt t t t c t c ga t gggggc t gg         360
                                                                       Page 6

                                                            Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              gagggc t t t g t t ggagac c t t gc ac t t gt a c t c c t t gc c a t t c agc c agt c c t ggt gc ag      420
              gac ggt gagg ac gc t gac c a c ac ggt ac gt gc t gt t gt ac t gc t c c t c c c gc ggc t t t gt         480
              c t t ggc at t a t gc ac c t c c a c gc c gt c c ac gt ac c agt t g aac t t gac c t c agggt c t t c    540
              gt ggc t c ac g t c c ac c ac c a c gc at gt gac c t c aggggt c c gggagat c a t gagggt gt c            600
              c t t gggt t t t ggggggaaga ggaagac t ga c ggt c c c c c c aggagt t c ag gt gc t gggc a                660
              c ggt gggc at gt gt gagt t c c ac c ac c t gt c gggggt ggc t c gt ac gt ga c t t c c gggc c            720
<removed-apn>
              c c c agc c t c t ggc aaat gag t gaagc gc t c gt t gc agaag t t gc c t t c ac agc agc agaa             780
              gt ac ac c t gg gggt t c t c c t c agt ggc c ac ac ac t c c t gc c t at c gt agc agt t gaagt c         840
              at c t agc c ag c agc c c t t c t t c ac gagc t c gat ggt gc c a gagc t gt t gc gc c aggaggc           900
              gt agc agt gc agc c gc t t gt c c t gc t c gc c t t c gc agc gc t c c aggc c gc t c t ggt t ggt        960
              gc gc t c c agc t c c c agt t gg c gt t gt agt a gat gc ac t c c c gt gt c t c ag c ggc gc c ggg      1020
              c gaaac gaag ac t gc t c c ac ac agc agc ag c ac ac agc ag agc c c t c t c t t c at t gc at c         1080
              c at                                                                                                  1083
              <210>    6
              <211>    1083
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y nuc l eot i de
              <220>
              <221> CDS
              <222> ( 73) . . ( 396)
              <400> 6
              at ggat gc aa t gaagagagg gc t c t gc t gt gt gc t gc t gc t gt gt ggagc agt c t t c gt t               60
              t c gc c c ggc g c c gc c gaa ac c c gc gaa t gt at t t at t ac aat gc t aat t gg                      111
                                   Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p
                                   1                  5                         10
              gaa c t c gaa c gg ac g aac c aa t c c ggg c t c gaa c gg t gt gag ggg gaa                             159
              Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u
                   15                     20                       25
              c ag gat aaa c gc c t c c at t gc t at gc g t c g t gg agg aac t c c t c c ggg                         207
              Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y
              30                      35                        40                       45
              ac g at t gaa c t g gt c aag aaa ggg t gc t gg c t g gac gat t t c aat t gt                            255
              Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s
                                  50                     55                      60
              t at gac c gc c ag gaa t gt gt c gc g ac c gaa gag aat c c g c ag gt c t at                            303
              Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r
                             65                      70                      75
              t t c t gt t gt t gc gag ggg aat t t c t gt aat gaa c gg t t t ac c c ac c t c                         351
              Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu
                         80                     85                      90
                                                                      Page 7

                                                     Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              c c c gaa gc c ggc ggg c c c gag gt g ac c t at gaa c c c c c g c c c ac c                              396
              Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                    95                      100                    105
              ggt ggt ggaa c t c ac ac at g c c c ac c gt gc c c agc ac c t g aac t c c t ggg gggac c gt c a          456
              gt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aaa ac c c aaggac ac c c t c at ga t c t c c c ggac c c c t gaggt c    516
              ac at gc gt gg t ggt ggac gt gagc c ac gaa gac c c t gagg t c aagt t c aa c t ggt ac gt g               576
              gac ggc gt gg aggt gc at aa t gc c aagac a aagc c gc ggg aggagc agt a c aac agc ac g                    636
<removed-apn>
              t ac c gt gt gg t c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t g c ac c aggac t ggc t gaat gg c aaggagt ac            696
              aagt gc aagg t c t c c aac aa agc c c t c c c a gc c c c c at c g agaaaac c at c t c c aaagc c          756
              aaagggc agc c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt ac ac c c t gc c c c c at c c c ggga ggagat gac c                 816
              aagaac c agg t c agc c t gac c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c t at c c c agc ga c at c gc c gt g           876
              gagt gggaga gc aat gggc a gc c ggagaac aac t ac aaga c c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t ggac                   936
              t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t at agc aag c t c ac c gt gg ac aagagc ag gt ggc agc ag          996
              gggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc at gaggc t c t gc ac aac c ac t a c ac gc agaag            1056
              agc c t c t c c c t gt c c c c ggg t aaat ga                                                           1083
              <210>    7
              <211>    1083
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y nuc l eot i de
              <400> 7
              t c at t t ac c c ggggac aggg agaggc t c t t c t gc gt gt ag t ggt t gt gc a gagc c t c at g             60
              c at c ac ggag c at gagaaga c gt t c c c c t g c t gc c ac c t g c t c t t gt c c a c ggt gagc t t      120
              gc t at agagg aagaaggagc c gt c ggagt c c agc ac ggga ggc gt ggt c t t gt agt t gt t                    180
              c t c c ggc t gc c c at t gc t c t c c c ac t c c ac ggc gat gt c g c t gggat aga agc c t t t gac       240
              c aggc aggt c aggc t gac c t ggt t c t t ggt c at c t c c t c c c gggat gggg gc agggt gt a              300
              c ac c t gt ggt t c t c ggggc t gc c c t t t ggc t t t ggagat g gt t t t c t c ga t gggggc t gg         360
              gagggc t t t g t t ggagac c t t gc ac t t gt a c t c c t t gc c a t t c agc c agt c c t ggt gc ag       420
              gac ggt gagg ac gc t gac c a c ac ggt ac gt gc t gt t gt ac t gc t c c t c c c gc ggc t t t gt          480
              c t t ggc at t a t gc ac c t c c a c gc c gt c c ac gt ac c agt t g aac t t gac c t c agggt c t t c     540
              gt ggc t c ac g t c c ac c ac c a c gc at gt gac c t c aggggt c c gggagat c a t gagggt gt c             600
              c t t gggt t t t ggggggaaga ggaagac t ga c ggt c c c c c c aggagt t c ag gt gc t gggc a                 660
              c ggt gggc at gt gt gagt t c c ac c ac c ggt gggc gggggt t c at aggt c a c c t c gggc c c               720
              gc c ggc t t c g gggaggt ggg t aaac c gt t c at t ac agaaa t t c c c c t c gc aac aac agaa              780
              at agac c t gc ggat t c t c t t c ggt c gc gac ac at t c c t gg c ggt c at aac aat t gaaat c            840
              gt c c agc c ag c ac c c t t t c t t gac c agt t c aat c gt c c c g gaggagt t c c t c c ac gac gc       900
                                                                       Page 8

                                                             Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              at agc aat gg aggc gt t t at c c t gt t c c c c c t c ac ac c gt t c gagc c c gg at t ggt t c gt    960
              c c gt t c gagt t c c c aat t ag c at t gt aat a aat ac at t c g c gggt t t c gg c ggc gc c ggg    1020
              c gaaac gaag ac t gc t c c ac ac agc agc ag c ac ac agc ag agc c c t c t c t t c at t gc at c      1080
              c at                                                                                               1083
              <210>   8
              <211>   335
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 8
              Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g
              1                  5                         10                      15
              Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g
                            20                     25                       30
              Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu
                       35                      40                     45
              Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n
                  50                       55                     60
              Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s
              65                     70                       75                     80
              Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y
                                 85                      90                     95
              Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Hi s
                             100                    105                     110
              Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val
                       115                      120                    125
              Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr
                  130                    135                    140
              Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u
              145                    150                  155                     160
              Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s
                                165                     170                    175
              Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser
                            180                      185                    190
                                                                     Page 9

                                                 Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s
                      195                   200                       205
              Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e
                   210                    215                     220
              Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o
              225                     230                      235                   240
<removed-apn>
              Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu
                                 245                    250                  255
              Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n
                            260                    265                      270
              Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser
                        275                      280                    285
              As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g
                   290                  295                   300
              Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu
              305                      310                  315                    320
              Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                                  325                   330                   335
              <210>   9
              <211>   225
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 43) . . ( 43)
              <223> As p or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 100) . . ( 100)
              <223> Ly s or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 212) . . ( 212)
              <223> As n or Al a
              <400> 9
              Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o
              1                 5                        10                     15
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser
                          20                     25                     30
                                                       Page 10

                                                           Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val Xaa Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p
                       35                     40                  45
              Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val
              65                      70                       75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u
                              85                    90                      95
              Ty r Ly s Cy s Xaa Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s
                             100                   105                    110
              Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr
                        115                     120                      125
              Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr
                  130                     135                    140
              Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u
              145                    150                    155                      160
              Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu
                                 165                      170                    175
              As p Ser As p Gl y Pr o Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s
                            180                   185                   190
              Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u
                       195                      200                  205
              Al a Leu Hi s Xaa Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y
                   210                    215                   220
              Ly s
              225
              <210>   10
              <211>   348
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 10
              t c t gggc gt g gggaggc t ga gac ac gggag t gc at c t ac t ac aac gc c aa c t gggagc t g        60
              gagc gc ac c a ac c agagc gg c c t ggagc gc t gc gaaggc g agc aggac aa gc ggc t gc ac          120
              t gc t ac gc c t c c t ggc gc aa c agc t c t ggc ac c at c gagc t c gt gaagaa gggc t gc t gg   180
              c t agat gac t t c aac t gc t a c gat aggc ag gagt gt gt gg c c ac t gagga gaac c c c c ag     240
                                                                 Page 11

                                                             Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              gt gt ac t t c t gc t gc t gt ga aggc aac t t c t gc aac gagc gc t t c ac t c a t t t gc c agag   300
              gc t gggggc c c ggaagt c ac gt ac gagc c a c c c c c gac ag c c c c c ac c                        348
              <210>   11
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
<removed-apn>
                    pept i de
              <400> 11
              Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                  5
              <210>   12
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 12
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                  5
              <210>   13
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    6x Hi s t ag
              <400> 13
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              1                   5
              <210>   14
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 14
              Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u
              1                  5                         10                       15
              Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s
                            20                     25                       30
              Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u
                       35                      40                     45
                                                                   Page 12

                                                         Sequenc e Li s t i ng
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g
                  50                      55                     60
              Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a
                                  85                      90                    95
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                             100                    105
              <210>   15
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 15
              Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u
              1                  5                         10                       15
              Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s
                            20                     25                       30
              Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u
                       35                      40                     45
              Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g
                  50                      55                     60
              Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a
                                  85                      90                    95
              Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                             100                    105
                                                               Page 13

