ABSTRACT
LED luminaries development for road tunnel application with asymmetrical beam control according
to towards traffic direction and tunnel requirements and tunnel threshold daylight gradual
illumination solved by natural light' s energy, such as:
approaching and leaving road section are being engineered by gradual shading;
direct connected solar-led system for adaptive light control;
optical (mirror, light tube, glass fiber, etc) beam transmission adaptation;
individual tunnel shading structure engineering algorithm and its IT application; and
methods of road gradual shading (materials, geometrics, shapes).

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                               Innovation Patent Description
                                  Adaptive Tunnel Illumination
Illumination of man-made tunnels is a major safety issue at civil engineering. Every traffic
tunnel must be generally lighted out entirely on 24/7 with gradual intensity in tunnel' s
threshold section to/from the glare at daytime periods. The appropriate high power
threshold illumination at high-speed road tunnels is one of the major operation objective
and expense.
The recent illumination technologies are artificial by High Pressure Sodium, induction and
fluorescent tube luminaries.
This innovation covers the energy, cost and carbon emission efficiency improvement
technics at road tunnel illumination:
     1. Alternative definition of tunnel threshold section according to gradual illumination
     2. Solar-LED direct connected adaptive illumination
     3. Natural light utilization by optical transmission or solar application
     4.  Adaptive tunnel threshold illumination by engineered shading
     5. Threshold gradual illumination by gradual shading
     6.  Threshold gradual illumination with integrated artificial lighting and shading
     7.  Gradual shading control by light transmission materials (glass, plastic, fabric)
     8.  Gradual shading control by perforated solid materials (#6-7 combination)
     9.  Gradual shading control by interspaced solid units (solar panel)
     10. Asymmetrical beam characteristic for one-way tunnels
     11. Solar panel structure' s wind protection, airing, guttering solutions

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                   Innovation Patent Claim
                                  Adaptive Tunnel Illumination
This innovation claims keeping the rights of the following technologies:
    -   LED luminaries development for tunnel application with asymmetrical beam
        control according to towards traffic direction and tunnel requirements
    -   tunnel threshold daylight gradual illumination solving by natural light' s energy,
        such as
            o   approaching and leaving road section are being engineered by gradual
                shading
            o   direct connected solar-led system for adaptive light control
            o   optical (mirror, light tube, glass fiber, etc) beam transmission adaptation
            o    individual tunnel shading structure engineering algorithm and its IT
                application
            o    methods of road gradual shading (materials, geometrics, shapes)
    -   mathematical and IT algorithms of shading engineering according to tunnel
        location
            o   cardinal points
            o    road directions and graduations
            o   entry/exit zones terrain
            o   shading method
            o    unit size, quntity and position scheme (solar panel)

