  H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                             ABSTRACT
                 A traffic signal support for supporting overhead traffic signal lanterns over a
    vehicle passageway/hazard wherein the support includes a pole having a base adapted for
5    fixing relative to a ground surface, a mounting on the pole, and an arm adapted to have
     the traffic signal fitted thereto, wherein the arm is pivotably coupled to the mounting such
     that the arm is able to be pivoted relative to the pole between an operational condition in
     which the traffic signal is supported over the vehicle passageway/hazard, and a
     maintenance condition in which the arm is retracted from the vehicle passageway/hazard.

           5/11
        2822
       16
                                        22
               16
       24
                                               34
                                            32
18
                                                  10
   22                262
                                             12
                         y--- - -22
                                             30
                                         32
    16                                 34
             24
                                    20
                  26
        FIGURE 5

   DocumntI-l6 02 2018
                                       TRAFFIC SIGNAL SUPPORT
   Field of the Invention
                 The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
   2012244338 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
 5               The invention relates to a traffic signal support and, more particularly, but not
   exclusively, to a universal support for mounting a traffic signal lanterns over a roadway/hazard
   and which provides improved accessibility for maintenance of the traffic signal.
   Background of the Invention
10               It is known to provide traffic signal supports in the form of poles, for example where
   traffic signal lanterns are to be suspended over a roadway. Examples of existing traffic signal
   supports are shown in Figures 1 to 4 of the drawings.
                 The applicant has identified a number of issues regarding the maintenance of traffic
   signal lanterns installed on joint use mast arms (JUMA) and mast arms (MA) located near
15 overhead power cables, for example overhead power cables of electric trams (also known as
   "streetcars" or "trolley cars"). The access to traffic signal lanterns on joint use mast arms and
   mast arms typically requires permits from power authorities and tram authorities, extending
   the response time for attending to traffic signal related faults and increasing maintenance
   costs. The location of the traffic signal lanterns in relation to the roadway, power cables or
20 other hazard may also pose a danger to personnel carrying out the maintenance.
                Examples of the present invention seek to provide an improved traffic signal support
   which overcomes or at least alleviates disadvantages associated with existing traffic signal
   supports.
25 Summary of the Invention

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              -2
                  In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a traffic signal support
   for supporting overhead traffic signal lanterns over a vehicle passageway/hazard wherein
   the support includes a pole having a base adapted for fixing relative to a ground surface, a
   mounting on the pole, and an arm adapted to have the traffic signal lanterns fitted thereto,
 5 wherein the arm is pivotably coupled to the mounting such that the arm is able to be
   pivoted relative to the pole between an operational condition in which the traffic signal
   lanterns is are supported over the vehicle passageway/hazard, and a maintenance condition
   in which the arm is retracted from the vehicle passageway/hazard.
10                Preferably, the pole has an elongated portion extending upwardly from the base.
   More preferably, the arm branches outwardly from the elongated portion.
                  Preferably, the elongated portion extends upwardly from the base to the mounting.
   Alternatively, the mounting is located at a lower end of the elongated portion.
15
                  In a preferred form, the mounting includes a fastening to fasten the arm in the
   operational condition.
                  Preferably, the mounting includes a first pivotal coupling about which the arm is
20 able to be pivoted in a first direction relative to the pole, and a second pivotal coupling
   about which the arm is able to be pivoted in a second direction relative to the pole, the
   second direction being generally opposite to the first direction. More preferably, the first
   pivotal coupling is spaced horizontally from the second pivotal coupling.
25                It is preferred that the first pivotal coupling and the second pivotal coupling form
   said fastening, whereby the first pivotal coupling serves to fasten the arm in the operational
   condition against pivotal movement about the second pivotal coupling, and the second
   pivotal coupling serves to fasten the arm in the operational condition against pivotal
   movement about the first pivotal coupling. More preferably, the first pivotal coupling is in
30 the form of a first pair of vertically spaced removable bolts forming a first pivotal axis and
   the second pivotal coupling is in the form of a second pair of vertically spaced removable

   H:\safInterwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                             -3
   bolts forming a second pivotal axis. Even more preferably, the first and second pair of
   bolts couple the arm to the pole by way of at least one bracket of the arm and at least one
   bracket of the mounting.
 5               Preferably, the traffic signal support includes a link for fastening the arm in the
   maintenance condition relative to the pole. More preferably, the link fastens the arm in the
   maintenance condition relative to the pole by linking said at least one bracket of the arm to
   said at least one bracket of the mounting.
10               In a preferred form, the traffic signal support includes a cover adapted to be
   coupled to the mounting in place of the arm so as to be interchangeable with the arm, the
   cover being adapted to cover the mounting such that the traffic signal support is optionally
   able to be configured with or without the arm.
15               Preferably, the traffic signal support has a set of modular interchangeable
   components such that the traffic signal support is able to be configured as a joint use mast
   arm (JUMA), a mast arm (MA), or a joint use pole (JUP).
   Brief Description of the Drawings
20
                 The invention is described, by way of non-limiting example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
                 Figure 1 shows an existing traffic signal support in the form of a joint use mast arm
25 (JUMA);
                 Figure 2 shows a detailed view of an existing joint use mast arm with a range of
   fixed outreach extensions;
30               Figure 3 shows an existing traffic signal support in the form of a mast arm (MA);

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              -4
                  Figure 4 shows an existing traffic signal support in the form of a joint use pole
    (JUP);
                  Figure 5 shows a traffic signal support in accordance with an example of the
 5 present invention, in a secured operational condition;
                  Figure 6 shows the traffic signal support of Figure 5 being unsecured from the
    operational condition;
10                Figure 7 shows the traffic signal support being unsecured at a lower bracket from
   the operational condition;
                  Figure 8 shows the traffic signal support of Figure 5 moved to a maintenance
    condition;
15
                  Figure 9 shows the traffic signal support of Figure 5 being secured in the
   maintenance condition;
                  Figure 10 shows the traffic signal support of Figure 5 fully secured in the
20 maintenance condition; and
                  Figure 11 shows a diagrammatic side view of a traffic signal support in accordance
   with another example of the present invention, demonstrating its modularity.
25 Detailed Description
                  With reference to Figures 1 to 4, there are shown various examples of existing
    traffic signal supports, including a joint use mast arm (JUMA), a mast arm (MA) and a
   joint use pole (JUP). The applicant has identified that there are problems associated with
30  such existing traffic signal supports in that there may be dangers and inefficiencies. More
    specifically, Figure 1 shows an existing joint use mast arm (JUMA), Figure 2 shows a

   H:\safInterwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                                -5
   portion of an existing joint use mast arm (JUMA) with a range of fixed extensions having
   different outreaches, Figure 3 shows an existing mast arm (MA - which omits the portion
   of the vertical pole extending above the arm of the joint use mast arm shown in Figure 1),
   and Figure 4 shows a joint use pole (JUP - including both a side view of a lower portion of
 5 the pole and a cross-sectional view).
                 The applicant has determined that it is possible to provide a universal modular
   traffic signal support which is able to be configured in the existing arrangements (JUMA,
   MA or JUP) and which reduces the dangers and inefficiencies of existing traffic signal
10 supports.
                 In accordance with the present invention, the applicant has proposed a traffic signal
   support having an arm which is able to be pivoted between an operational condition and a
   maintenance condition so that the traffic signal is able to be accessed more easily and
15 safely for maintenance.                   In particular, the traffic signal may be retracted from a vehicle
   passageway, power cables or other hazard so as to reduce danger, time, cost and
   formalities associated with traffic signal maintenance using typical existing traffic signal
   supports.
20               With reference to Figures 5 to 11, there is shown an example traffic signal
   support 10 for supporting an overhead traffic signal over a vehicle passageway/hazard.
   Although Figures 5 to 10 show only a portion of the traffic signal support 10, it will be
   understood from the view shown in Figure 11, and the existing traffic signal supports
   shown in Figures 1 to 4, that the invention concerns a part of the traffic signal support from
25 where a traffic signal support arm extends away from a pole of the traffic signal
   support 10. More specifically, the traffic signal support 10 includes a pole 12 having a
   base 14 adapted for fixing relative to a ground surface, a mounting 16 on the pole 12, and
   an arm 18 adapted to have the traffic signal fitted thereto. The arm 18 is pivotably coupled
   to the mounting 16 such that the arm 18 is able to be pivoted relative to the pole 12
30 between an operational condition (see Figures 5 to 7) in which the traffic signal is

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              -6
   supported over the vehicle passageway/hazard, and a maintenance condition (see Figures 8
   to 10) in which the arm 18 is retracted from the vehicle passageway/hazard.
                  The pole 12 has an elongated portion 20 extending upwardly from the base 14, and
 5 the arm 18 branches outwardly from the elongated portion 20.                 With reference to
   Figure 11, the elongated portion 20 extends upwardly from the base 14 to the mounting 16,
   and may also extend above the mounting 16. In an alternative form, the mounting may be
   located at a lower end of the elongated portion, for example where the arm is to be
   mounted at a relatively low position on the pole, or is to extend gradually outwardly and
10 upwardly from a relatively low position of the pole.
                  The mounting 16 includes a fastening 22 to fasten the arm 18 in the operational
   condition, as shown in Figure 5. More specifically, the mounting 16 includes a first
   pivotal coupling 24 about which the arm 18 is able to be pivoted in a first direction relative
15 to the pole 12 (clockwise relative to the pole 12), and a second pivotal coupling 26 about
   which the arm 18 is able to be pivoted in a second direction relative to the pole 12
   (anticlockwise relative to the pole 12). The second direction is generally opposite to the
   first direction, however it will be appreciated that the axis of pivotal movement provided
   by the first pivotal coupling 24 is spaced from the axis of pivotal movement provided by
20 the second pivotal coupling 26. As can be seen, the first pivotal coupling 24 is spaced
   horizontally from the second pivotal coupling 26.
                  The first pivotal coupling 24 and the second pivotal coupling 26 form the
   fastening 22, whereby the first pivotal coupling 24 serves to fasten the arm 18 in the
25 operational condition against pivotal movement about the second pivotal coupling 26, and
   the second pivotal coupling 26 serves to fasten the arm 18 in the operational condition
   against pivotal movement about the first pivotal coupling 24.                With reference to
   Figures 6 to 8, the first pivotal coupling 24 is uncoupled to allow pivotal movement of the
   arm 18 anticlockwise about the second pivotal coupling 26 to the fastened maintenance
30 condition shown in Figure 10.

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              -7
                  The first pivotal coupling 24 is in the form of a first pair of vertically spaced
   removable bolts 28 forming a first pivotal axis, and the second pivotal coupling 26 is in the
   form of a second pair of vertically spaced removable bolts 30 forming a second pivotal
   axis. The first and second pairs of bolts 28, 30 couple the arm 18 to the pole 12 by way of
 5 brackets 32 fitted to the arm 18 and brackets 34 forming part of the mounting 16.
                  Figure 6 shows an upper one of the bolts 28 being removed, Figure 7 shows a lower
   one of the bolts 28 being removed, and Figure 8 shows the arm 18 being pivoted toward
   the maintenance condition in which it is fastened by way of a link 36 in Figures 9 and 10.
10 The link 36 is used for fastening the arm 18 in the maintenance condition relative to the
   pole 12.            As can be seen in Figures 9 and 10, the link 36 fastens the arm 18 in the
   maintenance condition at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the operational
   condition by linking the brackets 32 to the brackets 34. This may be achieved by using the
   bolts 28 to couple each of the brackets 34 to a respective link 36, and by using additional
15 bolts to couple each link 36 to a respective one of the brackets 32. The link 36 acts as a
   strut to prevent inward movement of the arm 18, and also as a tie to prevent outward
   movement of the arm 18. Although one link 36 may be sufficient, two separate links 36
   may be used for additional security - one at the top of the mounting 16 and another at the
   bottom of the mounting, in a similar manner to that shown in Figures 9 and 10.
20
                  The traffic signal support 10 may include a cover 38 (see Figure 11) adapted to be
   coupled to the mounting 16 in place of the arm 18 so as to be interchangeable with the
   arm 18, the cover 38 being adapted to cover the mounting 16 such that the traffic signal
   support 10 is optionally able to be configured with or without the arm 18.            The traffic
25 signal support 10 may have a set of modular interchangeable components such that the
   traffic signal support 10 is able to be configured as a joint use mast arm (JUMA), a mast
   arm (MA), or a joint use pole (JUP). The cover 38 and interchangeable arm 18 are shown
   in Figure 11, as is a pole extension 40 which may be fitted with an outreach 42 for carrying
   lighting.
30
                  The benefits of examples of the invention may include:

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              -8
    1.            Increased safety for technicians and motorists.
   2.             Quicker response for faults on the mast-arms.
   3.             Decreased traffic congestion due to shorter/less demanding traffic management.
   4.             Easier way to deliver the pole.
 5 5.             Reduced width for lane closures during asset relocation works.
   6.             Modularity: should any modification be required on a traffic signal site JUMA, MA
                  or JUP, this system will allow making these changes without replacing the pole
                  base section (any pole can be converted into any other two configurations easily
                  and within minimum costs). To allow these modifications the base section can be
10                delivered with a cap for the street lighting extension and a cover for the mast arm
                  outreach.
                  While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it
   should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by
15 way of limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various
   changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope
   of the invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above
   described exemplary embodiments.
20                The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
   from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
25
                  Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
   of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
30 steps.

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              -9
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
      1.            A traffic signal support for supporting an overhead traffic signal over a vehicle
                    passageway/hazard wherein the support includes a pole having a base adapted for
 5                  fixing relative to a ground surface, a mounting on the pole, and an arm adapted to
                    have the traffic signal fitted thereto, wherein the arm is pivotably coupled to the
                    mounting such that the arm is able to be pivoted relative to the pole between an
                    operational condition in which the traffic signal is supported over the vehicle
                    passageway/hazard, and a maintenance condition in which the arm is retracted
10                  from the vehicle passageway/hazard.
     2.             A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pole has an elongated
                    portion extending upwardly from the base.
15    3.            A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 2, wherein the arm branches
                    outwardly from the elongated portion.
     4.             A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the elongated
                    portion extends upwardly from the base to the mounting.
20
      5.            A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the mounting is
                    located at a lower end of the elongated portion.
      6.            A traffic signal support as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
25                  mounting includes a fastening to fasten the arm in the operational condition.
      7.            A traffic signal support as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the
                    mounting includes a first pivotal coupling about which the arm is able to be
                    pivoted in a first direction relative to the pole, and a second pivotal coupling about
30                  which the arm is able to be pivoted in a second direction relative to the pole, the
                    second direction being generally opposite to the first direction.

   H:\safInterwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                             - 10
      8.           A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 7, wherein the first pivotal coupling is
                    spaced horizontally from the second pivotal coupling.
 5    9.           A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the first pivotal
                    coupling and the second pivotal coupling form said fastening, whereby the first
                   pivotal coupling serves to fasten the arm in the operational condition against
                   pivotal movement about the second pivotal coupling, and the second pivotal
                    coupling serves to fasten the arm in the operational condition against pivotal
10                 movement about the first pivotal coupling.
      10.          A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 9, wherein the first pivotal coupling is
                    in the form of a first pair of vertically spaced removable bolts forming a first
                   pivotal axis and the second pivotal coupling is in the form of a second pair of
15                 vertically spaced removable bolts forming a second pivotal axis.
      11.          A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 10, wherein the first and second pair
                    of bolts couple the arm to the pole by way of at least one bracket of the arm and at
                    least one bracket of the mounting.
20
      12.          A traffic signal support as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, including a link
                    for fastening the arm in the maintenance condition relative to the pole.
      13.          A traffic signal support as claimed in claim 12 when dependent on claim 11,
25                  wherein the link fastens the arm in the maintenance condition relative to the pole
                   by linking said at least one bracket of the arm to said at least one bracket of the
                    mounting.
      14.          A traffic signal support as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, including a cover
30                  interchangeable with the arm, the cover being adapted to cover the mounting such

   H:\saf\Interwoven\NRPortblDCC\SAF\4724462_ .doc-16/02/2018
                                                              - 11
                    that the traffic signal support is optionally able to be configured with or without
                    the arm.
      15.           A traffic signal support as claimed in any one of claims I to 14, wherein the traffic
 5                  signal support has a set of modular interchangeable components such that the
                    traffic signal support is able to be configured as a joint use mast arm (JUMA), a
                    mast arm (MA), or a joint use pole (JUP).
      16.           A traffic signal support substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to
10                  the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIGURE 2
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIGURE 4
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
