     Abstract:
     The invention relates to the use of an antimycotic agent and
an epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor for
producing a combination drug for the topical treatment of Can
dida mycoses selected from vulvovaginal candidiasis, oropharyn
geal candidiasis  (oral thrush),  diaper dermatitis (diaper
thrush) and intertriginous   (Candida) eczema.

                                                    1
                    Use of Combination Preparations, Comprising Antimycotics
         The present application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of AU
2013254945, which is a divisional of AU 2007250502, which is the national phase entry of
PCT/AT2007/000227, the entire specifications of which are incorporated herein by cross
reference.
         The invention relates to the use of combination preparations, comprising antimycotics,
for the treatment of Candida mycoses. Yeast, primarily Candida spp. (Candida albicans) usually
are opportunistic pathogens which become pathogenic only when the systemic or the local
immune defence is impaired (e.g. oral thrush in HIV patients, leukemia patients, under
chemotherapy, in babies; intertriginous eczema in Diabetes mellitus). An exception is
vulvovaginal Candida mycosis of an otherwise healthy woman. However, also with the vaginal
candidose there are a number of factors which cause an increase in the virulence of the pathogen,
and which, in case of a respective personal disposition, may change from an asymptomatic
colonization to a symptomatic disease.
         The vulvovaginal mycosis is a very frequent disease which has continuously increased
over the last years. According to recent estimates, three out of four women get a vaginal mycosis
at least once in their lifetime. In 5% of the cases, the disease takes a chronic-recurrent course
which often constitutes a severe subjective impairment for the afflicted patient. Treatment of the
vaginal mycosis is particularly difficult during pregnancy, since in this case there exist
particularly promoting factors on the side of the patient, while on the other hand the possible
therapies are considerably restricted and, thirdly, a therapy is absolutely necessary since
otherwise the newborn baby will be infected during birth.
         Oro-phyryngeal thrush diseases in turn pose a problem not only in newborns with their
immature immune system, but also in patients with an impaired immune defence, such as HIV
patients, patients undergoing chemotherapy and patients suffering from malignant hematological
tumours. As has been mentioned, it is known that infectious diseases attack debilitated and
immunosuppressed humans particularly easily, wherein - as is the case in many diseases caused
by Candida ssp. - harmless symbionts become pathogens.
         Nevertheless, this fact has not been sufficiently mechanistically considered in the
therapeutic concept. So far, no drug or combination of pharmaceutical substances in a drug has
received a market authorization by means of which the infectious

                                - 2
ness of the pathogen on cell level has declaredly been reduced
or stopped by influencing physiological reactions of the patient
in combination with a direct "attack" on the fungus.
     At present, the therapy of cutaneous and mucocutaneous can
didiasis is exclusively effected by antimycotics which, depend
ing on the respective dose, have a fungistatical or funcidal ef
fect and, depending on the active substance, are applied system
ically or locally.
      For the therapy of candida mycoses, such as the thrush of
the oral cavity or the vaginal mycosis, a plurality of drugs
having an antimicotic effect has been granted market authoriza
tion, in most cases for the topical, yet also for the systemic
therapy. The mechanism of the pharmacologic activity of nearly
all the pharmaceutical substances used is well known. Obviously,
most of the known mechanisms are geared to the infective organ
ism  (bacterium or fungus) itself. Thus,   a number of these phar
maceutical substances interferes    in the ergosterole-biosynthesis
(isoprene biosynthesis pathway) by inhibition. The pharmaceuti
cal substance attempts to inhibit or kill the fungus via physio
logical processes that   should differ from the human metabolism
as far as possible.
      In WO 00/56353 A2, peptides derived from alpha-metanocyte
stimulating hormone have been suggested for the treatment of
Candida vaginitis.
      EP 1 637 132 Al relates to compositions for the treatment of
athlete's foot in sportsmen.
      EP 0 592 348 Al discloses compositions for the treatment of
ophthalmic diseases.
     WO 2005/117831 describes posaconazole-containing prepara
tions for injection for the treatment of mycoses.
     According to WO 00/48633 Al,    antibodies to hydrophobic pro
teins have been suggested for combating Candida mycoses.
      US 2003/181384 Al  relates to administering trefoil peptides
for preventing epithelial damage possibly caused by infections.
Local anti-inflammatory vaginal rinses containing benzydamine
for the mechanical removal of a mass of fungus have been sug
gested by Levy   (Rev. fr. Gynecol. Obstet.  84 (1989), 779-781).
      For Candida vaginitis, primarily in case of a chronic course
thereof, the available   spectrum of active agents does not yield
any satisfactory option of therapy. This is particularly true if

                                - 3
the disease occurs during pregnancy.
      The molecular factors underlying the personal disposition
are not  known in detail, and accordingly, so far there is no
drug, or combination of pharmaceutical substances in a drug,
with which the infectiousness of the pathogen on cell level is
reduced, or stopped, respectively, by a concomitant direct "at
tack" on the fungus and an influence on the physiological reac
tions of the patient. Therefore, there is an urgent demand for
therapies against Candida mycoses which so far cannot be suc
cessfully treated by administering conventional antimycotics.     In
particular, Candida mycoses shall be treated which relate to in
fections of the mucosa, on the one hand, mainly vulvovaginal
candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis     (oral thrush), and, on
the other hand, Candida mycosis of previously damaged     (macer
ated) skin, such as diaper dermatitis    (diaper thrush),  and in
tertriginous eczema. Such a therapy should also enable treat
ments of vulvovaginal mycoses in pregnant women which requires a
particularly careful use of drugs.
      Accordingly, the present invention relates to the use of
-  an antimycotic agent and
-  an inhibitor of the adhesion of epithelial cells or endotheli
al cells,  for producing a combination drug for the topical
treatment of Candida mycoses selected from vulvovaginal candidi
asis, oropharyngeal candidiasis    (oral thrush),  diaper dermatitis
 (diaper thrush) and intertriginous eczema.
      The mycoses to be preferably treated according to the inven
tion have in common that not only the pathogen, but also the af
flicted organism   (of the patient) contributes considerably to
the generation of the disease and to the maintenance of the in
fection. Apart from the fact that the tendency to contract a
disease is basically higher in patients having an impaired im
mune system, it is   the mechanisms of infectiousness which are of
particular relevance in this connection. Only in recent years,
such concepts have increasingly been investigated in the re
search regarding anti-infective agents.
      The first step determining the infectiousness when a cell is
afflicted by a pathogen consists in the pathogen's attachment to
the plasma membrane of a cell. In general, a plurality of dif
ferent systems  of adhesion molecules,   i.e. cell-cell
interactions, have become known for such an attachment. The gen-

eral ability of pathogens for adhering to epitheliums and
edotheliums also occurs via the interaction with adhesion mole
cules. For certain pathogens, for certain organs and for certain
clinical pictures of diseases, a special set of involved adhe
sion molecules is to be expected. For infections in general, and
mycotic infections in particular, however, adhesion factors
which are only partially involved have been published, without,
however, having been summarized in a comprehensive concept, or
without having been introduced into a therapeutic concept. The
present invention is based on the finding that the same adhesion
molecules which play a decisive part in the course of the coagu
lation of blood during the adhesion of the thrombocytes and
whose expression is     induced by derivatives of the arachidonic
acid metabolism     (inter alia von Willebrand-factor, vitronectin,
fibronectin, integrins),       are induced during the transformation
to pathogenicity by accompanying factors or the pathogen itself
and, subsequently, are utilized for the adhesion by the primari
ly opportunistic pathogens.
      It has been known for quite some time that under the influ
ence of prostaglandins, Candida fungi undergo a transformation
of their shape from budding shape to hyphae shape which is           ac
companied by an increased growth. Prostaglandins are derivatives
of arachidonic acid. The active principle of the class of phar
maceutical substances of the NSAIDs, which are mainly used for
the treatment of inflammatory and rheumatic diseases, primarily
consists in the inhibition of the prostaglandin biosynthesis.
The influence of NSAIDs       on the growth of fungi has been demon
strated in in vitro experiments         (Scott et al.,  Antimicrob. Ag.
Chemother. 39    (12)  (1995),   2610-2614;   Tariq et al.,   Antimicrob.
Ag. Chemother. 39     (12)   (1995),  2615-2619;  Yucesoy et al.,   J.
Chemother. 12    (2000),   385-389).   In this combination with antimy
cotic agents,   an increase in the anti-mycotic effect has occa
sionally been observed, yet the term "paradox effect" has been
explicitly established for this,         since, in vitro, at some con
centrations and in some combinations, instead of an inhibition
there results an increased growth         (Arai et al.,  Mycoses 48
(2005),  38-41).   Thus, the effects of Ibuprofen in combination
with various antimycotics have been very varied           (Tariq et al.,
1995).  Fluconazole-sensitive       strains of C. albicans have not
shown an improved response to a combination of Ibuprofen with

                                 - 5
Fluconazole in the in vitro-system     (Arai et al., 2005). In sum
mary, the results of the in-vitro tests have shown that, based
on the growth of the fungus,    the effects depend on the respec
tive fungus strain used, yet that from these no conclusions can
be drawn on the medical efficacy at the site of the mycotic in
fection, neither in the one    (positive) nor in the other   (nega
tive) direction.
     Since usual in-vitro experiments regarding an anti-mycotic
activity of certain substances or substance combinations do not
take the physiological response of the host into consideration,
in none of these in-vitro projects, the part which the cell-cell
adhesion plays in the infection in general, or changes occurring
in the host's epithelium or endothelium, respectively, can have
been addressed in the least.
     Moreover, in the relevant literature,     the therapy resistance
occurring in the treatment of chronic-recurrent Candida vulvo
vaginitis i.a. has been attributed to the increased occurrence
of certain Candida subspecies     (without, however, offering a con
clusive total  concept).  Yet, especially for these subspecies, no
in vitro-results whatsoever are available.
     In case of Candida, in fact the transformation of the growth
habit from the budding form to the hyphae form is     a prerequisite
for the layer-type overgrowth. This clearly intensifies the
pathogenicity of the pathogen. The formation of the hyphae in
turn is promoted by prostaglandin E2 which is also formed by the
patient's endothelial cell/epithelial cell during the inflamma
tory process. Also the increased mucus formation of mucous mem
branes occurring during the inflammatory process plays a part in
this pathological process.
     Under certain promotive conditions in the microenvironment,
such as, e.g.,  an impaired immune situation, yet also in case of
suitable hormonal conditions    or a patient's genetic disposition
or, on the other hand, due to quorum sensing, some pathogens,
such as, in particular also Candida species,     are capable of
overgrowing the affected sector of the skin, mucosa or endothe
lium by forming a closed layer. This not only aggravates the
pathological process;   due to the transformation of the growth
habit, also the pathogen's vulnerability by local treatment
methods changes.  In this growth habit, the pathogens practically
can no longer be attacked by the usual locally applied antimy-

                               - 6
cotic agents. Chronification occurs, and it becomes necessary to
change from a local therapy to a systemtic therapy. A   systemic
antimycotic therapy, however, often constitutes a great strain
due to the spectrum of side effects of many antimycotic agents
and, in case of pregnant women, it is completely impossible be
cause of teratogenic effects. Yet,  even under systemic therapy,
the chronic-recurrent vulvovaginitis and colpitis caused by Can
dida spp.  (with Candida albicans and Candida glabrata being the
most frequent pathogens) often are not cured, and many female
patients suffer from several  recurrences each year.
     The present invention is based on the so far unknown finding
which, however, is  central with regard to infectiousness that,
when attaching to epithelial cells   (or to endothelial cells, re
spectively),  yeast fungi use arachidonic-acid-based mechanisms
of the body itself, by which the organism usually reacts to
cell-damaging noxae.
     Arachodonic acid is known to be converted on the cyclooxy
genase pathway not only to prostaglandins, but also to thrombox
ane and prostacycline. Under the influence of thromboxane, the
thrombocytes aggregate and adhere to the damaged membrane so as
to seal the latter. In order to enable an adhesion, different
adhesion molecules are not only presented by the thrombocyte;
also the endothelium specifically prepares itself for the adhe
sion. On molecular level, these effects are primarily mediated
via adhesion molecules, such as, e.g.,   von Willebrand factor.
The processes taking place during the adhesion occur temporally
adjusted in the thrombocyte and in the vessel endothelium. It is
mainly two derivatives of the arachidonic acid cascade which
play a decisive role as adversaries in the process of blood co
aguation: besides thromboxane which causes the aggregation of
thrombocytes, it is  the "adversary" prostacyclin which prevents
the reactive process from spreading excessively. The biosynthe
sis of thromboxane and prostacyclin is mediated by different en
zymes.
     Thromboxane is synthesized via cyclooxygenase-1   (COX1),
prostacyclin via cyclooxygenase-2  (COX2).
     An essential element of the mycotic infection consists in
that the fungus/host interaction comprises a series of mechanis
tic analogies to the thrombocyte/endothelium interaction. Pri
marily, this means that inflammatory processes occur in the host

cells either before or simultaneously with the mycotic infec
tion, i.e.   the transformation of apathogenic, or possibly patho
genic, respectively, to pathogenic causative agent       (e.g. Filler
et al.,   Inf. Immun. 64  (1996),  2609-2617;  Cannom et al.,  J.  Inf.
Dis.  186  (2002), 389-396),  which are controlled via the arachi
donic acid cascade, or that the adhesion of the fungus is ren
dered possible at all by previous inflammatory processes in the
host cell. On the part of the fungus, adhesion of the fungi to
the host cells occurs via the hyphae, on the part of the host
cell, it is substantially effected via an arachidonic-acid
dependent mechanism, utilizing the adhesion molecules expressed
under these conditions at the host cell, such as,      e.g.,  von Wil
lebrand factor, vitronectin,     fibronectin or various integrins.
      Providing an epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion
inhibitor in the combination preparation according to the pre
sent invention is,   therefore, an essential element for the anti
mycotic agent to become effective at all in the infected area of
the Candida mycoses to be treated according to the invention.
The nature of the epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion
inhibitor as such is not critical, the selection is generally
dictated by galenic aspects for     (promoting an) optimal activity
of the antimycotic agent. Therefore, antimycotic agent and epi
thelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor are opti
mized in the combination preparation also on the basis of their
physico-chemical properties. This     adhesion inhibitor according
to the invention exerts an influence on the arachidonic acid me
tabolism so that the inventive combination is capable of syner
gistically acting on the mycotic infection at the site of infec
tion and by utilizing the patient's endogenous arachidonic acid
mechanisms.
      Preferably, therefore,   the epithelial cell or endothelial
cell adhesion inhibitor is selected from
- a non-steroidal antiphlogistic agent      (NSAID) with a sufficient
COX1 inhibition which, on the one hand, results from the intrin
sic activity and, on the other hand, from the extent of the se
lectivity of the inhibition of COX1 relative to COX2 under ther
apeutic conditions.   This means that all the substances which ex
hibit a more selective COX2    inhibition than, e.g.,   Meloxicam or
Diclofenac, are not suitable as defined by the invention        (such
as,  of course, also all the substances which do not exhibit any

                               - 8
activity or effects on the arachidonic acid metabolism).     The se
lection in terms of number is  effected, e.g.,   by stating the
COX1/COX2 ratio of the IC50 values, yet this will differ with
the method used. Suitable compounds may, e.g.,    be defined in
terms of numbers in accordance with the data supplied by K.
Brune et al.  (Deutsches Arzteblatt 97,   (26) 2000, A-1818/B
1538/C-1434) by a COX1/COX2 ratio   (IC50) of    20,
- prostacyclin or a prostacyclin analogue, preferably Ilaprost
or Cicaprost;  or
- inhibitors of the expression of epithelial- and endothelial
adhesion molecules, preferably Ticlopidin or Clopidogrel.
     These three categories  constitute the main inhibitors of ep
ithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion. For all the three
groups, substances at present already have a market authoriza
tion or are in an advanced-stage clinical study.
     Therefore, in the combination preparation according to the
invention drugs are preferably contained which inhibit the
thrombocyte aggregation, such as mainly NSAID with COX1
inhibition, or medicaments which prevent the expression or the
function of adhesion molecules in the endothelium connected with
this process, which exacerbate or prevent the adhesion of patho
gens to the endothelium or epithelium, respectively in an analo
gous manner. This  is not only effected via the suppression of
the expression of suitable adhesion molecules, but mainly also
by triggering/increasing the shedding of these surface mole
cules. In the same way, prostacyclin itself and prostacyclin
derivatives are capable of reducing or stopping the adhesion.
The inventive use of such compounds in combination with an anti
mycotic agent thus both prevents the infection, and also pre
vents the "boosting" of the infection triggered by inflammatory
processes occurring in the course of the infection. The      finding
that such a complex process as the adhesion of a fungus to the
endothelium of the host can be influenced by active substances
of a well-known class has not been known so far and forms the
basis of the combination preparations according to the invention
by which the surprising clinical results according to the pre
sent invention could be achieved, in particular     in case of the
preferred Candida mycoses described which so far could not be
treated or could be treated only with difficulty.
     The inventive combinations of pharmaceutical substances are

                                 -  9
intended for topical application      (at mucosae or also on highly
inflamed skin areas, such as in case of diaper thrush, and in
tertriginous eczema) for treating mycoses        (vulvovaginitis oro
pharyngeal candidiasis   (oral thrush),    diaper dermatitis inter
trignious eczema) and, as mentioned before, consist of an anti
mycotic agent and an adhesion inhibitor of epithelial cells or
endothelial cells, which inhibitor exacerbates, or prevents, re
spectively, the adhesion of the pathogen to the epithelial
and/or endothelial cells and the formation of a layer-shaped
colonization of the affected epithelial or endothelial sector,
by suppressing the above-described mechanisms.
     As has been mentioned above, it is particularly preferred to
use an NSAID compound. Yet, not all the NSAIDs are suitable com
pounds in the combination preparation according to the present
invention, since NSAIDs,   depending on their profiles        (COX1
inhibitor or COX2-inhibitor),    generally have a promoting        (COX2)
or inhibiting effect   (COX1) on an adhesion. For this reason, the
treatment of dermatologic diseases with a combination that con
tains a selective COX2-inhibitor      (such as, e.g.,    disclosed in US
2005/0014729 A)  is wrong with regard to the therapeutic aim of
the present invention,   i.e. causing the reduction of the adhe
sion in the patient's endothelium or epithelium. Highly selec
tive COX2 inhibitors or anti-inflammatory agents without an ac
tivity on the arachidonic acid mechanism       (such as,   e.g.,  benzy
damine  (Riboldi et al.,  Br. J.   Pharmacol.   140   (2003),  377-383))
are no relevant compounds as defined by the present invention.
     The selectivity of the NSAID is,      e.g.,   expressed by the ra
tio of the IC 50   (microM) COX1/COX2, yet the values will gener
ally depend on the pharmacological test systems used and will
differ greatly, and therefore, according to the invention, the
values are determined in terms of numbers according to the data
given by K.  Brune et al.   (Deutsches Arzteblatt      97,  (26) 2000, A
1818/B-1538/C-1434).
     What is essential   for the therapeutic effectiveness is a
sufficient COX1-inhibition    (absolute value of the IC 50)       at the
respective administered therapeutic dose. Most of the NSAIDs are
mixed COX1/COX2-inhibitors. As long as there exists a COX1           inhi
bition, the COX2-inhibition is very wellcome        (because of the
suppression of pain).   Therefore, NSAIDs without or with only a
slight preference of the COX2 are substances to be used accord-

                                 -   10
ing to the invention. Not suitable are, however -      as mentioned
before -   (highly) selective COX2-inhibitors which do not have a
COX1 effect or have only an insufficient COX1 effect under ther
apeutical conditions    (dosages). On the contrary, the selective
COX2 inhibitors may even negatively affect the clinical picture
and, therefore, are to be avoided within the scope of the thera
py according to the invention. Therefore, according to the in
vention NSAIDs which have a value of > 20 for the COX1/COX2
ratio   (based on the above-cited literature)    are to be excluded
(for highly-selective COX2-inhibitors with a market authoriza
tion, values of more than 100      result, e.g. Celecoxib, Rofecoxib,
Valdecoxib, Etoricoxib).
     Accordingly, the NSAID in the combination preparation ac
cording to the present invention preferably is selected from Di
clofenac, Fenclofenac, Alclofenac, Lonazolac, Clidanac,
Oxipinac, Clopinac, Tolmetin, Indomethacin, mefenamic acid,
flufenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, tolfenamic acid, niflumic
acid, Floctafenin, bucloxic acid, Ibuprofen, Dextroprofen,
Prapoprofen, Miroprofen, Fenoprofen, Fluprofen, Flurbiprofen,
Ketoprofen, Alminoprofen, Tioxaprofen, tiaprofenic acid,
Isoxepac, Nimesulid, Meloxicam, Tenoxicam, Lornoxicam, Piroxi
cam, Droxicam, Sudoxicam, Naproxen, Bufexamac, Etofenamate,
Felbinac, Nabumeton, Ketorolac, Etodolac, Oxaprocin, salicylic
acid, acetylsalicylic acid, Flufenisal,      Diflunisal, Benorylat,
Fentiazac, Azapropazon, Phenylbutazone, Kebuzon, pharmazeutical
ly active salts or esters of these substances or mixtures of
these substances,   in particular Diclofenac, Nimesulid, Fenclo
fenac, Alclofenac, Lonazolac, Tolmetin, Indometacin, mefenamic
acid, flufenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, Floctafenin, Ibu
profen, Flurbiprofen, Ketoprofen, Alminoprofen, Meloxicam,
Tenoxicam, Lornoxicam, Naproxen, Etofenamate, Felbinac,
Nabumeton, Ketorolac or Etodolac.
      The particular significance of the combination according to
the invention of an antimycotic agent and an adhesion inhibitor
of epithelial or endothelial cells will directly depend on the
extent of the effect of the second component which primarily
contributes to the therapeutic effect by an adhesion-suppressing
effect on the patient's endothelium and/or epithelium. There
fore, it is of particular importance to consider that the term
"skin diseases" covers a broad range of skin tissues of com-

                                -   11
pletely different structures:     from an adult's nail to a baby's
mucosa. What is common to all the diseases which have been men
tioned as preferred indications for the combination preparation
according to the present invention     (vulvovaginal candidiasis,
oropharyngeal candidiasis    (oral thrush),  diaper dermatitis   (dia
per thrush) and intertriginous eczema) is that it is the surface
of the afflicted tissue sectors which, due to the expression of
corresponding adhesion molecules, enables an adhesion of the
fungal colonies. The combination preparation according to the
invention serves for the therapy of mycoses, preferably for the
therapy of Candida mycoses which, typically, occur on the afore
mentioned skin types, i.e. mucosae of the genitourinary tract
and the oropharyngeal region as well as on previously damaged
(macerated, injured, inflammatorily changed) outer skin.
     Accordingly, it is   not a subject matter of the present in
vention to carry out a therapy of dermatophyte diseases       (EP-1
390 031-B1) with the combination preparation described, which
diseases often colonize the keratic layers of the epidermis,
since there the contribution to the therapeutic success which is
provided by preventing the adhesion of the fungus to the host's
epithelium is markedly lower and, therefore, the inventive ef
fect will not occur. This also holds, e.g.,      for the treatment of
mycoses of the nails   (WO 2000/028821 Al),   since here, too, the
use of the inventive combination preparation is not purposeful
since, here, too, the surprising synergism of the two components
in the inventive preparation will not occur      (to the inventive
extent),  in particular because in this instance the state of the
epithelium is  of minor importance compared to the particulari
ties of the therapy of these diseases,     in particular the poor
"accessability" of the therapeutic agent.
     For the topical therapy according to the invention with the
described combination drug on mucosae or previously damaged out
er skin, respectively, according to the invention not only sig
nificantly lower concentrations of the active substance will ba
sically suffice as compared to diseases of the normal or more
keratinized outer skin and its adnexa, also a significant im
provement of the subjective and objective disease symptoms will
occur within a substantially shorter time      (from minutes to a few
hours vs.  from days to weeks when applying the treatment methods
common at present).Thus, the particularly low dosage of the ad-

                               -  12
hesion-inhibiting active substance is a substantial advantage
with the present invention. This rapid start of the effective
ness is solely caused by the procedures on the skin or mucosal
surface that has been changed due to inflammation and, there
fore, can be forecast or determined in principle neither by in
vitro-tests nor by examinations on the non-inflamed outer skin.
Since the greatly enhanced effect is caused solely based on
mechanisms occurring on the exposed surface of the respectively
afflicted organ  (expression and rejection of the adhesion
sites), particularly also this effect cannot be determined by
in-vitro experiments, and, in fact, it has been shown that in
vitro experiments, depending on the fungus    strain used, the dos
age and the combinations of pharmaceutical substances used, have
yielded the most contradictory results. In this context, it is
also notable that the combination of Fluconazol with Iboprofen
in Fluconazol-sensitive  strains has not shown any synergistic
effect in the in-vitro experiment    (Arai et al.,  2005).   The ef
fect obtainable with the combination preparation of the inven
tion therefore also cannot be derived in this way      (via in-vitro
experiments). Also in case of a systemic administration of the
inventive combination preparation, in particular of the epithe
lial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor      (i.e.,  e.g.,
the NSAID chosen according to the invention),     for pharmaco
kinetic reasons a respective effect is not to be expected even
at a common dosage, and much less so at the low dosages which
are made possible with the present invention.
     The required low dose is also due to the fact that the epi
thelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor exerts its
effect both on the fungus and on the epithelium of the patient.
     Thus, also a treatment of breastfeeding babies and of preg
nant women is possible.
     Thus, the effect of the inventive combination of pharmaceu
tical substances is based on
1. suppressing pathogen growth,
2. suppressing adhesion of the pathogen on the host cell,
3. suppressing the acute inflammation and pain symptoms by in
hibiting the prostaglandin synthesis on the part of the afflict
ed organism,
4. preventing the generation of the promotive factors
in the local environment, i.e.   the adhesion to the host cell up-

                                 - 13
on transformation of the pathogen and, thus, preventing an ag
gravation of the clinical picture, and
5. interrupting the pathogenetic mechanism in case an aggrava
tion/chronification has    occurred,
wherein 2.-5.  are mediated by the epithelial cell or endothelial
cell adhesion inhibitor    (which interferes in the arachidonic ac
id cascade) and 1.   is mediated according to the mechanism of ac
tivity of the antimycotic agent used.
     This allows for a therapy concept which is     completely new as
compared to the prior art, which -    apart from the effectiveness
which by itself already is surprising in     (chronic-recurrent)
vulvovaginal candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis      (oral
thrush),  diaper dermatitis   (diaper thrush) and intertriginous
eczema -  is, moreover, characterized by the following advantages
and effects compared to the prior art:
1. possibility of a local therapy,
2. in case of chronification, marked reduction of the tendency
to recurrence,
3. highly accelerated onset of effect,
4. significantly reduced dosage of the antimycotic agent, and
5. immediate pain relief.
     Ad 1.  In case of promotive factors, in particular also for
an aggravation/chronification, e.g. an immunosuppression, hormo
nal and genetic factors,    according to the present invention the
pathogenetic mechanism on which the disease disposition is based
is inhibited. The disease can be controlled, and cured, respec
tively, without a systemic therapy. Avoiding the changeover to a
systemic therapy   (which often is effected by using pharmaceuti
cal substances that are a greater strain) is     important both in
case of an existing pregnancy and in patients suffering from
HIV, leukaemia or under chemotherapy and markedly reduces the
strain on the patient, according to both subjective      (compliance)
and objective criteria    (strain on the metabolism).  The chronic
recurrent vulvovaginitis in pregnancy can hardly be controlled
by means of the conventional therapy regimen, since the systemic
application of the orally applicable antimycotic agents      (Flucon
azol) is  absolutely counter-indicated in pregnancy.
     Ad 2. Also in case of a chronic-recurrent course of the dis
ease  (in particular in case of vulvovaginitis due to Candida in
fections),  the underlying pathogenic mechanism is    interrupted,

                                 - 14
and a topical therapy is    rendered possible instead of the long
lasting systemic therapy.
      Ad 3. Compared to the hitherto usual therapy, the onset of
the effect is greatly accelerated, i.e.     it occurs within minutes
(vulvovaginitis) to hours    (diaper thrush) as compared to days to
weeks   (or not at all) in conventional therapy.
      Basically, the difference resides mainly in the duration of
treatment, the therapy regimen proper will, however, first of
all depend on the half-life of the pharmaceutical substances
used. The difference may, e.g.,    be elucidated by way of the
chronic-recurrent vulvovaginitis:
      Use according to the invention:
Initial therapy:   3-5x daily local application of the drug combi
nation as an ointment, or by means of another locally applicable
drug formulation for three to five days;
in case of recurrent affliction:     2-3x daily local application
for one day is   sufficient  (the recurrence-free intervals will
always become longer with continued application).
      In contrast, the present therapy regimen     (source: Leitlinien
der deutschen Gesellschaft f~r Gynakologie und Geburtshilfe):
Initial therapy:
      Fluconazol  150 mg orally, 1 or 2x/week for 4-6 weeks, subse
quently
      Fluconazol  150 mg orally, lx/2 weeks for 2-3 months,    subse
quently
      Fluconazol  150 mg orally, lx/4 weeks for 4-6 months.
After discontinuation, about 50%     of the cases become recurrent,
as before the therapy.
      Ad 4:  Due to the potentiating effect, the total dose of the
antimycotic can be markedly reduced, in case of the uncomplicat
ed vulvovaginal mycosis, one can assume a by at least 50%      re
duced total dose due to the reduced treatment period, in the
oropharyngeal mycosis, the reduction may be up to 66%.
      Ad 5:  With the often very painful acute clinical pictures,
by the simultaneous topical application of NSAID with the anti
mycotic agent, an immediate pain relief and detumescence with
missing to minimal total strain on the organism is achieved with
the NSAID   (non-steroidal antiphlogistic agents) which, systemi
cally applied, are not   free from side effects. As has been men
tioned, the treatment according to the invention is based on the

                                 - 15
finding that the expression of certain adhesion molecules at the
tissue surface of the diseased organism or organ, respectively,
constitutes a basic prerequisite     for the colonization by yeasts.
The combination of conventional antimycotic agents with epithe
lial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitors therefore di
rectly interferes    in the pathogenetic process.   As has been men
tioned, epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitors
are substances which exacerbate or prevent, respectively, the
adhesion of the pathogens to epithelial and/or endothelial cells
and the formation of a layer-shaped colonization of the afflict
ed epithelial or endothelial sector. From the nature of the re
sponsible adhesion molecules it results that their expression is
prevented by active substances which interfere in the prosta
glandin metabolism in a certain way. From the inventive combined
application of antimycotically effective substances and epithe
lial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitors, there results
a potentiation of the therapeutic effect. The duration of treat
ment is greatly shortened, and a local treatment becomes possi
ble also in those cases    in which so far exclusively a systemic
therapy had chances of success. Moreover, this type of a combi
nation of pharmaceutical substances also is effective in cases
which are completely therapy-resistant to drugs available at
present.
      Therefore, the subject matter of the invention is the use of
the inventive combinations of pharmaceutical substances for the
topical application on mucosae and on greatly inflamed and/or
macerated skin areas for the treatment of mycoses, preferably
those caused by Candida spp.     (vulvovaginitis, oropharyngeal can
didiasis   (oral thrush),  diaper dermatitis  (diaper thrush), in
tertriginous eczema).
     Application of the inventive combination preparation is ex
clusively local    (ointments, vaginal tablet, vaginal supposito
ries etc.)   to skin and mucosae. The dosage of the antimycotic
agent   (peferably Clotrimazol) is effected at the concentration
hitherto common, yet the daily total dose can be halved, and the
total treatment time is markedly reduced     (from 7 to 2-3 days).
The epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor is
administered at 1/5    to 1/100 of the daily maximum dose as an ad
mixture to the ointment/vaginal tablet etc.
      During the topical therapy with an inventive combination of

                               - 16
pharmaceutical substances, as mentioned above, the total amounts
of active substance that are substantially lower than those
hitherto used in the antimycotic monotherapy suffice, and also
the NSAID component is used at a significantly lower concentra
tion than in all other indications for which so far drugs of
such substances have been used. Thus, also a treatment of
breastfeeding babies and pregnant women is possible.
     Within a substantially shorter period of time   (from minutes
to a few hours, as compared to from days to weeks when using the
treatment methods common at present),   a significant improvement
of the subjective and objective disease symptoms will occur.
This rapid onset of the effect is   solely caused by the processes
at the surface of the mucosa and goes back to the effect of ara
chidonic acid derivatives triggered at the afflicted organ sur
faces and, therefore, can neither be detected in in-vitro tests
nor by examinations carried out on the normal outer skin.
     The nature of the antimycotic active substance to be em
ployed in the present combination preparation in principle is
not critical, as a rule, always an optimized combination pair
will be used, wherein the optimization primarily is based on the
antimycotic spectrum of the antimycotic agent, on the galenics
and on the physoco-chemical interactions of the antimycotic
agent with the epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion in
hibitor.
     Preferred are, of course, those antimycotic agents which al
ready have a market authorization.
     Therefore, the antimycotic agent in the combination prepara
tion according to the invention preferably is an azole or a con
azole, preferably Clotrimazole, Bifonazole, Croconazole, Micona
zole, Econazole,  Isoconazole, Itraconazole, Fenticonazole, Tio
conazole, Sertaconazole, Sulconazole, Omoconazole, Oxiconazole,
Fluconazole, Voriconazole or Ketokonazole, in particular Clotri
mazole and Miconazole, a squalene epoxidase inhibitor, prefera
bly Naftifin or Terbinafin, or an antibiotic, preferably Nysta
tin, Amphotericin B,  Capsofungin or Natamycin,
or Tolciclate, Tolnaftate, Ciclopirox, Haloprogin, Butenafine,
Flucytosine.
     Preferably, the combination drug according to the present
invention is prepared as ointment, cream, lotion, gel, tincture,
solution, vaginal  suppository, vaginal, buccal or sublingual

                                 - 17
tablet, syrup, suspension, powder, spray or aerosol.
     According to a preferred embodiment of the present inven
tion, the combination drug may be provided on an inert carrier,
in particular on a vaginal ring, a diaphragm or a tampon.
     The invention will be described in more detail by way of the
following examples without, however, being restricted thereto.
     Examinations and results on humans -    case  studies
     So far, the therapy concept according to the invention has
been examined on voluntary subjects within the frame of the doc
tors' freedom of prescription. Before the combination therapy,
all the patients had received an unsuccessful antimycotic mono
therapy.
     In the following, 6 examples will be described:
vulvovaginitis:  3 cases
diaper thrush:  2 cases
oral thrush:  1 case
     The treatment was by topical administration of suitable
pharmaceutical substance combinations on the skin, or on the mu
cosae of the genitourinary tract and of the oropharynx, respec
tively.
     The following combinations were used:
Vulvovaginitis:
     Case 1:
     A  female 41-year old patient suffering from chronic
recurrent Candida vulvovaginitis for years     (> 10 recurrenc
es/year),  otherwise healthy, pregnant, prior treatment     (before
the pregnancy) both topical    (Clotrimazole, Nystatin) and system
ically  (Fluconazole, several   times, also long-term therapy and
therapy of the partner).   Massive deterioration with complete
therapy resistance to local treatment with Clotrimazole during
pregnancy, extreme subjective complaints for weeks.
     Gyn. findings:  vulva severely reddened, clearly swollen,
bloody excoriations. Mucosa of the vagina and portio reddened.
Massive vaginal discharge, smear findings: PAP 2.,     microbiol.
swab, native finding:   abundant leukocytes,  fungus hyphae detect
able in large masses, RG 3.
     Therapy with an ointment combination of Clotrima
zole/Diclofenac-Na
Single dose:  5 mg of Diclofenac-Na/20 mg of Clotrimazole
Dosage regimen:  initially   (3 days) 3x/day ointment strips of

                                   - 18
2.5 cm locally applied in vulva and vagina, subsequently once
per day, for 4 days.
      The applied dose    (total dose) of Diclofenac-Na is approxi
mately 1/30 of the maximum daily dose at systemic application.
The Clotrimazole dose is      one half of the usual daily dose.
      Findings after one week of therapy        (three days after termi
nation of therapy):
      Patient subjectively free from complaints,         (since beginning
of therapy).   Gyn.   findings: vulva:    results negative;   mucosae of
vagina and portio:     results negative. Low-grade vaginal dis
charge. Microbiol. swab, native findings:         no fungus hyphae de
tectable, isolated spores. Normal vaginal flora          (lactobacilli),
RG 1.
      Follow-up:   6 months
Over the next three months, approximately 2 recurrencies/month,
one-day treatment as above in each case resulted in immediate
freedom from complaints.
Following months:     complete freedom from complaints, no new re
currences.
      Case 2:
      43-year old female patient, suffering from chronic-recurrent
Candida vulvovaginitis for years        (> 10 recurrences/year),    other
wise healthy, prior treatment both topical          (Clotrimazole, Micon
azole) and systemically      (Fluconazole, several times, also      long
term therapy and therapy of the partner).         Acute exacerbation,
low-grade improvement under therapy with Clotrimazole           (8 days),
partly extreme subjective complaints for 2 weeks.
      Gyn. findings:    vulva severely reddened, clearly swollen. Mu
cosa of the vaginal and portio reddened. Massive vaginal dis
charge.
      Initial therapy: Clotrimazole/Diclofenac         (25/25 mg) supp.
for 2 days, subsequently
      Clotrimazole/Diclofenac as ointment as described in Case 1,
for 3 days.
      Findings after 1 week:     patient subjectively free from com
plaints   (since 2 "d day after beginning of therapy).      Gyn.  find
ings: vulva results negative; mucosae of vagina and portio:           re
sults negative. Low-grade vaginal discharge.
      Case 3:
      42-year old female patient, suffering from chronic-recurrent

                                 - 19
Candida vulvovaginitis for years      (> 10 recurrences/year),  other
wise healthy, prior treatment both topical       (Clotrimazole, Nysta
tin) and systemical    (Fluconazole, several times,    also long-term
therapy and therapy of the partner).      Acute exacerbation, during
this recurrence no pre-treatment, moderate subjective complaints
for 2 days.
     Gyn. findings:   vulva reddened, swollen. Mucosa of the vagi
nal and portio reddened. Increased vaginal discharge.
     Therapy:  Clotrimazole/Diclofenac as ointment as described
under Case 1 on the first day 5x/day, from the 2        day onward
3x/day for a total   of three days.
     Findings after 1 week:    Patient subjectively free from com
plaints  (since 18 hours after the beginning of therapy).      Gyn.
findings: vulva results negative;      mucosae of vagina and portio:
results negative. Low-grade vaginal discharge.
     Case 4:
     Diaper thrush:
     Female breastfeeding baby, 12 months old, therapy-resistant
eczema for more than 5 weeks at the labia majora       (pre-treatment
by paediatrician and dermatologists with:      zinc-oxide containing
baby cream, Nystatin-containing cream, antibiotic       (antibacteri
al) cream and powder, Clotrimazol-containing cream, corticoster
oids. Under these therapies,    continuous deterioration of the
clinical picture.
     Insp.: Pronounced reddening and swelling of the labia majora
and perianally.
     Therapy with an ointment combination of Clotrima
zole/Diclofenac-Na
     Single dose:   ointment strips of approximately 5 cm in the
evening  (corresponding to approximately 10 mg of Diclofenac
Na/40 mg Clotrimazole),    complete healing over night. Subsequent
ly, intestinal sanitation with Nystatin, oral suspension.
     Follow-up   (6 months):  no further complaints
     Case 5:
     Diaper thrush:
     Female breastfeeding baby, 2 months old, repeated diaper
thrush  (red papules).
     Insp:  Small papules on the skin of the labia majora and in
the perianal region.
     Therapies tested:    during various episodes,    comparison of

                                 - 20
Clotrimazole cream with and without the addition of Diclofenac
Na.
Monotherapy:  Clotrimazole cream    (Canesten),  single dose:  approx
imately 25 mg of Clotrimazole
Combination:  Clotrimazole/Diclofenac-Na, single dose:     approxi
mately 5 mg of Diclofenac-Na/20 mg of Clotrimazole.
In both cases,  local application, dosage:     4-5x/day.
     Result:
Monotherapy:  duration of treatment until complete disappearance
of the lesions:  3 days.
Combination therapy:   duration of treatment until complete disap
pearance of lesions:   24 hours.
     Case 6:
     Oral thrush:
     Female breastfeeding baby, 2 months old, repeated oral
thrush  (white lesions).
Insp.: typical white furs on the inner side of the upper and
lower lips,  diameter 4-5 mm.
     Therapies tested:    during various episodes comparison of
Miconazole gel with and without the addition of Mefenamic acid.
Monotherapy:  Miconazole    (Daktarin gel),  single dose 30 mg
Combination:  Miconazole/mefenamic acid     (gel).
In both cases  local application, dosage:     2-3x/day
Single dose:  approximately 25 mg of mefenamic acid/30 mg of
Miconazole
     Result:
Monotherapy:  duration of treatment until complete disappearance
of the lesions:  5 days
Combination therapy:   after 12 hours, significant reduction of
the lesions, duration of treatment until complete disappearance
of the lesions:  24 hours.
     Summary of the results of the single case      studies:
     Vulvovaginitis:   The cases described were particularly severe
cases of chronic-recurrent Candida vaginitis. Under monotherapy
with Clotrimazole, the course of curing was highly retarded in
the second case   (8 days  of intensive therapy, then improvement,
but no freedom from complaints),      in the first and third cases no
improvement could be achieved by conventional local therapy with
Clotrimazole. By using the pharmaceutical substance combina
tions, an immediate marked improvement of the subjective and ob-

                               -   21
jective symptoms occurred, and already on the second day of
treatment, in all the cases the complaints completely disap
peared.
     Diaper thrush:  Under Clotrimazole monotherapy, marked dete
rioration of the clinical picture in the first case, healing af
ter three days in the second   (mild) case. Complete healing after
the use of the pharmaceutical substance combination within 12
and 24 hours, respectively.
     Oral thrush:  healing with Miconazole monotherapy after 4-5
days  (criterion of diagnosis:   no plaques visible any longer in
the oral cavity).  During a second episode, treatment with the
pharmaceutical substance combination, no plaques visible any
longer after two hours.
     These results show that in case of Candida mycoses which are
particularly difficult to treat, the combination preparation of
the invention brings about a surprisingly rapid and comprehen
sive healing which could not be achieved with the monotherapy
(antimkycotic agent only).
     The success of the treatment was the clearer the more pro
nounced the initial  findings had been.

                                 22
Forms of the invention may include the following:
1.    The use of
-  an antimycotic agent and
-  an epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor
for preparing a combination drug for topical treatment of
Candida mycoses selected from vulvovaginal      candidiasis,
oropharyngeal candidiasis    (oral thrush),   diaper dermatitis
 (diaper thrush) and intertriginous eczema.
2.    The use according to form 1, characterised in that the
antimycotic agent is an azole or conazole, preferably
Clotrimazole, Bifonazole, Miconazole, Econazole, Isokonazole,
Itraconazole, Fenticonazole, Tioconazole, Serticonazole,
Omoconazole, Oxiconazole, Fluconazole, in particular
Clotrimazole, a squalene epoxidase inhibitor,
preferably Naftifin or Terbinafin, or
a polyene antimycotic agent, preferably Nystatin,
Amphotericin B,   Capsofungin or Natamycin,
or Ciclopirox, Butenafine, Flucytosin.
3.   The use according to form 1 or 2,    characterised in that
the epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor is
selected from
-  a non-steroidal antiphlogistic agent     (NSAID) having a
sufficient COX1-inhibition, defined by the exclusion of
compounds having a COX1/COX2 ratio     (IC50, microM) of > 20;
-  prostacyclin or a prostacyclin analogue, preferably Ilaprost
or Cicaprost;  or
-  inhibitors of the expression of epithelial and endothelial
adhesion molecules, preferably Ticlopidine or Clopidogrel.
4.    The use according to any one of forms 1 to 3,
characterised in that the NSAID is selected from Indomethacin,
mefenamic acid, Ketoprofen, acetyl salicylic acid, Ibuprofen,
Lornoxicam, flufenamic acid, Diclofenac, Piroxicam, Bufexamac,
Etofenamate,  Felbinac, Tenoxicam, pharmaceutically active
salts or esters of these substances or mixtures of these
substances,  in particular Diclofenac, Ibuprofen or Lornoxicam.

                              23
5.   The use according to any one of forms 1 to 4,
characterised in that the combination drug is prepared as
ointment, cream, lotion, gel, tincture, solution, vaginal
suppository, vaginal, buccal or sublingual tablet, syrup,
suspension, powder, spray or aerosol.
6.   The use according to any one of forms 1 to 3,
characterised in that the combination drug is provided on an
inert carrier, in particular on a vaginal ring, a diaphragm or
a tampon.

                                                   24
CLAIMS
1.      The use of
- an antimycotic agent and
- an epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor
for preparing a combination drug for topical treatment of Candida mycoses selected from
vulvovaginal candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis (oral thrush), diaper dermatitis (diaper
thrush) and intertriginous eczema;
wherein the epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor is a non-steroidal antiphlogistic
agent (NSAID) having a sufficient COXI-inhibition, defined by the exclusion of compounds
having a COX1/COX2 ratio (IC50, microM) of > 20.
2.      The use according to claim 1, wherein the antimycotic agent is an azole or conazole,
preferably Clotrimazole, Bifonazole, Miconazole, Econazole, Isokonazole, Itraconazole,
Fenticonazole, Tioconazole, Serticonazole, Omoconazole, Oxiconazole, Fluconazole, in
particular Clotrimazole, a squalene epoxidase inhibitor,
preferably Naftifin or Terbinafin, or
a polyene antimycotic agent, preferably Nystatin, Amphotericin B, Capsofungin or Natamycin,
or Ciclopirox, Butenafine, Flucytosin.
3.      The use according to claims 1 or claim 2, wherein the NSAID is selected from
Indomethacin, mefenamic acid, Ketoprofen, acetyl salicylic acid, Ibuprofen, Lornoxicam,
flufenamic acid, Diclofenac, Piroxicam, Bufexamac, Etofenamate, Felbinac, Tenoxicam,
pharmaceutically active salts or esters of these substances or mixtures of these substances, in
particular Diclofenac, Ibuprofen or Lornoxicam.
4.      The use according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the combination drug is prepared
as ointment, cream, lotion, gel, tincture, solution, vaginal suppository, vaginal, buccal or
sublingual tablet, syrup, suspension, powder, spray or aerosol.
5.      The use according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the combination drug is provided
on an inert carrier, in particular on a vaginal ring, a diaphragm or a tampon.

                                                  25
6.     A method of treatment of Candida mycoses selected from vulvovaginal candidiasis,
oropharyngeal candidiasis (oral thrush), diaper dermatitis (diaper thrush) and intertriginous
eczema in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising the topical administration of a
combination drug comprising an antimycotic agent and an epithelial cell or endothelial cell
adhesion inhibitor,
wherein the epithelial cell or endothelial cell adhesion inhibitor is a non-steroidal antiphlogistic
agent (NSAID) having a sufficient COXI-inhibition, defined by the exclusion of compounds
having a COX1/COX2 ratio (IC50, microM) of > 20.
                                           Christian Noe
                                      Marion Noe-Letschnig
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

