                                           ABSTRACT
        A computer-implemented method executed by one or more processors, the method
including identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property,
wherein identifying the flood protection certificate information includes automatically
recognizing the flood protection certificate information based on one or more naming
conventions associated with flood protection policies, identifying one or more rules related
to the flood protection certificate information; automatically determining a compliance status
of the flood protection certificate information based on the one or more rules, establishing an
electronic communication session with an electronic device associated with the property,
and transmitting, through the electronic communication session and to the electronic device
associated with the property, information indicating at least one deficiency of the flood
protection certificate information with respect to the one or more rules and at least one
corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency.

    1/14
                 N
             CCN
         C'4
CCo
CCN

                                                1
        AUTOMATED REGULATORY COMPLIANCE FOR INSURANCE
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application Number
<removed-apn> filed 29 March 2016, the content of which is also incorporated by reference
herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    This specification generally relates to automated reviewing, tracking, and enabling
of compliance.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]    Computerized systems enable processing of documents to determine the content
and nature of the documents. For example, some computerized systems use optical
character recognition (OCR) to extract information about textual content in documents,
and/or image processing techniques to extract information about image content in
documents. A computerized system may then perform processing on the extracted textual
or image information to determine the nature of the documents' contents.

                                                2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       This specification generally relates to systems and techniques that perform
automated review and tracking of compliance of documents with respect to one or more rules
or regulations, and, if a deficiency in compliance is detected, automatically perform remedial
actions to enable compliance.
[0005]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method
executed by one or more processors, the method including identifying flood protection
certificate information associated with a property, wherein identifying the flood protection
certificate information includes automatically recognizing the flood protection certificate
information based on one or more naming conventions associated with flood protection
policies, identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate information,
automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate information
based on the one or more rules, establishing an electronic communication session with an
electronic device associated with the property, and transmitting, through the electronic
communication session and to the electronic device associated with the property, information
indicating at least one deficiency of the flood protection certificate information with respect
to the one or more rules and at least one corrective action associated with the at least one
deficiency.
[0006]       In another aspect, the present invention provides a system including one or more
computers, and a computer-readable medium coupled to the one or more computers having
instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the
one or more computers to perform operations including identifying flood protection certificate
information associated with a property, wherein identifying the flood protection certificate
information includes automatically recognizing the flood protection certificate information
based on one or more naming conventions associated with flood protection policies,
identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate information,
automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate information
based on the one or more rules, establishing an electronic communication session with an
electronic device associated with the property, and transmitting, through the electronic
communication session and to the electronic device associated with the property, information

                                                  3
indicating at least one deficiency of the flood protection certificate information with respect
to the one or more rules and at least one corrective action associated with the at least one
deficiency.
[0007]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a computer storage medium
encoded with a computer program, the computer program including instructions that when
executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform
operations including identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a
property,   wherein     identifying the    flood   protection   certificate information  includes
automatically recognizing the flood protection certificate information based on one or more
naming conventions associated with flood protection policies, identifying one or more rules
related to the flood protection certificate information, automatically determining a compliance
status of the flood protection certificate information based on the one or more rules,
establishing an electronic communication session with an electronic device associated with
the property, and transmitting, through the electronic communication session and to the
electronic device associated with the property, information indicating at least one deficiency
of the flood protection certificate information with respect to the one or more rules and at
least one corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency.
[0008]       In some implementations, identifying the flood protection certificate information
includes obtaining information related to at least one of a flood zone, a flood protection policy
period, a flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible, or a lapse in flood protection
coverage.
[0009]       In some implementations, identifying the flood protection certificate information
includes automatically recognizing the flood protection certificate information based on one
or more naming conventions associated with flood protection policies.
[0010]       In some implementations, obtaining one or more rules that are relevant to the
flood protection certificate information includes retrieving, from one or more remote computer
servers, information related to a government law or a government regulation related to the
flood protection certificate information.

                                                4
[0011]       In some implementations, determining a compliance status of the flood protection
certificate information with the one or more rules includes determining, based on the
information related to the government law or government regulation, flood hazard data that
indicates one or more flood risk zones. The method further includes comparing a geographic
location of the property with the one or more flood risk zones, and determining a designated
flood protection premium or a designated flood protection rate for the property based on
comparing a geographic location of the property with the flood risk zones. The method
further includes determining whether the flood protection certificate information complies with
the designated flood protection premium or the designated flood protection rate for the
property.
[0012]       In some implementations, determining a compliance status of the flood protection
certificate information with the one or more rules includes determining whether the property
complies with a requirement to purchase flood protection as a result of receiving flood-related
financial assistance from a federal government.
[0013]       In some implementations, determining a compliance status of the flood protection
certificate information with the one or more rules includes automatically identifying one or
more parameters of the flood protection certificate information; and determining whether the
one or more parameters of the flood protection certificate information satisfies the one or
more rules.
[0014]       In some implementations, automatically identifying one or more parameters of the
flood protection certificate information includes automatically determining, based on the flood
protection certificate information for the property, one or more parameters related to a flood
zone, a flood protection policy period, a flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible,
or a lapse in flood protection coverage.
[0015]       In some implementations, determining a compliance status of the flood protection
certificate information with the one or more rules includes determining that the property is
not associated with a valid flood protection certificate.

                                                5
[0016]      In some implementations, the method further includes displaying, on a display of
a mobile electronic device, a graphical user interface displaying information regarding a
progress of determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate information
with the one or more rules.
[0017]      In some implementations, providing the result of determining the compliance
status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules includes
transforming a template letter to indicate the result of determining the compliance status of
the flood protection      certificate information; and automatically generating        a postal
transmission of the transformed template letter indicating the result of determining the
compliance status of the flood protection certificate information, wherein the postal
transmission is addressed to contact information associated with the property.
[0018]      In some implementations, providing the result of determining the compliance
status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules includes
transmitting, over an electronic network to an electronic device associated with the property,
the result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate information
with the one or more rules.
[0019]      In some implementations, providing the result of determining the compliance
status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules includes
transmitting information indicating at least one deficiency of the flood protection certificate
information with respect to the one or more rules and at least one corrective action
associated with the at least one deficiency.
[0020]      In some implementations, the method further includes obtaining updated flood
protection certificate information associated with the property; determining that the updated
flood protection certificate information does not comply with the one or more rules; and based
on determining that the updated flood protection certificate information does not comply with
the one or more rules, generating a force-placed flood protection certificate for the property.
[0021]      In some implementations, generating a force-placed flood protection certificate
for the property includes determining, based on the one or more rules, a flood protection

                                                 6
premium for the property; and generating a flood protection certificate for the property based
on the flood protection premium.
[0022]       In some implementations, the method further includes determining a cancellation
of the force-placed flood protection certificate; and generating a reimbursement for the flood
protection premium associated with the force-placed flood protection certificate.
[0023]       In some implementations, the method further includes generating, for a plurality
of properties, a prioritized ordering of analyzing flood protection certificate information for the
plurality of properties.
[0024]       In some implementations, generating the prioritized ordering includes performing
predictive analytics that identifies one or more high-risk properties from among the plurality
of properties.
[0025]      All or part of the features described throughout this application can be
implemented as a computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the
computer program including instructions that are executable by one or more processors. All
or part of the features described throughout this application can be implemented as an
apparatus, method, or electronic system that can include one or more processing devices
and memory to store executable instructions to implement the stated functions.
[0026]      The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying
drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description
and drawings, and from the claims.

                                                 7
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0027]     FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a system that can execute
implementations of the present disclosure;
[0028]     FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an example of components of a system that
automatically reviews, tracks, and enables compliance;
[0029]     FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating an example of automatically reviewing, tracking,
and enabling compliance;
[0030]     FIG. 4 is a flow chart illustrating an example of automatically reviewing, tracking,
and enabling compliance in the context of flood protection policies;
[0031]     FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of an input/output
relationship in a system that automatically reviews, tracks, and enables compliance in the
context of flood protection policies;
[0032]     FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of a framework and
capabilities of a system that automatically reviews, tracks, and enables compliance in the
context of flood protection policies;
[0033]     FIGS. 7 to 9 are examples of graphical user interfaces (GUIs) that may be used
by a system that automatically reviews, tracks, and enables compliance in the context of
flood protection policies;
[0034]     FIGS. 10 to 12 are flow charts illustrating examples of automatically reviewing,
tracking, and enabling compliance in the context of flood protection policies; and
[0035]     FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram of an example of a computer system that can be
used for the operations described in association with the techniques described herein.
[0036]     In the following text, a detailed description of examples will be given with reference
to the drawings. It should be understood that various modifications to the examples may be

                                            8
made. In particular, elements of one example may be combined and used in other examples
to form new examples. Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.

                                                9
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0037]      Techniques according to the present disclosure automatically review, track, and
enable compliance with respect to one or more rules or regulations. The techniques may be
implemented in systems, methods, computer-readable media, or other forms as described
herein. For example, a system according to the present disclosure may automatically review
one or more documents associated with an entity and determine whether the documents
comply with a set of rules or regulations.       If the system detects non-compliance in the
documents, then the system may perform one or more remedial actions to enable
compliance, such as alerting one or more entities associated with the documents, for
example by sending instructions on how to comply with the rules and regulations, and
monitoring and reviewing corrections to the documents.          In some implementations, if the
entity associated with the non-compliant document fails to comply with the rules and
regulations, then the system may take further remedial actions, such as automatically
generating, on behalf of the entity, a policy that is compliant with the rules and regulations.
[0038]      As an example, a document may be related to protection of a property against loss
or damages. The property may be a piece of land, a vehicle, a non-physical property, or
other types of property that can be protected against loss or damage. The document may
include a protection certificate that reflects specific details regarding the type and scope of
protection for the property. In some cases, an entity may be required to possess a particular
type of protection certificate, for example, according to governmental or private rules and
regulations.
[0039]      As a specific example, a protection certificate may be a flood protection certificate
that protects, or insures, a property against water damage caused by floods. An entity, such
as a homeowner or business, may be required to possess a particular type of flood protection
certificate for various reasons.     This requirement may be imposed, for example, by a
governmental or private institution.     For example, a homeowner who obtains a loan, or
mortgage, from a private mortgage institution to purchase a piece of land in a high-risk
flooding area may be required by the private mortgage institution to obtain a flood protection
certificate. As another example, a business owner who receives flood-related financial

                                               10
assistance from a governmental institution may be required to obtain a flood protection
certificate for the business.
[0040]      However, an institution that imposes a requirement on a homeowner or business
to possess a flood protection certificate may face difficulties in verifying and/or enforcing
compliance.      Non-compliance may be caused by various reasons.             For example, the
homeowner or business may possess an incomplete flood protection certificate, or may
possess a flood protection certificate that has not been updated to reflect changes in the law,
or may not possess a flood protection certificate at all. In such cases, a regulating institution,
which may deal with a large number of homeowners or businesses, may face challenges not
only in determining whether a particular flood protection certificate is fully compliant with
potentially complex laws and regulations, but also in ensuring that any deficiencies in a non
compliant certificate are promptly corrected.
[0041]      Systems and techniques according to the present disclosure automatically review
and track compliance of a flood protection certificate with respect to a set of rules and
regulations, and automatically enable remedial actions to correct deficiencies in the flood
protection certificate. As such, the system may help mitigate the challenges described above
by improving the efficiency and turnaround time of processing a flood insurance certificate,
as well as by creating controls that enable an entity to more easily comply with the rules and
regulations.
[0042]      As an example, the system may monitor and enable compliance of flood insurance
certificates with respect to a governmental law, such as the Biggert Waters Flood Act. The
system may thus help mitigate violations and subsequent penalties of the governmental law.
In some cases, the system may automatically generate, as result of the compliance review
and tracking, audit information that may be used by governmental entities, such as Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) conducting audits of a flood insurance certificate.
[0043]      The system may perform one or more types of analysis to review and track
compliance. In some implementations, an insurance tracking and compliance (ITAC) system
may be modified to include additional controls identified through flood intervention control.

                                                11
The system may generate automated flood recon reports developed in the ITAC system to
monitor the status of a flood protection certificate at different stages of compliance review.
[0044]      As such, the system may enable a client, such as a mortgage-issuing institution,
to more efficiently and more accurately conduct and track compliance reviews of flood
protection certificates, such as those held by borrowers of mortgages. The system may
access data related to appropriate laws, rules, and/or regulations to automatically analyze
compliance of the borrower's flood protection certificate. The system may automatically
report the findings of the analysis to the client, such as the mortgage-issuing institution. In
some implementations, the system may utilize a mobile-based platform to provide results
and real-time tracking of the compliance review to mobiles devices of the client.
[0045]      In some cases, if an entity, such as a mortgage borrower, consistently fails to
comply or fails to take action to correct deficiencies in a flood protection certificate, then the
system may automatically perform intervention controls to ensure compliance. For example,
the system may generate, or "force-place," a compliant flood protection certificate for the
non-compliant borrower and charge the borrower with a premium for the new flood protection
certificate. As such, the system may help ensure that federal laws and/or private regulations
are not violated, potentially resulting in savings for the client, such as the mortgage-issuing
institution. In some cases, the system may determine that a forced-placed flood protection
certificate was incorrectly generated, and in such scenarios, the system may automatically
generate a force-place cancellation report to enable efficient and speedy reimbursement of
the force-placed premium back to the borrower.
[0046]      FIG. 1 depicts an example system 100 in which implementations of the present
disclosure may be implemented. In the example system 100 of FIG. 1, client devices 102
and 104, operated by users 106 and 108, respectively, may execute a mobile compliance
review, tracking, and enablement platform.         For example, users 108 and 108 may be
employees of a governmental institution, a mortgage-issuing institution, or other entity that
attempts to verify compliance of a flood protection certificate.
[0047]      The system may review and track compliance of flood protection certificates and
provide instructions to associated agents, such as borrowers of mortgages, regarding results

                                               12
of the review and, in some cases, recommended actions to take in order to achieve
compliance. For example, in the example of FIG. 1, the system may transmit results of the
compliance review and compliance instructions to one or more electronic devices, such as
electronic device 110 operated by user 112. The system may utilize any suitable form of
communication to transmit the information to the user 112, such as a phone call, email, text
message, etc. In some cases, the system may transmit the information to the user 112 by
non-electronic techniques, such as by postal mail.
[0048]     In some implementations, there may additionally be one or more remote systems,
such as remote system 114, including a computer server, such as computer server 116 in
FIG. 1. An the remote system 114 may be, for example, a governmental system that stores
various laws, rules, and regulations associated with determining compliance of a flood
protection certificate. In some implementations, the remote system 114 may be operated by
a private institution, such as the mortgage-issuing institution, and may store one or more
rules or regulations that may be used to determine compliance of a borrower's flood
protection certificate. The remote system 114 may be implemented as one or more servers,
located at a central facility or distributed across diverse geographic locations, such as a
cloud-based storage system.
[0049]     In some implementations, the computing devices 102, 104, and/or 110 are
computing devices, such as laptop or desktop computers, smartphones, personal digital
assistants, wearable computers, portable media players, tablet computers, or other
appropriate computing devices that can be used to communicate with an electronic
communication network, such as electronic communication network 118 in FIG. 1. In
addition, one or more of the computing devices 102, 104, and/or 110 may perform client-side
operations, as discussed in further detail herein.
[0050]     In some implementations, the automated compliance review, tracking, and
enablement platform may be hosted by a system, such as host system 120 in FIG. 1. The
host system 120 may be physically located at a remote location, such as a central business
center or cloud server. In some implementations, the host system 120 may provide client
side information that is downloaded on web browsers or applications executed on the
computing devices 102, 104, and/or 110.

                                              13
[0051]     The host system 120 may include one or more servers, such as server 122, and
one or more storage devices, such as storage device 124, storing computer-readable
instructions. The server 122 may communicate, as needed, with the computing devices 102,
104, and/or 110 executing the automated compliance review, tracking, and enablement
platform. For example, in some implementations, the host system 120 may, in addition to
providing client-side software for download by the computing devices 102, 104, and/or 110,
additionally store server-side information that is used by the automated compliance review,
tracking, and enablement platform.       The host system 120 may communicate with the
computing devices 102, 104, and/or 110 by a communication medium, such as a
communication network 118.
[0052]     In some implementations, the network 118 is a public communication network,
such as, for example, the Internet, cellular data network, or a telephone network accessed
via dialup modems. The network 118 may also be a private communications network, such
as, for example, private LAN, leased lines. The network 118 may include one or more
networks.    The network(s) may provide for communications under various modes or
protocols, such as, for example, Wi-Fi. Global System for Mobile communication (GSM)
voice calls, Short Message Service (SMS), Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS), or
Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) messaging, Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA),
Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), Personal Digital Cellular (PDC), Wideband Code
Division Multiple Access (WCDMA), CDMA2000, General Packet Radio System (GPRS),
among others.      For example, the communication may occur through a radio-frequency
transceiver.    In addition, short-range communication       may occur, such as using a
BLUETOOTH, Near Field Communications (NFC), or other such transceiver.
[0053]     FIG. 2 depicts an example of components of a system 200 that performs
automated compliance review, tracking, and enablement.         In the example of FIG. 2, the
system 200 includes a host system 120. The host system 120 may include a flood protection
tracking and compliance device 202. The flood protection tracking and compliance device
202 may include, or communicate with, one or more processors and one or more storage
devices that are configured to implement automated flood protection tracking and
compliance review. For example, the flood protection tracking and compliance device 202

                                              14
may utilize one or more memory modules 204 to store data related to flood protection
tracking and compliance, or other information. The flood protection tracking and compliance
device 202 may also receive inputs from users, such as users 106, 108, 112, or other users.
For example, the flood protection tracking and compliance device 202 may use one or more
input/output devices 206 to communicate information with other devices, such as client
device 102, the agent device 106, and the remote server 116.
[0054]     The flood protection tracking and compliance device 202 may be a module that is
added to a general purpose computer to create a modified computer that achieves the
functionality described.     In some implementations, the flood protection tracking and
compliance device 202 includes specialized hardware that is designed to control operations
of other components of the flood protection tracking and compliance system 200. The flood
protection tracking and compliance device 202 may interact with one or more other
specialized components (which may include specialized hardware) to achieve the
functionality described.
[0055]      FIG. 3 depicts an example of a process of end to end compliance and tracking of
property protection policies. The example process 300 in FIG. 3 illustrates an insurance
tracking and compliance (ITAC) system that may be used as a tracking tool for commercial
mortgage insurance. The ITAC system may have built in tracking and reporting for workflow,
quality and productivity. The ITAC system may be built on any suitable server technology
and may be accessible, for example, online through a browser.
[0056]      In the example of FIG. 3, the ITAC system may be used to track insurance
compliance status, perform invoice processing, and/or perform lender force placements for
different kinds of mortgage insurances, such as, general property insurance (theft, fire, etc.),
mortgage insurance, flood insurance, homeowner insurance, and/or hazard insurance. In
some cases, the ITAC system may be implemented as a Web based application. Such
scenarios may offer smaller initial set-up effort and easy access for clients.        In some
implementations, the system may provide integrated email capability that helps reducing the
cycle time for correspondence. The easily customizable web interface along with robust
reporting capabilities provided by the ITAC system may facilitate lenders to monitor the
status of property insurance for various mortgagees.

                                                15
[0057]     The ITAC workflow may provide a real time status tracking of each loan along with
imaging repository capabilities. The ITAC system may be capable of performing data
validation and create workflows based on the priority of the loans for insurance compliance
audit.    The system may use integrated pre-defined letters templates to send the
correspondence to the borrowers during pre- and post-insurance expiration campaigns. The
ITAC system may support insurance invoice processing to extend the insurance coverage.
In some cases, the ITAC system may be enable configuration with a lender based on
portfolio requirements to conduct insurance status tracking audits.
[0058]     The ITAC system may also have built-in analytics to enable the lender to initiate
force placements to keep the properties insured and to safe guard the interest of the lender.
In some cases, the system may use a built-in data reconciliation engine that provides timely
reporting at various lender levels and portfolio levels with a status of collaterals whose
insurance is covered, expired, uncovered, as well as cover outstanding exceptions and
lender force placements. The system may also be capable of performing portfolio level
analytics and recommend institutions or lenders for group insurance.
[0059]     The example process of insurance tracking and compliance in FIG. 3 includes two
phases of processing. One phase involved tracking information from insurance certificates
into the ITAC application, and the second phase involves reviewing the tracked information
against one or more rules or regulations and detecting any non-compliance.
[0060]      In the first phase, a client such as a mortgage-issuing institutions receives a
prefunding review for property protection and creates a loan and asset level entry (302). The
ITAC system receives the feed from the client and creates an entry (304). The ITAC system
then receives the protection policy associated with the loan from the client (306).
[0061]      In the second phase, the ITAC system performs analytics to perform compliance
review of the protection policy (308). The ITAC system identifies any non-compliance in the
protection policy (310) and automatically generates alerts, such as renewal reminders and/or
non-compliance letters, which are sent to the agent or borrower of the loan (314). The agent
or borrower of the loan may then correct the protection policy based on the letters send the
correct protection policy to the lender (316). The client may then view and track the collateral

                                                 16
level details of the protection policy (318) and resolve the end customer query (320). The
ITAC system then performs one or more actions to rectify non-compliance. For example,
the ITAC system may force-place a protection policy for a loan if the agent or borrower fails
to rectify non-compliance.
[0062]      Further details of the compliance review process in the specific context of flood
protection policies are presented next.
[0063]      FIG. 4 depicts an example of details of a compliance review of a flood protection
certificate. In the example process 400 of FIG. 4, the flood insurance module tracks the
progress of reviewing the compliance of flood protection certificates by using a checklist and
checkpoints that monitor governmental parameters and guidelines, such as Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regulations.
[0064]      The ITAC system receives flood protection certificates for analysis (e.g., as in
operation 306 of FIG. 3). The ITAC system automatically recognizes the flood protection
certificates, for example by using a naming convention for flood protection policies (402).
The ITAC system then performs a first level of tracking (404) and processes the flood
protection certificates (406). The flood insurance module creates a checklist (408) and
identifies parameters that are relevant to determining compliance of the flood protection
certificates (410).
[0065]      The flood insurance module checks the parameters for compliance with the FEMA
regulations (412), identifies any non-compliant items and notifies the borrower of the loan
about the non-compliant items in the form of letters (414). The letters may also recommend
one or more actions to remedy the deficiencies. The ITAC system then automatically sends
the reminder letters to the borrowers until the noted deficiencies are resolved (416). Any
non-compliant items that remain and that are not resolved by the borrower may be force
placed by the flood module (418).
[0066]      FIG. 5 is a schematic illustration of an example of a relationship between the flood
insurance module and other modules and systems in the overall compliance and review
system.     In the example relationship 500 of FIG. 5, an ITAC Certificate Module 502

                                                17
recognizes and pushes flood protection certificates into a Flood Module 504 to analyze
compliance with one or more rules related to flood coverage.
[0067]      The Flood Module 504 processes the flood protection certificates and outputs non
compliance letters for any items that are not in compliance with the rules and regulations.
The Flood Module 504 may also generate reports and letters regarding the detected non
compliant items in the flood protection certificates.
[0068]      The Flood Module 504 may obtain the rules and regulations, for example, from an
external server, such as FEMA server 506. In this example, the Flood Module 504 monitors
the FEMA website on a daily basis, and pulls relevant data from the Flood Module 504 and
ITAC Module 502 based on disasters declared by FEMA.
[0069]      FIG. 6 depicts an example of a framework and capabilities of a system that tracks
compliance of a flood protection certificate. In the example framework 600 of FIG. 6, an
ITAC system is built on an Architecture for Dynamic Allocation and Performance Tracking
(ADAPT) framework. The ADAPT framework may provide a flexible platform that enables
automated tracking of performance of various types of systems and processes. The ITAC
system may take various types of information as input, such as insurance documents, loan
data, escrow information, investor/lender requirements, and/or agent ratings.       The ITAC
system may perform different analytics to perform compliance review of the insurance
documents, such as data integration, data validation, prioritization, and/or workflow
processing.    In doing so, the ITAC system may be modified to handle flood protection
certificates.  For example, the ITAC system may be modified with capabilities such as
handling invoice processing, commercial and multi-family products, insurance waivers,
insurance and flood compliance, force placements, email capabilities, image repository,
letter generation, real-time status checking, and/or electronic recon and reporting of
compliance review results.
[0070]      FIGS. 7 to 9 depict examples of graphical user interfaces (GUls) that may be used
for performing compliance review and tracking.

                                                 18
[0071]      FIG. 7 depicts an example of a user input screen that may be provided by a flood
module to enable a user to enter compliance results for one or more parameters of a flood
protection certificate. In the example interface 700 of FIG. 7, various parameters may be
available to analyze compliance of the flood protection certificate, such as a flood zone, a
flood protection policy period, a flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible, or a lapse
in flood protection coverage. Other parameters may include a carrier rating, a deductible,
and/or other parameters related to analyzing compliance of the flood protection certificate
with respect to one or more rules.
[0072]      FIG. 8 depicts an example of a user output screen that indicates compliance of
one or more parameters of a flood protection certificate. In the example output 800 of FIG.
8, the flood module outputs the evaluation results of different parameters and comments
from the reviewers.      The output of the flood module may be, for example, a HyperText
Markup Language (HTML) document that is displayed on a computer screen, such as a
mobile device of an employee of a mortgage issuer, or an agent/borrower.
[0073]      FIG. 9 depicts an example of a user input screen for generating a force-placed
flood protection certificate. The flood module may generate a force-placed flood protection
certificate, for example, if a borrower consistently fails to remedy deficiencies to comply with
flood insurance rules or regulations. In some cases, the system may charge the borrower a
premium associated with the force-placed flood protection certificate. In the example input
900 of FIG. 9, the flood module may prompt a user to input various information regarding the
force-placed flood protection certificate, such as a term of the policy and identification
information for the loan, such as a loan number, associated with the flood protection. Based
on the inputs, the flood module may automatically generate a flood protection certificate for
the identified loan that complies with the applicable flood-insurance rules and regulations.
[0074]      FIGS. 10 to 12 are flow charts depicting examples of performing automated
compliance review and tracking of flood protection certificates.
[0075]      FIG. 10 depicts an example process 1000 of reviewing, tracking, and enabling
compliance. In some implementations, the system obtains, by the one or more processors
in conjunction with an electronic communications device, a flood protection certificate

                                               19
information associated with a property (1002).        The system stores the flood protection
certificate information in one or more computer memory devices (1004) and obtains one or
more rules that are relevant to the flood protection certificate information (1006). The system
then automatically determines a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
information with the one or more rules (1008). The system then transmits, by an electronic
communication device and based on contact information associated with the property, a
result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with
the one or more rules (1010).
[0076]      In some implementations, obtaining the flood protection certificate information
includes obtaining information related to at least one of a flood zone, a flood protection policy
period, a flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible, or a lapse in flood protection
coverage.     Obtaining the flood protection certificate information may include performing
automated recognition of the flood protection certificate information based on one or more
naming conventions associated with flood protection policies. In some cases, obtaining one
or more rules that are relevant to the flood protection certificate information involves
connecting to one or more remote computer servers and obtaining, from the one or more
remote computer servers, information related to a government law or a government
regulation relevant to the flood protection certificate information.
[0077]      Determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with
the one or more rules may be performed in a number of ways. For example, the system may
use information related to a government law or government regulation, such as flood hazard
data that indicates flood risk zones, and compare a geographic location of the property with
the flood risk zones. In some cases, the system may determine a designated flood protection
premium or a designated flood protection rate for the property based on comparing a
geographic location of the property with the flood risk zones. Compliance may then be
determined by analyzing whether the flood protection certificate information complies with
the designated flood protection premium or the designated flood protection rate for the
property.
[0078]      In some cases, determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
information with the one or more rules involves determining whether the property complies

                                                 20
with a requirement to purchase flood protection as a result of receiving flood-related financial
assistance from a federal government.
[0079]      In some examples, determining a compliance status of the flood protection
certificate information with the rules involves automatically identifying relevant parameters of
the flood protection certificate information, and determining whether the parameters satisfy
the rules. In such cases, automatically identifying one or more parameters of the flood
protection certificate information may involve automatically determining, based on the flood
protection certificate information for the property, parameters related to a flood zone, a flood
protection policy period, a flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible, or a lapse in
flood protection coverage.
[0080]      In some cases, the system may determine that the property is not associated with
a valid flood protection certificate at all and may thus determine non-compliance.
[0081]      The system may display, on a display of a mobile electronic device, a graphical
user interface displaying information regarding a progress of determining a compliance
status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules. In some
implementations, the system may obtain a template letter from an electronic storage device,
process the template letter to indicate the result of determining the compliance status of the
flood protection certificate, and automatically generate a postal transmission of the
processed template letter to the contact information associated with the property, indicating
the result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate.
[0082]      In some implementations, the system may establish an electronic communication
session with an electronic device associated with the property, and transmit, through the
electronic communication session and to the electronic device associated with the property,
the result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate information
with the one or more rules.
[0083]      As another example, the system may transmit information indicating at least one
deficiency of the flood protection certificate information with respect to the one or more rules
and at least one action that would satisfy the at least one deficiency.

                                                 21
[0084]      The system may also obtain updated flood protection certificate information
associated with the property and determine that the updated flood protection certificate
information does not comply with the one or more rules. The system may then generate a
force-placed flood protection certificate for the property. The system may generate the force
placed flood protection certificate for the property by determining a flood protection premium
for the property and generate a flood protection certificate for the property based on the flood
protection premium.       If the system later determines to cancel the force-placed flood
protection certificate, the system may automatically generate a reimbursement for the flood
protection premium associated with the force-placed flood protection certificate.
[0085]      The system may, in some cases, analyze compliance for a plurality of properties,
and in doing so, establish a prioritized ordering of analyzing flood protection certificate
information for the plurality of properties. The system may determine the prioritized ordering
by, for example, performing predictive analytics that identifies one or more high-risk
properties from among the plurality of properties, and analyzing those high-risk properties
with higher priority.
[0086]      FIG. 11 depicts another example of flood insurance tracking and compliance. In
the example process 1100 of FIG. 11, the ITAC system receives a feed from a client
regarding flood insurance policies associated with one or more mortgage loans (1102). The
ITAC system automatically creates loan and collateral level information for each property
associated with the mortgage loan, such as a building (1104). The ITAC system extracts
data from the received flood certificates (1106), tracks the extracted information (1108), and
compares the tracked information with one or more rules or requirements associated with
the loan (1110). If the ITAC system determines (in 1112) that the flood certificate complies
with the requirements, then the process ends (1114), and otherwise the ITAC system
indicates, such as by raising exceptions, the non-compliant items (1116). Further details of
the compliance review, as indicated by 1118, in the context of flood insurance module are
presented in FIG. 12.
[0087]      Based on the non-compliant items detected in operation 1116, the ITAC system
automatically generates the non-compliance letter (1120) and sends the non-compliance
letters to the agent/borrower, including recommended actions to rectify the non-compliance

                                                 22
(1122). The agent/borrower may revise and send an updated flood protection certificate
(1124). If the agent/borrower continues to fail to rectify the non-compliance, then the ITAC
system continues to send follow-up letters, which may increase in frequency, until the non
compliance is cured by the agent/borrower (1126).
[0088]     After a sufficient number of repeated follow-up letters, the ITAC system may
generate a force-placed flood protection certificate for the agent/borrower (1128), and the
force-placed certificate may be lender-placed to protect the lender's interests (1130).
[0089]     FIG. 12 depicts further details of automatically tracking and reviewing compliance
in the context of a flood insurance module. In the example process 1200 of FIG. 12, the
flood insurance module performs compliance review on flood certificates that it receives
(1204). The flood module automatically extracts data from the received certificates along
with applicable rules or requirements (1206) and performs quality checks of the data with
respect to the requirements (1208). In some cases, a processor may edit and modify the
extracted data to ensure that the data is correct (1210) and the flood module may additionally
check certain critical fields to ensure that the data is accurate (1212). The flood module may
enable generation of a non-compliance letter to indicate any non-compliant items that the
module detected in the certificates (1214), and send the letter to the agent/borrower (1216).
[0090]     FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram of an example of a computer system that can be
used for the operations described in association with the techniques described herein.
[0091]     The system 1300 includes a processor 1310, a memory 1320, a storage device
1330, and an input/output device 1340. Each of the components 1310, 1320, 1330, and
1340 are interconnected using a system bus 1350.             The processor 1310 is capable of
processing instructions for execution within the system 1300. In one implementation, the
processor 1310 is a single-threaded processor. In another implementation, the processor
1310 is a multi-threaded processor.           The processor 1310 is capable of processing
instructions stored in the memory 1320 or on the storage device 1330 to display graphical
information for a user interface on the input/output device 1340.

                                               23
[0092]      The memory 1320 stores information within the system 1300.                 In one
implementation, the memory 1320 is a computer-readable medium. In one implementation,
the memory 1320 is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation, the memory 1320 is
a non-volatile memory unit. The processor 1310 and the memory 1320 may perform various
types of data manipulation.
[0093]      The storage device 1330 is capable of providing mass storage for the system
1300. In one implementation, the storage device 1330 is a computer-readable medium. In
various different implementations, the storage device 1330 may be a floppy disk device, a
hard disk device, an optical disk device, or a tape device. The storage device 1330 may
store various types of data associated with the techniques described herein.
[0094]      The input/output device 1340 provides input/output operations for the system
1300.     In one implementation, the input/output device 1340 includes a keyboard and/or
pointing device. In another implementation, the input/output device 1340 includes a display
unit for displaying graphical user interfaces. The input/output device 1340 may be used to
perform data exchange with other devices.
[0095]      The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in
computer hardware, firmware, software, or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be
implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier,
e.g., in a machine-readable storage device, for execution by a programmable processor; and
method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of
instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data
and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one
or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at
least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to
transmit data and instructions to, a data storage system, at least one input device, and at
least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used, directly
or indirectly, in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A
computer program can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled
or interpreted languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone

                                              24
program or as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit for use in a computing
environment.
[0096]     Processors for the execution of a program of instructions include, by way of
example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and the sole processor or one
of multiple processors of any kind of computer.         Generally, a processor will receive
instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The
elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories
for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively
coupled to communicate with, one or more mass storage devices for storing data files; such
devices include magnetic disks, such as internal hard disks and removable disks; magneto
optical disks; and optical disks. Storage devices for tangibly embodying computer program
instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, including by way of example
semiconductor memory devices, such as EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices;
magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and
CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by,
or incorporated in, ASICs (application-specific integrated circuits).
[0097]     To provide for interaction with a user, the features can be implemented on a
computer having a display device such as a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal
display) monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device
such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.
[0098]     The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back-end
component, such as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, such as an
application server or an Internet server, or that includes a front-end component, such as a
client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser, or any combination
of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital
data communication such as a communication network.             Examples of communication
networks include, e.g., a LAN, a WAN, and the computers and networks forming the Internet.
[0099]     The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are
generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network, such as the

                                               25
described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs
running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other.
[00100]    A number of implementations have been described.             Nevertheless, it will be
understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and
scope of the disclosure. Accordingly, other implementations are within the scope of the
following claims.
[00101]    While this specification contains many specifics, these should not be construed as
limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed, but rather as
descriptions of features specific to particular implementations. Certain features that are
described in this specification in the context of separate implementations may also be
provided in combination in a single implementation. Conversely, various features that are
described in the context of a single implementation may also be provided in multiple
implementations separately or in any sub-combination. Moreover, although features may be
described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or
more features from a claimed combination may in some cases be excised from the
combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub-combination or variation
of a sub-combination.
[00102]    Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order, this
should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular
order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve
desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be
advantageous.       Moreover, the separation of various system components in the
implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in
all implementations, and it should be understood that the described program components
and systems may generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged
into multiple software products.
[00103]    Thus, particular implementations have been described.         Other implementations
are within the scope of the following claims. For example, the actions recited in the claims
may be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

                                                26
[00104]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00105]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should note be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                  27
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A computer-implemented method executed by one or more processors, the method
including:
        identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property, wherein
identifying the flood protection certificate information includes automatically recognizing the
flood protection certificate information based on one or more naming conventions associated
with flood protection policies;
        identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate information;
automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate information
based on the one or more rules;
        establishing an electronic communication           session with an electronic device
associated with the property; and
        transmitting, through the electronic communication session and to the electronic
        device associated with the property, information indicating at least one deficiency of
        the flood protection certificate information with respect to the one or more rules and
        at least one corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency.
2.      A method according to claim 1, wherein identifying the flood protection certificate
information further includes obtaining information related to at least one of a flood zone, a
flood protection policy period, a flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible, or a lapse
in flood protection coverage.
3.      A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein obtaining one or more rules
that are relevant to the flood protection certificate information includes:
        retrieving, from one or more remote computer servers, information related to a
government law or a government regulation related to the flood protection certificate
information.
4.      A method according to claim 3, wherein determining a compliance status of the flood
protection certificate information with the one or more rules includes:

                                               28
        determining, based on the information related to the government law or government
regulation, flood hazard data that indicates one or more flood risk zones;
        comparing a geographic location of the property with the one or more flood risk zones;
        determining a designated flood protection premium or a designated flood protection
rate for the property based on comparing a geographic location of the property with the flood
risk zones; and
        determining whether the flood protection certificate information complies with the
designated flood protection premium or the designated flood protection rate for the property.
5.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining a
compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules
includes:
        determining whether the property complies with a requirement to purchase flood
protection as a result of receiving flood-related financial assistance from a federal
government.
6.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining a
compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules
includes:
        automatically identifying one or more parameters of the flood protection certificate
information; and
        determining whether the one or more parameters of the flood protection certificate
information satisfies the one or more rules.
7.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein automatically
identifying one or more parameters of the flood protection certificate information includes:
        automatically determining, based on the flood protection certificate information for the
property, one or more parameters related to a flood zone, a flood protection policy period, a
flood protection limit, a flood protection deductible, or a lapse in flood protection coverage.

                                                29
8.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining a
compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with the one or more rules
includes:
       determining that the property is not associated with a valid flood protection certificate.
9.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including displaying,
on a display of a mobile electronic device, a graphical user interface displaying information
regarding a progress of determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
information with the one or more rules.
10.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein providing the result
of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with the
one or more rules includes:
       transforming a template letter to indicate the result of determining the compliance
status of the flood protection certificate information; and
       automatically generating a postal transmission of the transformed template letter
indicating the result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate
information, wherein the postal transmission is addressed to contact information associated
with the property.
11.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein providing the result
of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate information with the
one or more rules includes:
       transmitting, over an electronic network to an electronic device associated with the
property, the result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection certificate
information with the one or more rules.
12.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
       obtaining updated flood protection certificate information associated with the property;
       determining that the updated flood protection certificate information does not comply
with the one or more rules; and

                                                30
        based on determining that the updated flood protection certificate information does
not comply with the one or more rules, generating a force-placed flood protection certificate
for the property.
13.     A method according to claim 12, wherein generating a force-placed flood protection
certificate for the property includes:
        determining, based on the one or more rules, a flood protection premium for the
property; and
        generating a flood protection certificate for the property based on the flood protection
premium.
14.     A method according to claim 13, further including:
        determining a cancellation of the force-placed flood protection certificate; and
        generating a reimbursement for the flood protection premium associated with the
force-placed flood protection certificate.
15.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including generating,
for a plurality of properties, a prioritized ordering of analyzing flood protection certificate
information for the plurality of properties.
16.     A method according to claim 17, wherein generating the prioritized ordering includes
performing predictive analytics that identifies one or more high-risk properties from among
the plurality of properties.
17.     A system including:
        one or more computers; and
        a computer-readable medium coupled to the one or more computers having
instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the
one or more computers to perform operations including:
                identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property,
        wherein identifying the flood protection certificate information includes automatically

                                                31
      recognizing the flood protection certificate information based on one or more naming
      conventions associated with flood protection policies;
             identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate
      information;
      automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
      information based on the one or more rules;
             establishing an electronic communication session with an electronic device
      associated with the property; and
             transmitting, through the electronic communication session and to the
      electronic device associated with the property, information indicating at least one
      deficiency of the flood protection certificate information with respect to the one or more
      rules and at least one corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency.
18.   A computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the computer
program including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one
or more processors to perform operations including:
             identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property,
      wherein identifying the flood protection certificate information includes automatically
      recognizing the flood protection certificate information based on one or more naming
      conventions associated with flood protection policies;
             identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate
      information;
      automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
      information based on the one or more rules;
             establishing an electronic communication session with an electronic device
      associated with the property; and
             transmitting, through the electronic communication session and to the
      electronic device associated with the property, information indicating at least one
      deficiency of the flood protection certificate information with respect to the one or more
      rules and at least one corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency.

                                                  32
19.     A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the
electronic device performs the at least one corrective action associated with the at least one
deficiency, and wherein the at least one corrective action includes sending instructions to
one or more entities associated with the flood protection certificate regarding how to comply
with the one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate information.
20.     A system according to claim 17, wherein the electronic device performs the at least
one corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency, and wherein the at least
one corrective action includes sending instructions to one or more entities associated with
the flood protection certificate regarding how to comply with the one or more rules related to
the flood protection certificate information.
21.     A computer storage medium according to claim 18, wherein the electronic device
performs the at least one corrective action associated with the at least one deficiency, and
wherein the at least one corrective action includes sending instructions to one or more
entities associated with the flood protection certificate regarding how to comply with the one
or more rules related to the flood protection certificate information.
1a.     A computer-implemented method executed by one or more processors, the method
including:
        identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property;
        identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate information;
        automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
information based on the one or more rules; and
        providing a result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection
certificate information with the one or more rules.
2a.     A system including:
        one or more computers; and

                                                 33
       a computer-readable medium coupled to the one or more computers having
instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the
one or more computers to perform operations including:
               identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property;
               identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate
       information;
               automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
       information based on the one or more rules; and
               providing a result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection
       certificate information with the one or more rules.
3a.    A computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the computer
program including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one
or more processors to perform operations including:
               identifying flood protection certificate information associated with a property;
               identifying one or more rules related to the flood protection certificate
       information;
               automatically determining a compliance status of the flood protection certificate
       information based on the one or more rules; and
               providing a result of determining the compliance status of the flood protection
       certificate information with the one or more rules.

                                            <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                            112                   114
                                      110
  100
                                                        116
                      118
106       102
                                  Network                                   1/14
                                                              122
        108     104
                                            120
                                                                    124
                                   FIG. 1

                                                  <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                                           200
102
                      120
      Client Device
                            202                      204
110
                             Flood Protection
                               Tracking and
                                                           Memory
      Agent Device             Compliance
                                  Module
                                                                            2/14
                             206
116                                Input/Output
                                      Device
      Remote Server
                            FIG. 2

                                                                                      <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                                                                                                                      300
                                     End to End Compliance and Tracking
  Closing
   Team                                                                                 Analytics
  Prefunding
review done in
terms property
  protection        Client creates           ITAC receives      ITAC receives      ITAC performs the
                    loan & asset              the feed from     the protection     compliance review
                     level entry            client and create      policy
                                                the entry
                                                                                                                     Mobility
                                                                                                                                 3/14
                                                                                                           ITAC identifies any
                     Agent/Borrower sending Generated letters will be     ITAC automatically              non compliance items
                     the corrected protection sent to agent/borrower to generates the renewal                in the protection
                     policy to lender(Client) get the revised compliant reminder/non compliance                   policy
                                                        cert                   letters
    Mobility          Client portfolio            Client portfolio      ITAC performs review to rectify
                 managers/onshore team          managers/onshore                          - compliant
                                                                       non -compliance. Non                   Non compliant sent to
               member can view and track           analyst can            protection is Force placed             client for FP
                 collateral level details        resolve the end
                                                 customer query
                                                                            FIG. 3

                                                                                      <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                                                                           400
                          Flood protection certificate Compliance Review
         Imaging
           Team
  Imaging team
certificates to ITAC
  pushes all the
 for processing       ITAC automatically recognize ITAC helps to completes the ITAC processing application
                     the Flood certificates using the first level of tracking in   push the processed flood
                     naming convention and moves             application         certificates into Flood module
                            to processing
                                                                                                                              4/14
                               Each and every             Flood module helps to           Similar level of checklist
                          parameters have created       identify all the parameters     created for onshore analyst
                           in this module to avoid       are compliance based on        and this certificates will be
                              federal violation            federal requirement         moved to this queue for further
                                                                                                  review
                Identified non compliance       System automatically sends the           Non-compliant will
                  items will be notified to         reminder letters until it is                                  Non compliant
                                                                                         be foce placed still     Sent to client
               borrower in form of letters to        resolved based on the                                           for FP
                        rectify it                      campaign matrix                   It is active after
                                                             FIG. 4

                                                             <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                                      500
    Relationship Between Flood Module and
           Other Module/Applications
                                     Flood Module                        FEMA
 ITAC Certificate Module        Flood certificates will be      FEMA website will be
ITAC certificate processing    processed in flood module       monitored on a daily basis
module recognize and push          and outputs /non            and required datas will be   5/14
 the certificates into Flood     compliance letters and         pulled out of Flood and
 module which is related to     reports will be generated     other ITAC modules based
     flood coverage               from ITAC module            on the disasters declared by
                                                                        FEMA
                                   FIG. 5

                                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    FRAMEWORK & CAPABILITIES
                                        Data             Data
                                     Integration       Validation
  Insurance                          Prioritization    Workflow
  Documents
    Loan Data                                 Capabilities
                                       Invoice           Email
                                     Processing        Capabilities
                                                                                  6/14
   Escrow Info       ITAC           Commercial &          Image
                                     Multi Family       Repository
                                      Products
                            ADAPT
Investor / Lender                     Insurance           Letter
  Requirements                          Waiver          Generation
                                     Insurance &        Real Time
                                        Flood         Status Tracking
                                     Compliance
    Agent
    Rating                              Force           e-ReCon &
                                     Placements          Reporting      FIG. 6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 7
                               7/14
                             700

                        8/14             800
<removed-date>
              Flood Module HTML Output
<removed-apn>
                      FIG. 8

                                                                      <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
900
                FP Process-Addition
      Assignment Type:                     Exception Data  Limit less than required
      Loan Number:                         100475029
      Prop Seq/Bldg No:                    3
      Prop Add/Bldg Address:               16/18/20 ASSOCIATED LN,,WATSONVILLE,CA,950760000
      Coverage Type:                       NFIP - Flood
      Wind Included:                        Select
      Existing CERT Number:
      Effective Date of FP:                04/26/2012
      Expire date of FP:                   04/26/2013
      Term:                                12
      Last Edited by:                      archanaka
      Force Placed with:                    Willis                                                         9/14
          Coverage Requirement
      Loan:                   100475029             Borrower Name:
      Investor ID:                                       Coverage: --Select--
      Property Name:          Property 1          Property Address: 16/18/20 ASSOCIATED LN,,WATSONVILLE,
                                                                                 FIG 9

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
900
                                                10/14
      FIG 9 (continued)

<removed-date>
              1000                        11/14
                      Obtain, by an electronic communication device,     1002
                       flood insurance information associated with a
                                          property
<removed-apn>
                       Store the flood insurance information in one or   1004
                              more computer memory devices
                         Obtain one or more rules related to flood       1006
                                   insurance policies
                      Determine a compliance of the flood insurance      1008
                          information with the one or more rules
                        Display, on a computer display, information      1010
                      regarding the compliance of the flood insurance
                          information with the one or more rules
                     Generate a communication to a person associated     1012
                      with the property based on the compliance of the
                      flood insurance information with the one or more
                                            rules
                                         FIG. 10

                                                                                          <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                  Start
       Client sends feed to ITAC                                1100
            with Flood loans
  ITAC automatically creates loan &
collateral level set up for each building
  Datas are extracted from received                                             FIG. 11
 flood certificate from borrower/agent
   Extracted info tracked in ITAC
    Tracked info compared with loan
        document requirement                                                                                                  12/14
                  Does                      Yes
        tracked info comply with                                                                                    End
             requirement?
                No
       Exceptions raised against                     1.1
         each non compliance
   ITAC automatically generates the
        non compliance letter
 Letters sends to agent/borrower to
 rectify the non compliance issues
                                                  ITAC automatically sends              It will be moved to     Coverage will be
                                                   follow up letter based on      Forceplacement ITAC module    lender placed to
        Agent/Borrower sends                       frequency until it is cured       incase borrower fails to     protect lender
          revised certificate                          by agent/borrower           provide complaint coverage        interest

<removed-date>   1200                         Start
                                            1.1
<removed-apn>
                           Each and every certificates moves to
                          this module once data tracked in ITAC
                     Flood Module auto populates the data from received
                        certificate which has tracked in ITAC with req
                           Flood module automatically does the
                              quality check with requirement
                                Processor modifies the data
                                incase tracker info is correct
                       Module checks each and every critical fields
                         to ensure the tracked data is accurate
                            Module allows to generates the non
                                    compliance letter
                        Letters sends to agent/borrower to cure the
                                     con compliance
                                            End
                                       FIG. 12

                                  <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
1300
       1310
                                    1320
                                                          14/14
                 1350
          1330
                                           1340
                        FIG. 13

