ABSTRACT
A livestock feeder has a trough comprising a circular pan with a circumferential rim
and a central cone; a hopper comprising a hollow upper inverted frustrum of a cone
that converges to a hollow lower cylinder having a slotted lower edge configured to
overlie the central cone of the trough, wherein the hollow upper inverted frustrum
and the hollow lower cylinder are formed as a moulding in a plastic material; and a
roof comprising a hollow frustum of a cone having a lower edge configured to
overlie the upper inverted frustum of the hopper; a cylindrical skirt configured to
circumferentially surround the slotted lower edge of the lower cylinder of the
hopper, wherein the cylindrical skirt is adjustably vertically movable to selectively
cover and open the slotted lower edge to thereby adjust flow rate of feed from the
hopper to the trough; the cylindrical skirt is pivotally suspended from the lower
cylinder of the hopper by circumferentially spaced apart hangers each having an
upper end pivotally mounted to the lower cylinder, and a lower end pivotally
mounted to the cylindrical skirt; the cylindrical skirt is adjustably vertically movable
by tightening and loosening a plurality of threaded rods located around the
circumference of the cylindrical skirt upon which are passed through a plurality of
complementary eyebolts located upon the lower cylinder of the hopper and which
are secured by a pair of adjustable nuts placed on either side of each of the
eyebolts; and a deformation resilient hoop provided around an upper portion of the
lower cylinder of thehopper.

                        PORTABLE MODULAR LIVESTOCK FEEDER
  Field
  [0001] The present invention relates to portable modular livestock feeders.
  Background
  [0002] Livestock feeders generally comprise a feed hopper above a feeding trough.
  Livestock feed material, such as grain, flows under gravity from the hopper to the
  trough.
  [0003] Existing livestock feeders have various disadvantages. Most of them have
  unwieldy shapes and unitary metal constructions that are prone to rust and warping and
  are heavy and difficult to move. Many livestock feeders have internal structural frames
  and complicated feed flow arrangements between the hopper and trough that are easily
  blocked by differing feed materials under differing climatic conditions and humidities. In
  addition, existing livestock feeders typically need to be physically inspected to
  determine feed levels within the hopper.
  [0004] In this context, it is desirable to provide livestock feeders that address or at least
  partially ameliorate one or more of the problems discussed above.
  Summary
  [0005] According to the present invention, there is provided a livestock feeder,
  comprising:
)            a trough comprising a circular pan with a circumferential rim and a central
       cone; a hopper comprising a hollow upper inverted frustrum of a cone that
       converges to a hollow lower cylinder having a slotted lower edge configured to
       overlie the central cone of the trough, wherein the hollow upper inverted frustrum
       and the hollow lower cylinder are formed as a moulding in a plastic material; and
5            a roof comprising a hollow frustum of a cone having a lower edge configured to
       overlie the upper inverted frustum of the hopper;
             a cylindrical skirt configured to circumferentially surround the slotted lower
       edge of the lower cylinder of the hopper, wherein the cylindrical skirt is adjustably
      vertically movable to selectively cover and open the slotted lower edge to thereby

        adjust flow rate of feed from the hopper to the trough;
               the cylindrical skirt is pivotally suspended from the lower cylinder of the hopper
        by circumferentially spaced apart hangers each having an upper end pivotally
        mounted to the lower cylinder, and a lower end pivotally mounted to the cylindrical
        skirt;
               the cylindrical skirt is adjustably vertically movable by tightening and loosening
        a plurality of threaded rods located around the circumference of the cylindrical skirt
        upon which are passed through a plurality of complementary eyebolts located upon
       the lower cylinder of the hopper and which are secured by a pair of adjustable nuts
        placed on either side of each of the eyebolts;
               and a deformation resilient hoop provided around an upper portion of the lower
        cylinder of the hopper.
  [0006] The livestock feeder may further comprise an awning comprising a horizontal
  flattened ring configured to be arranged between the roof and the hopper to overlie the
  trough; and wherein two or more of the trough, hopper, roof, hoop, and awning are
  removably attachable together by releasable fasteners.
  [0007] In preferred embodiments one or both of the roof and the hopper are mouldings
  of a transparent or translucent plastic material so that, in use, a level of feed inside the
  hopper can be determined visually from a distance.
  [0008] In some embodiments the roof of the livestock feeder has an opening which is
  sealed by a movable circular lid and which is reinforced by a deformation resilient hoop
5 securely fitted within an upper circular edge of the frustum for providing rigidity to the
  roof.
  [0009] The livestock feeder may further comprise comprising a modular ground support
  frame that is removably attachable to the trough, hopper, hoop, or a combination
D thereof.
  [0010] Two or more of the trough, hopper, cylindrical skirt, hoop, roof, lid and awning
  may be plastic mouldings.
5 [0011] The cone of the trough may comprise spaced apart upper and lower walls,
  wherein the upper wall is resiliently deformable relative to the lower wall, so that in use

  deformation of the upper wall relative to the lower wall is indicative of feed level in the
  hopper.
  [0012] The livestock feeder may further comprise a feed level sensor configured to
  sense deformation of the upper wall relative to the lower wall. The feed level sensor
  may be a contact switch, a pressure sensor, a force sensitive resistor, a strain sensor, a
  flex sensor, or a combination thereof.
   [0013] The present invention also provides a kit of parts, comprising:
         a plurality of troughs each comprising a circular pan with a circumferential rim
  and a central cone;
         a plurality of hoppers each comprising a hollow upper inverted frustrum of a cone
  that converges to a hollow lower cylinder having a slotted lower edge configured to
  overlie the central cone of the trough; and
         a plurality of roofs each comprising a hollow frustum of a cone having a lower
  edge configured to overlie the upper inverted frustum of the hopper.
  [0014] The kit of parts may further comprise a plurality of awnings each comprising a
  horizontal flattened ring configured to be arranged between the roof and the hopper to
  overlie the trough.
  [0015] Each individual part of the kit of parts may be configured to be removably
  stackable and nestable with other like parts.
5 Brief Description of Drawings
  [0016] Embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example only with
  reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
          Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a kit of parts for a livestock feeder
D according to an embodiment of the invention;
          Figures 2 and 4 are respective top and bottom perspective views of a livestock
  feeder formed from the kit of parts;
          Figure 3 is a side view of the livestock feeder with a detail view of a feed flow
  control system; and
5         Figures 5 and 6 are respective top and bottom views of the livestock feeder.

  Detailed Description
  [0017] Existing livestock feeders are typically manufactured from metals which have the
  disadvantage that they are subject to corrosion when they come in contact with salt,
  molasses, urea, grain, saliva from animals and faeces. All of those corrosive elements
  are integral to the environment in which livestock feeders are utlised yet there has been
  no comprehensive solution to the problem posited to date. The inventor has therefore
  determined that an improved livestock feeder might be manufactured predominantly of
  plastic materials to overcome the corrosive hazards associated with an agricultural
  environment.
  [0018] Plastic materials have the advantage over steel in as much as plastics, for
  example polyethelene, are subject to creep when under load yet will return to its original
  shape once the load is removed ie. plastics have "memory" whereas metals placed
  under load are more likely to buckle or bend permanently assuming a sufficient load is
  exerted upon it. Steel, for example has an elastic modulus of 200,000 MPa whilst the
  short term modulus for polyethelene is 200MPa in compression and 600 MPa
  (approximately) in tension. Whilst steel is far more rigid than polyethelene by a factor of
  somewhere between 300 and 1000, polyethelene will bend back to its original shape if it
  is subjected to excessive load, for example, a tractor sliding back downhill whilst the
  operator is filling the livestock feeder. Polyethelene is also subject to deformation by
  heat, for example, sunlight which assists in restoring the materials to their original form
  once the load has been removed.
5
  [0019] One disadvantage of using polyethelene or other plastic materials as the main
  component of a livestock feeder is that when the materials are under load which is
  unevenly distributed across its surface area the materials will be subjected to creep and
  will buckle. This is not a problem in structures such as water tanks as water is a liquid
) and so gravitational forces and load associated with the contents are distributed evenly
  within the tank. In the case of grains or other livestock feeds or bulk solids, the load is
  not distributed evenly within the vessel containing the feed as the grains or other
  feedstuff have an angle of repose of approximately 30 degrees as a result of the shape
  of the grains.    Additionally, it is usual for livestock to prefer one side of a feeder to
5 another which results in unevenly distributed grains or feedstuff being contained within
  the feeder and associated load been exerted upon the walls of the feeder unevenly
  leading to creep and deformation of the walls to the point where the feeder will collapse.

  The inventor has developed a solution for overcoming this problem associated with the
  use of plastics and so has managed to provide a livestock feeder which has the
  advantages of plastics over conventional steel livestock feeders but which is not subject
  to the disadvantages of using plastic materials associated with an agricultural
  environment.
  [0020] Referring to the drawings, an example livestock feeder 10 according to an
  embodiment of the invention may generally comprise a plurality of hollow, stackable (or
  nestable), annular (or horizontal circular cross section), coaxial modular components.
  The modular components may comprise a trough 12, a hopper 14 and a roof 16. The
  trough 12 may comprise a circular pan 18 with a circumferential rim 20 and a central
  cone 22. The hopper 14 may comprise a hollow upper inverted frustrum 24 of a cone
  that converges to a hollow lower cylinder 26 having a slotted lower edge 28 configured
  to overlie the central cone 22 of the trough 12. As illustrated in Figure 1, the slotted
  lower edge 28 of the hopper 14 may be locatable on support posts 29 extending radially
  outwards from the base of the cone 22. The roof 16 may comprise a hollow frustum 30
  of a cone (or frustocone) having a lower edge 32 configured to overlie the upper
  inverted frustum 24 of the hopper 14. The roof 16 may comprise reinforcing ribs 31
  provided on its outer surface. In use, feed (not shown) for animals, such as livestock,
  contained in the hopper 14 flows downwardly under gravity downwardly and outwardly
  over the cone 22 which radially distributes the feed outwardly through the slotted lower
  edge 28 into the trough 12.
  [0021] The livestock feeder 10 may further comprise a cylindrical skirt 34 that is
5 configured to circumferentially surround the slotted lower edge 28 of the lower cylinder
  26 of the hopper 14. The cylindrical skirt 34 may be adjustably vertically movable to
  selectively cover and open the slotted lower edge 28 to thereby adjust flow rate of feed
  from the hopper 14 to the trough 12. The livestock feeder 10 may further comprise a
  hoop 35 provided around an upper portion of the lower cylinder 26 of the hopper 14.
D The hoop 35 may be integrally formed on the lower cylinder 26 or may be formed
  separately and mounted to the lower cylinder 26. For example, the hoop 35 may be
  made of steel tubing and bolted to the upper portion of the lower cylinder 26 of the
  hopper 14. The cylindrical skirt 34 may be pivotally suspended from the hopper 14 by a
  plurality of circumferentially spaced apart hangers 37 (eg, six hangers 37), each having
5 an upper end pivotally mounted to a lower portion of the lower cylinder 26 of the hopper
  14, and a lower end pivotally mounted to the cylindrical skirt 34. The cylindrical skirt 34

  may be adjustably vertically movable by tightening and loosening a plurality of threaded
  rods 39 located around the circumference of the cylindrical skirt 34 which communicate
  with a plurality of complementary eyebolts 40 located upon the lower cylinder of the
  hopper and which are secured by a pair of adjustable nuts 41, 42 placed on either side
  of each of the eyebolts 40. The plurality of threaded rods 39 and eyebolts 40 may be
  respectively provided on opposite sides of the cylindrical skirt 34 other otherwise be
  evenly dispersed around the cylindrical skirt to ensure circumferentially uniform opening
  and covering of the slotted lower edge 28. In addition to mounting the threaded rods 39
  and eyebolts 40, the hoop 35 may also provide added structural support to the other
  components and the assembled livestock feeder 10. The purpose of the skirt 34 is to
  move up and down to control the flow of feed out of the storage hopper 14 and into the
  trough 12-and controls the amount of opening right around the skirt 34. This provides
  simple and reliable feed flow rate adjustment which is less susceptible to being blocked
  by differing feed materials under differing climatic conditions and humidities.          In
  alternative embodiments of the invention the flow adjustment configuration may
  comprise a turnbuckle and cam system (not shown).
  [0022] The livestock feeder 10 may further an awning 36 comprising a plurality of
  sectors, for example six sectors, of a horizontal flattened ring configured to be arranged
  between the roof 16 and the hopper 14 to overlie the trough 12 to provide shade and
  weatherproofing for feed in, and livestock (not shown) at, the trough 12.
  [0023] The livestock feeder 10 may further comprise a circular lid 38 configured to
  overlie a top opening 40 defined by an upper circular edge 42 of the frustrum 30 of the
5 roof 16. The opening 40 can be reinforced with a steel hoop (or hoop made of other
  suitably resilient and resistant to deformation) which is securely fitted within the upper
  circular edge 42 of the frustrum 30 of the roof 16 for adding rigidity to the roof 16 in
  order to offset the effects of weathering upon the feeder 10 particularly in hot dry
  climates. The lid 38 is actuatable via an L-shaped lever 44 pivotally mounted on the roof
D 16 to open and close the lid 38. In some embodiments the lid 38 may be remotely
  opened and closed by either pulling down a bail handle, rope or stay (not shown)
  attached to handle (not shown) located at ground level. The stay can be attached to the
  lid 38 to reduce flexing of the lid and to provide additional rigidity to the lid 38.
  Alternatively, the lever 44 may be operated by a feed augur (not shown) pushing down
5 or pulling back on the lever 44 from above before filling of the hopper 14. Other
  equivalent or alternative remote lid opening arrangements may also be used. For

  example, the livestock feeder 10 may further comprise a motor-driven actuating
  mechanism (not shown) operatively connected to the lid 38 and/or the lever 44. The
  motor-driven actuating mechanism may be operatively connected to a controller and a
  wireless communication interface (not shown) to enable the lid 38 to be opened and
  closed remotely from a distance, for example, using a smartphone. A power source (not
  shown) may be provided for the motor-driven actuating mechanism, controller and
  wireless communication interface. The power source may be a solar panel, a wind
  generator, a battery, or a combination thereof.
  [0024] Two or more of the trough 12, hopper 14, roof 16, hoop 35, awning 36, and lid 38
  may be removably attachable together by releasable fasteners, for example, screws,
  nuts, bolts, or a combination thereof. For example, in one embodiment, all of these
  components may be removably connected together by releasable fasteners. Two or
  more of the trough 12, hopper 14, roof 16, cylindrical skirt 34, awning 36, lid 38, hoop
  35, may be mouldings of a resiliently rigid plastic material. For example, in one
  embodiment, all of these components may be plastic mouldings. Other equivalent or
  alternative constructions and materials may also be used. The hoop 35 and circular lid
  hoop may be manufactured of steel to resist deformation. One or both of the roof 16 and
  the hopper 14 may be mouldings of a transparent or translucent plastic material so that,
  in use, a level of feed inside the hopper 14 may be determined visually from a distance,
  for example, from a farm vehicle (not shown).
  [0025] The cone 22 of the trough 12 may comprise spaced apart upper and lower walls
  (not shown), wherein the upper wall is resiliently deformable relative to the lower wall,
5 so that in use resilient deformation or flex of the upper wall relative to the lower wall is
  indicative of feed level in the hopper 14. The livestock feeder 10 may further comprise a
  feed level sensor (not shown) configured to sense resilient deformation or flex of the
  upper wall relative to the lower wall, or to sense resilient deformation or flex of other
  walls of the cone 22 or the cone 22 itself. The feed level sensor may be a contact
D switch, a pressure sensor, a force sensitive resistor, a strain sensor, a flex sensor, or a
  combination thereof. The feed level sensor may be located on the cone 22 or within the
  material of the cone 22 itself. Other equivalent or alternative configurations and
  positions of the feed level sensor in walls of the cone 22 may also be used. The feed
  level sensor may have a power source (not show) and a wireless communication
5 interface (not shown) to enable the sensed feed level to be communicated wirelessly to
  a wireless computing device, such as a desktop or laptop computer, smartphone or

  tablet. Further or alternatively, the livestock feeder 10 may comprise a light source (not
  shown) for visually indicating the sensed feed level. The power source may provide
  power for the feed level sensor, wireless communication interface, light source, or a
  combination thereof. The power source may be a solar panel, a wind generator, a
  battery, or a combination thereof.
  [0026] The livestock feeder 10 may further comprise a modular ground support frame
  46 that is removably attachable to the trough 12, the hopper 14, or a combination
  thereof. The ground support frame 46 may comprise a plurality of legs 48 connected
  between upper and lower horizontal subframes 50, 52. The upper ends of the legs 48
  may extend up into the hopper 14 and be releasably fastened thereto by, for example,
  nut and bolts (not shown). The upper horizontal subframe 50 may comprise
  interconnectable horizontal brace members 54 that collectively support the hopper 14,
  and surround and support upper portions of the legs 48. The lower horizontal subframe
  52 may comprise interconnectable horizontal foot members 56 extending from lower
  ends of the legs 48. The interconnectable horizontal brace members 54 and horizontal
  foot members 56 may be shaped and configured so that both of the upper and lower
  horizontal subframes 50, 52 have a hexagonal plan shape. During assembly, tightening
  of the bolts connecting the upper ends of the legs 48 may pull out and straighten the
  legs 48, and also push the horizontal foot members 56 together to thereby make the
  whole ground support frame 46 sufficiently secure and solid to support the weight of
  feed inside the hopper 14. The hangers 37 may be fastened to the upper ends of the
  legs 48 by, for example, bolts that extend through holes in the hopper 14. The modular
  components of the ground support frame 46 may, for example, be made from RHS steel
  tubing. Other equivalent or alternative constructions, arrangements and configurations
  of the ground support frame 46 may also be used. Apart from the ground support frame
  46, hoop 35, fasteners and fittings, the major structural and functional components
  livestock feeder 10 may all have a lightweight, resiliently rigid and substantially-all
  plastic construction that does not rust, which resists warpage and deformation from the
) effects of gravity and the weather and contamination from the foodstuffs housed within
  the feeder and corrosion from the agricultural environment. Amongst the advantages of
  using plastic materials is that saliva and faeces from the animals using the feeder,
  which are highly corrosive, does not adversely affect the plastic materials thereby
  greatly extending the life of the feeder and therefore the costs associated with its use.
5
  [0027] A plurality of livestock feeders 10 may be provided as a kit of portable modular

parts comprising respective pluralities of troughs 12, hoppers 14, roofs 16 and awnings
36. Each individual part of the kit of parts may be configured to be removably stackable
and nestable with other like parts. This enables multiple livestock feeders 10 to be
conveniently transported on a road vehicle to geographically dispersed farms. Once
delivered to a farm, the livestock feeder 10 may be assembled from the kit of parts, and
conveniently transported on a farm vehicle to a livestock feeding site.
[0028] Embodiments of the present invention provide useful stock feeders that are
simple, lightweight, rust resistant, warp resistant, blockage resistant, portable and
modular.
[0029] For the purpose of this specification, the word "comprising" means "including but
not limited to", and the word "comprises" has a corresponding meaning.
[0030] The above embodiments have been described by way of example only and
modifications are possible within the scope of the claims that follow.

   A livestock feeder, comprising:
          a trough comprising a circular pan with a circumferential rim and a central cone;
   a hopper comprising a hollow upper inverted frustrum of a cone that converges to a
   hollow lower cylinder having a slotted lower edge configured to overlie the central
   cone of the trough, wherein the hollow upper inverted frustrum and the hollow lower
   cylinder are formed as a moulding in a plastic material; and
          a roof comprising a hollow frustum of a cone having a lower edge configured to
   overlie the upper inverted frustum of the hopper;
          a cylindrical skirt configured to circumferentially surround the slotted lower edge
   of the lower cylinder of the hopper, wherein the cylindrical skirt is adjustably vertically
   movable to selectively cover and open the slotted lower edge to thereby adjust flow
   rate of feed from the hopper to the trough;
          the cylindrical skirt is pivotally suspended from the lower cylinder of the hopper
   by circumferentially spaced apart hangers each having an upper end pivotally
   mounted to the lower cylinder, and a lower end pivotally mounted to the cylindrical
   skirt;
          the cylindrical skirt is adjustably vertically movable by tightening and loosening
   a plurality of threaded rods located around the circumference of the cylindrical skirt
   upon which are passed through a plurality of complementary eyebolts located upon
   the lower cylinder of the hopper and which are secured by a pair of adjustable nuts
   placed on either side of each of the eyebolts;
          and a deformation resilient hoop provided around an upper portion of the lower
   cylinder of the-hopper.
2. The livestock feeder of claim 1, further comprising an awning comprising a horizontal
   flattened ring configured to be arranged between the roof and the hopper to overlie
   the trough; and wherein two or more of the trough, hopper, roof, hoop, and awning
   are removably attachable together by releasable fasteners.
3. The livestock feeder of claim 1, wherein one or both of the roof and the hopper are
   mouldings of a transparent or translucent plastic material so that, in use, a level of
   feed inside the hopper can be determined visually from a distance.
4. The livestock feeder of any of the preceding claims wherein the roof has an opening
   which is sealed by a movable circular lid and which is reinforced by a deformation
   resilient hoop securely fitted within an upper circular edge of the frustum for
   providing rigidity to the roof.
5. The livestock feeder of claim 1, further comprising a modular ground support frame
   that is removably attachable to the trough, hopper, hoop, or a combination thereof.

                                             1/6
                                             38                             10
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                        31
              32
                   28
                                                                  35
                                                             39
                   37
                                  37   22
                   29
                        54
                                                                       46
                                                         48
                                                   50   52
                             56
                                       Figure 1

                                    <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
          38                   44
                                      16
                                                 36
                          31
                                                      35
                                                                2/6
                                            20
                 24                                   39
                          26                18
                                            12
46
     37                              46
               Figure 2

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       3/6
46
 Figure 3

                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                10
38               44
       14
                           36
                                                   4/6
                46
     Figure 4

                     <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                  10
                             36
           44
38
                                  32
                16
                                                 5/6
31
Figure 5

           <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                             10
                    36
                        46
                                                6/6
                   54
              56
Figure 6

