                                         Abstract
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising arformoterol
and fluticasone furoate (preferably for once daily administration), to a process for
preparing such a composition and to the use of such a composition for the treatment
treatment and/or prevention of respiratory, inflammatory or obstructive airway disease.
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

       Pharmaceutical composition comprising arformoterol and fluticasone furoate
This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013246692, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.         Most of the
disclosure of that application is also included herein, however, reference may be made to
the specification of Australian Patent Application No. 2013246692 as filed to gain further
understanding of the invention claimed herein.
FIELD OF INVENTION:
The present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions for inhalation comprising
an inhaled corticosteroid and a   p-agonist, and processes for preparing the compositions.
Furthermore the invention relates to the use of said composition in the treatment and/or
prevention of respiratory, inflammatory or obstructive airway disease and methods of
treatment employing the same.
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION:
Asthma is a major cause of chronic morbidity and mortality, with an estimated 300
million affected individuals worldwide and 250,000 annual deaths attributed to the
disease. People of all ages in most countries are affected by this chronic disease.
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways associated with airway hyper
responsiveness that leads to recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest
tightness, and coughing. An increased inflammatory response is a major part of the
pathophysiology of acute asthma and regular preventive treatment of the same is very
important.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a severe respiratory condition that is
increasing in prevalence worldwide. In India, the estimated prevalence is about 12.36
million.
                                              1
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a preventable and treatable disease
state characterized by air flow limitation that is not fully reversible. The airflow
obstruction is usually progressive and associated with an abnormal inflammatory
response of the lungs to noxious particles or gases, primarily caused by cigarette
smoking. Although COPD affects the lungs it also produces significant systemic
consequences.                 COPD is associated with mucus hyper secretion, emphysema and
bronchiolitis.
Therapy for the treatment or prevention of COPD and asthma currently includes the use
of bronchodilators and steroids.
More specifically asthma, COPD and other related disorders have been known to be
treated with            p2-agonists   as they provide a bronchodilator effect, resulting in relief from
the symptoms of breathlessness.                  p2 -agonists can be short acting for immediate relief or
long acting for long term prevention of asthma symptoms.
Long acting              p2-agonists   improve lung function, reduce symptoms and protect against
exercise-induced dyspnea in patients with asthma and COPD. Long acting                        p2-agonists
induce bronchodilation by causing prolonged relaxation of airway smooth muscle.                         In
addition to prolonged bronchodilation, long acting                     p2-agonists  (LABAs) exert other
effects such as inhibition of airway smooth-muscle cell proliferation and inflammatory
mediator release as well as non smooth-muscle effects such as stimulation of mucociliary
transport, cytoprotection of the respiratory mucosa and attenuation of neutrophil
recruitment and activation.
Further, use of a long acting             p2 -agonist reduces the frequency   of drug administration.
Currently available long acting               p2 -agonists (LABAs) include   salmeterol and formoterol.
Even         though           it  is known     that    p2-agonists  provide   a   symptomatic   relief in
bronchoconstriction and another component of asthma, which is inflammation, requires
                                                            2
9796887_1 (GHMatters) P98081.AU.1

separate treatment such as steroid. Most of the inhaled corticosteroids need to be
administered in multiple dosage regimens.
Corticosteroids                exhibit inhibitory effects on inflammatory cells and inflammatory
mediators involved in the pathogenesis of respiratory disorders. Treatment with a
corticosteroid/glucocorticoid is considered one of the most potent and effective therapies
currently available for persistent asthma.
But the use of corticosteroids has been limited due to potential side effects. The side
effects that are normally                  feared with corticosteroids include suppression of the
Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis, effects on bone growth in children and on
bone density in the elderly, ocular complications (cataract formation and glaucoma) and
skin atrophy.
Currently available corticosteroids include beclomethasone, budesonide, fluticasone,
mometasone, ciclesonide and triamcinolone.
Currently, there are several approved combinations of long-acting p-agonist (LABA) and
inhaled corticosteroid (ICS). Some of these approved combinations for the treatment of
asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are salmeterol/fluticasone
propionate (Advair diskus, Advair HFA), and formoterol fumarate dihydrate/budesonide
(Symbicort).
Combination therapy of a long-acting                 p-agonist (LABA) with an inhaled corticosteroid
(ICS) improves pulmonary efficiency, reduces inflammatory response and provides
symptomatic relief as compared to higher doses of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) alone in
patients affected by respiratory disorders such as asthma and COPD.
Additionally it simplifies the therapy, reduces the cost and also provides control of
respiratory disorders.
                                                          3
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

US6030604 discloses a dry powder composition comprising glucocorticoids and                    P2
agonist.
W00178745                  discloses compositions containing a combination of formoterol and
fluticasone propionate.
US7172752 discloses inhalation particles comprising a combination of a p2 -agonist and a
glucocorticosteroid in a predetermined and constant ratio.
W002083113                    discloses pharmaceutical compositions comprising formoterol and a
steroidal anti-inflammatory agent in a pharmacologically suitable fluid.
W02004028545                      discloses a combination  of   a  long-acting p-2-agonist and   a
glucocorticosteroid in the treatment of fibrotic diseases.
US2005053553 discloses methods for administration by inhalation of a metered dry
powder having combined doses of formoterol and fluticasone.
Further, none of the above mentioned prior arts disclose a specific combination of
Arformoterol and Fluticasone furoate
Most of the available combinations of a long-acting P-agonist (LABA) with inhaled
corticosteroid (ICS) have to be administered twice daily.
Even from the patient compliance point of view, the treatment requires for the patient to
comply with different dosage regimens, different frequencies of administration etc.
Efforts to improve compliance have been aimed at by simplifying the medication
packaging, providing effective medication reminders, improving patient education and
limiting the number of medications prescribed simultaneously.
                                                        4
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

Hence, there still remains a need to formulate a phannaceutical composition which
simplifies the dosage regimen by administering an effective combination of arformoterol
and fluticasone furoate for the treatment of respiratory disorders.
ADVANTAGES OF THE INVENTION:
It would be advantageous if the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a long-acting          p-agonist (LABA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for
administration in the prevention or treatment of respiratory, inflammatory or obstructive
airway disease.
It would also be advantageous if the present invention provides a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a long-acting p-agonist (LABA) and an inhaled corticosteroid
(ICS) for once daily administration for the prevention or treatment of respiratory,
inflammatory or obstructive airway disease.
It would further be advantageous if the present invention provides a process for preparing
the pharmaceutical composition comprising a long-acting p-agonist (LABA) and an
inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for administration in the prevention or treatment of
respiratory, inflammatory or obstructive airway disease.
It would also be advantageous if the present invention provides a method for the
treatment or prevention of asthma, COPD or a related respiratory disorder, which method
comprises administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a long-acting            p
agonist (LABA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION:
According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising arformoterol and fluticasone furoate, wherein the molar ratio of
arformoterol to fluticasone furoate is from about 1:10 to 1:100.
                                                5
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising arformoterol and fluticasone furoate, wherein a single dose of
said composition comprises from about 2 mcg to about 10 mcg of arformoterol and from
about 25 mcg to about 800 mcg of fluticasone furoate.
According to yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for
preparing a pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims,
comprising combining arformoterol and fluticasone furoate, optionally with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.
According to still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for
the treatment or prevention of asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or
a related disorder,               said method comprising administration   of a pharmaceutical
composition according to the present invention to a patient in need thereof.
According              to a further aspect of the present invention there      is provided the
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention for use in the treatment or
prevention of asthma, COPD or a related disorder.
According to a yet further aspect of the present invention there is provided the use of a
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention for the treatment or prevention of
asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or a related disorder.
According to a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided the use of a
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention in the manufacture of a medicament
for the treatment or prevention of asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
or a related disorder.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION:
Drug therapy with a long-acting            p-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) has
been recommended for the prevention or treatment of respiratory, inflammatory or
                                                      6
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

obstructive airway disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD).
Also, there is a need to simplify the various different dosage regimens as well as the
different frequencies of drug administration.
Further selecting a combination of a long-acting                  p2-agonist  (LABA) and an inhaled
corticosteroid (ICS) is critical since both drugs should be capable of being administered
once daily. A treatment method where a long-acting                p2-agonist  (LABA) is required to be
administered once daily and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) is required to be administered
twice daily will not be useful since the purpose of once a day treatment is defeated.
Further there is a need to formulate a composition which can be administered once daily
for the prevention of conditions that respond to or are prevented, ameliorated or
eliminated             by the administration of long-acting        p-agonists (LABA) and inhaled
corticosteroids (ICS).
It has been surprisingly found that arformoterol in combination with fluticasone furoate
provides relief from respiratory disorders while simultaneously reducing the frequency of
dosage administration.
The present invention thus provides a novel combination for inhalation comprising
arformoterol in combination with fluticasone furoate for the prevention or treatment of
respiratory, inflammatory or obstructive airway disease while simultaneously reducing
the frequency of dosage administration.
The term "arformoterol" is used in a broad sense to include not only "arformoterol" per
se but also its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates,
pharmaceutically                  acceptable  hydrates,   pharmaceutically   acceptable   enantiomers,
pharmaceutically                   acceptable   derivatives,  pharmaceutically     acceptable    esters,
pharmaceutically                  acceptable  polymorphs,    pharmaceutically   acceptable    prodrugs,
                                                          7
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

pharmaceutically                  acceptable complex, pharmaceutically acceptable         co-crystals etc.
Arformoterol salts include acid addition salts such as acetic, benzenesulfonic, benzoic,
camphorsulfonic,                  citric, ethenesulfonic, fumaric,   gluconic,   glutamic, hydrobromic,
hydrochloric, isethionic, lactic, maleic, malic, mandelic, methanesulfonic, mucic, nitric,
pamoic, pantothenic, phosphoric, succinic, sulfuric, tartaric acid and p-toluenesulfonic.
Preferably the arformoterol salt used in the present invention is arformoterol tartrate or
arformoterol fumarate, especially arformoterol fumarate dihydrate.
Arformoterol is the active (R, R)-enantiomer of formoterol. It has a rapid onset and a
longer duration of action. Further, Arformoterol has two-fold greater potency than
racemic          formoterol (which contains both the (S,                S)  and    (R, R) enantiomers).
Arformoterol seems to have little or no effect on               pi-adrenergic  receptors.
The term "fluticasone furoate" is used in broad sense to include not only "fluticasone
furoate" per se but also its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, pharmaceutically acceptable
solvates, pharmaceutically acceptable enantiomers, pharmaceutically acceptable hydrates,
pharmaceutically                  acceptable   derivatives,  pharmaceutically    acceptable   polymorphs,
pharmaceutically                   acceptable    prodrugs,    pharmaceutically     acceptable    complex,
pharmaceutically acceptable co-crystals etc.
Fluticasone is currently available as a furoate ester and propionate ester. Fluticasone
furoate is a corticosteroid which substantially overcomes the potential side effects that are
generally produced by the use of conventional corticosteroids. Moreover fluticasone
furoate exhibits a 1.7 times higher binding affinity for the human glucocorticoid receptor
as compared to that of fluticasone propionate.
Fluticasone furoate has a longer duration of action with an elimination half life of 15.1
hrs. Arformoterol has a longer duration of action and also exhibits a faster onset of
action.
                                                            8
9796887 1 (GHMttersi P98081.AU. 1

Fluticasone furoate and Arformoterol mainly act on two different components of asthma
exhibiting a complimentary action. Chronic inflammation which is commonly associated
with asthma is managed by fluticasone furoate while other aspects of asthma, such as
abnormalities in bronchial smooth muscle are improved, by arformoterol.
Hence, the combination of fluticasone furoate with arformoterol provides a novel
combination which has the convenience of once daily administration for patients of
asthma and COPD.
Further a rapid onset of the effect of the combination due to arformoterol may increase
the patient's confidence in the treatment and subsequently improve compliance to
therapy.
According to the present invention, a single dose may comprise from about 2 mcg to
about 10 mcg of arformoterol, preferably from about 3mcg to about 9 mcg. A single dose
may comprise about 3 mcg, about 5 mcg, about 7 mcg or about 9 mcg of arfonnoterol.
According to the present invention, a single dose may comprise from about 25 mcg to
about 800 mcg of fluticasone furoate, preferably from about 50 mcg to about 400 mcg. A
single dose may comprise about 27.5 mcg, about 50 mcg, about 100 mcg, about 125 mcg,
about 200 mcg, about 250 mcg or about 400 mcg.
In embodiments in which the composition of the present invention is administered once a
day, a single dose may provide the daily dose.       Alternatively, the daily dose may
comprise multiple doses of the composition, e.g. two doses, which can be taken at the
same time if administered once a day or which can be taken at different times if
administered more than once a day.
In embodiments in which a single dose provides a single daily dose, a single daily dose
may comprise 5 mcg fluticasone furoate and 50 mcg arformoterol, 5 mcg fluticasone
                                             9
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

furoate         and         125 mcg arformoterol,  or  10 mcg fluticasone furoate and 250 mcg
arformoterol.
The molar ratio of arformoterol to fluticasone furoate in the composition of the invention
is preferably from about 1:10 to 1:100, preferably from 1:15 to 1:70.
The pharmaceutical composition may be in a form suitable for administration as a single
medicament.
The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may comprise arformoterol
and fluticasone furoate with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered by any
suitable method used for delivery of the drugs to the respiratory tract. The compositions
of the present invention may thus be in a form suitable for inhalation.              Hence the
pharmaceutical composition may be formulated as a composition for inhalation from
metered dose inhalers (MDI), dry powder inhalers (DPI), nebulisers and the like; or the
pharmaceutical composition may be formulated as a composition for inhalation in the
form of a nasal spray, nasal drops, respules, insufflation powders and the like.            A
"respule" is a dosage form suitable for use with a nebuiliser; a respule is an ampoule
containing a drug in liquid form. Respules, nasal sprays and nasal drops may contain the
pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention in the form of an inhalation
solution or inhalation suspension.
The        various           dosage forms  according  to the present invention may    comprise
carriers/excipients suitable for formulating the same.
The metered dose inhalers, according to the present invention, may comprise one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as HFC/HFA propellants, co-solvents, bulking
                                                      10
9796887_1 (GHMatters) P98081.AU.1

agents, non volatile component, buffers/pH adjusting agents, surfactants, preservatives,
complexing agents, or combinations thereof.
Propellants are those which, when mixed with the cosolvent(s), form a homogeneous
propellant system in which a therapeutically effective amount of the medicament can be
dissolved. The HFC/HFA propellant must be toxicologically safe and must have a vapor
pressure which is suitable to enable the medicament to be administered via a pressurized
MDI.
According to the present invention the HFC/HFA propellants may comprise, one or more
of 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFA-134(a)) and 1,1,1,2,3,3,3,-heptafluoropropane (HFA
227), HFC-32 (difluoromethane), HFC-143(a) (1,1,1-trifluoroethane), HFC-134 (1,1,2,2
tetrafluoroethane), and HFC-152a (1,1-difluoroethane)         and the like or combinations
thereof and such other propellants which may be known to the person having a skill in the
art.
Co-solvent is any solvent which is miscible in the composition in the amount desired and
which, when added provides a composition in which the medicament can be dissolved.
The function of the co-solvent is to increase the solubility of the medicament and the
excipients in the composition.
According to the present invention the co-solvent may comprise one or more of, C2 . C6
aliphatic alcohols, such as, but not limited to, ethyl alcohol and isopropyl alcohol; glycols
such as but not limited to propylene glycol, polyethylene glycols, polypropylene glycols,
glycol ethers, and block copolymers of oxyethylene and oxypropylene; and other
substances, such as but not limited to glycerol, polyoxyethylene               alcohols, and
polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters; hydrocarbons such as but not limited to n-propane, n
butane, isobutane, n-pentane, iso-pentane, neo-pentane, and n-hexane; and ethers such as
but not limited to diethyl ether and the like or combinations thereof.
                                              11
9796887 1 (GHMttersi P98081.AU.1

Suitable surfactants may be employed in the aerosol solution composition of the present
invention which may serve to stabilize the solution composition and improve the
performance of valve systems of the metered dose inhaler.
According to the present invention the surfactant may comprise one or more ionic and/or
non- ionic surfactant, but not limited to oleic                       acid, sorbitan trioleate, lecithin,
isopropylmyristate, tyloxapol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polysorbates such as polysorbate 80,
vitamin E-TPGS, and macrogol hydroxystearates such as macrogol-15-hydroxystearate
and the like or combinations thereof.
Non- volatile component is all the suspended or dissolved constituents that would be left
after evaporation of the solvent.
According to the present invention, the non-volatile component may comprise one or
more of saccharides, including monosaccharides such as but not limited to glucose,
arabinose              and        disaccharides such    as   lactose,  maltose;   oligosaccharides   and
polysaccharides such as but not limited to dextrans; polyalcohols such as but not limited
to glycerol, sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol and the like or combinations thereof; and/or salts
such as but not limited to potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, magnesium sulphate,
sodium chloride, sodium citrate, sodium phosphate, sodium hydrogen phosphate, sodium
hydrogen carbonate,                    potassium citrate, potassium phosphate, potassium hydrogen
phosphate, potassium hydrogen carbonate, calcium carbonate and calcium chloride and
the like or combinations thereof.
Suitable bulking agents may be employed in metered dose inhalation composition of the
present invention.
According to the present invention, the bulking agent may comprise one or more of
saccharides,              including monosaccharides,        disaccharides,  polysaccharides   and  sugar
alcohols such as arabinose, glucose, fructose, ribose, mannose, sucrose, terhalose, lactose,
maltose, starches, dextran or mannitol and the like or combinations thereof.
                                                           12
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

Suitable buffers or pH adjusting agents may be employed in the metered dose inhalation
composition of the present invention.
According to the present invention, the buffer or the pH adjusting agent may comprise
one or more of organic or inorganic acids such as but not limited to citric acid, ascorbic
acid, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, or phosphoric acid and the like or
combinations thereof.
Suitable preservatives may be employed in the aerosol solution composition of the
present invention to protect the composition from contamination with pathogenic
bacteria.
According to the present invention, the preservative may comprise one or more of
benzalkonium chloride, benzoic acid, benzoates such as sodium benzoate and the like or
combinations thereof and such other preservatives which may be known to the person
having a skill in the art.
Suitable complexing agents may be employed in the aerosol solution composition of the
present invention which is capable of forming complex bonds.
According to the present invention, the complexing agent may comprise one or more of
but not limited to sodium EDTA or disodium EDTA and the like or combinations thereof.
The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may also be administered by a
dry powder inhaler (DPI).
The pharmaceutically acceptable excipients suitable for dry powder inhalation according
to the present invention may be selected from suitable carriers which include but are not
limited to sugars such as glucose, saccharose, lactose and fructose, starches or starch
derivatives, oligosaccharides such as dextrins, cyclodextrins and their derivatives,
                                            13
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

polyvinylpyrrolidone, alginic acid, tylose, silicic acid, cellulose, cellulose derivatives (for
example cellulose ether), sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol, calcium carbonate,
calcium phosphate, etc. lactose, lactitol, dextrates, , dextrose, maltodextrin, saccharides
including monosaccharides, disaccharides, polysaccharides; magnesium stearate, glycine,
sodium citrate, sugar alcohols such as arabinose, ribose, mannose, sucrose, trehalose,
maltose, dextran and the like or combinations thereof.
The phannaceutical composition of the present invention may be administered using a
nebuliser as well.
Nebulisation is a safe therapy to deliver or deposit medications directly into the
respiratory tract and hence achieve higher drug concentrations. Nebulisation is easy to
use and does not require co-ordination or much effort. It also works much more rapidly
than medicines taken by mouth.
In embodiments in which the pharmaceutical composition is formulated for inhalation in
the form of a nasal spray, nasal drops or respules, the composition may comprise suitable
excipients such as wetting agents, osmotic agents, tonicity agents, pH regulators,
buffering agents, complexing agents and the like or combinations thereof in a suitable
vehicle such as, but not limited to water, saline and the like.
Tonicity agents, that may be used, comprise sodium chloride, potassium chloride, zinc
chloride, calcium chloride and the like or combinations thereof. Other tonicity agents
may also include, but are not limited to, mannitol, glycerol, and dextrose and the like or
combinations thereof
The pH may be adjusted by the addition of pharmacologically acceptable acids.
Pharmacologically acceptable inorganic acids or organic acids may be used for this
purpose. Examples of preferred inorganic acids are selected from the group consisting of
hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, nitric acid, sulphuric acid and phosphoric acid.
Examples of particularly suitable organic acids are selected from the group consisting of
                                              14
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

ascorbic acid, citric acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, maleic acid, succinic acid, fumaric
acid, acetic acid, formic acid and propionic acid and the like or combinations thereof.
Complexing agents according to the present invention may comprise edetic acid (EDTA)
or one of the known salts thereof, e.g. sodium EDTA or disodium EDTA dihydrate
(sodium edetate) and the like or combinations thereof.
Anti-microbial preservative agent may be added for multi-dose packages.
The compositions according to the present invention may be packed in suitable containers
provided with means of enabling the delivery/deposition of the contained composition to
the respiratory tract.
The powder for inhalation intended to be delivered by DPI may either be encapsulated in
capsules of gelatin or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) or in blisters or
alternatively, a reservoir may be filled with the dry powder either in a single dose or
multi-dose dry powder inhalation device.
Alternatively, the powder for inhalation intended to be delivered by DPI may be
suspended in a suitable liquid vehicle and packed in an aerosol container along with
suitable propellants or mixtures thereof.
Further, the powder for inhalation intended to be delivered by DPI may also be dispersed
in a suitable gas stream to form an aerosol composition.
The MDI composition according to the present invention may be packed in plain
aluminium cans or SS (stainless steel) cans. Some aerosol drugs tend to adhere to the
inner surfaces, i.e., walls of the cans and valves, of the MDI. This can lead to the patient
getting significantly less than the prescribed amount of the active agent upon each
activation of the MDI. Coating part or all of the inner surface of the container with a
suitable polymer can reduce this adhesion problem. Suitable coatings include
                                              15
9796887_1 (GHMatters) P98081.AU.1

fluorocarbon                copolymers such as FEP-PES (fluorinated ethylene propylene and
polyethersulphone) and PFA-PES (perfluoroalkoxyalkane and polyethersulphone), epoxy
and ethylene. Alternatively, the inner surfaces of the cans may be anodized, plasma
treated or plasma coated.
It may be well acknowledged to a person skilled in the art that the said pharmaceutical
composition, according to the present invention, may further comprise one or more
active(s) selected from anticholinergics, antihistamines, antiallergics or leukotriene
antagonist and the like or combinations thereof or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
solvates, tautomers, derivatives, enantiomers, isomers, hydrates, prodrugs or polymorphs
thereof.
The present invention also provides a process to manufacture the compositions according
to the present invention.
The present invention provides a process of preparing a metered dose inhalation
composition. The process comprises combining a phannaceutically acceptable carrier or
excipient with the actives and the propellant and providing the composition in precrimped
cans.
The present invention also provides a process of preparing a dry powder inhalation
composition. The process comprises combining a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
excipient with the actives and providing the composition in a dry powder inhaler device.
The present invention also provides a method for the treatment or prevention of asthma,
COPD or a related disorder. The method of treatment comprises administration of a
pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention to a patient in need
thereof. The patient may be a mammal, such as a human.
The following examples are for the purpose of illustration of the invention only and are
not intended in any way to limit the scope of the present invention.
                                                   16
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

Example 1
                      Sr. No.              Ingredients            Qty/spray
                           1.     Fluticasone Furoate      50 mcg
                          2.      Arformoterol tartrate    3 meg
                           3.     HFA134A/ HFA227          q. s.
Process:
1) Fluticasone Furoate and Arformoterol tartrate were homogenized with Part quantity of
HFA.
2) The suspension obtained in step 1 was transferred to the mixing vessel where
remaining quantity of HFA was added.
3) The resulting suspension was mixed, recirculated and filled into a pre-crimped
Aluminium can.
 Example 2
                      Sr. No.              Ingredients            Qty/spray
                           1.     Fluticasone Furoate      50 meg
                          2.      Arformoterol tartrate    3 meg
                          3.      Lactose                  100% of the drug
                          4.      HFA134A/ HFA227          q. s.
Process:
1) Fluticasone Furoate and Arformoterol tartrate were homogenized with lactose and part
quantity of HFA.
2) The suspension obtained in step 1 was transferred to the mixing vessel where
remaining quantity of HFA was added
3) The resulting suspension was mixed, recirculated and filled into a pre-crimped
Aluminium can.
                                                        17
9796887 1 (GHMatt.ers P98081.AU.1

Example 3
                     Sr. No.               Ingredients             Qty/spray
                          1.      Fluticasone Furoate      50 mcg
                          2.      Arformoterol tartrate    3 meg
                          3.      Ethanol                  1-2% of total formulation
                          4.      Oleic acid               0.02 - 5% of the API
                          5.      HFA134a/HFA227           q. s.
Process:
1) Oleic acid was dissolved in Ethanol. Arformoterol tartrate was homogenized with part
quantity of HFA and transferred to the mixing vessel
2) The solution of oleic acid and ethanol was homogenized with Fluticasone Furoate and
part quantity of HFA
3) The suspension obtained in step 2 was transferred to the mixing vessel where
remaining quantity of HFA was added
4) The resulting suspension was then mixed, recirculated and filled into a pre-crimped
Aluminium can.
Example 4
                     Sr. No.               Ingredients           Qty / Unit (mg)
                          1.      Arformoterol                       0.0088
                          2.      Fluticasone Furoate                0.1000
                          3.      Lactose monohydrate               24.8912
                                  Total                              25.000
Process:
1) Sifted lactose was co-sifted with Arformoterol and fluticasone furoate.
2) The mixture obtained in step (1) was blended.
                                                        18
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

Example 5
                     Sr. No.               Ingredients      Qty / Unit (mg)
                           1.     Arformoterol                   0.0088
                          2.      Fluticasone Furoate            0.2000
                          3.      Lactose monohydrate           24.7912
                                  Total                          25.000
Process:
 1) Sifted lactose was co-sifted with Arformoterol and fluticasone furoate.
2) The mixture obtained in step (1) was blended.
Example 6
                     Sr. No.               Ingredients      Qty / Unit (mg)
                           I.     Arformoterol                   0.0088
                          2.      Fluticasone Furoate            0.4000
                          3.      Lactose monohydrate           24.5912
                                  Total                          25.000
Process:
1) Sifted lactose was co-sifted with Arformoterol and fluticasone furoate.
2) The mixture obtained in step (1) was blended.
It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that varying substitutions and
modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein without departing from the
spirit of the invention. Thus, it should be understood that although the present invention
has been specifically disclosed by the preferred embodiments and optional features,
modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those
skilled in the art, and such modifications and variations are considered to be falling
within the scope of the invention.
                                                       19
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

It is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose
of description and should not be regarded as limiting.               The use of "including,"
"comprising," or "having" and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items
listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.
It must be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular
forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural references unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "an excipient" includes a single excipient as
well as two or more different excipients, and the like.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                               20
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

   CLAIMS:
   1.        A pharmaceutical composition comprising arformoterol and fluticasone furoate,
   wherein the molar ratio of arformoterol to fluticasone furoate is from about 1:10 to
   1:100.
   2.        A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of
   arformoterol to fluticasone furoate is from 1:15 to 1:70.
   3.        A pharmaceutical composition according to claim I or 2, wherein a single dose of
   said composition comprises from about 2 mcg to about 10 mcg of arformoterol,
   optionally from about 3 mcg to about 9 mcg of arformoterol.
   4.        A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein a single dose of said composition comprises from about 25 mcg to about
   800 mcg of fluticasone furoate, optionally from about 50 mcg to about 400 mcg of
   fluticasone furoate.
   5.        A pharmaceutical composition comprising arformoterol and fluticasone furoate,
   wherein a single dose of said composition comprises from about 2 mcg to about 10 mcg
   of arformoterol and from about 25 mcg to about 800 mcg of fluticasone furoate.
   6.        A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 5, wherein a single dose of said
   composition comprises from about 3 mcg to about 9 mcg of arformoterol and from
   about 50 mcg to about 400 mcg of fluticasone furoate.
   7.        A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the molar ratio
   of arformoterol to fluticasone furoate is from about 1:10 to 1:100, optionally from 1:15
   to 1:70.
                                               21
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

   8.        A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims,
   further comprising one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.
   9.        A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the composition is in a form suitable for inhalation, optionally formulated as a
   composition for inhalation in the form of a nasal spray, nasal drops, respules or an
   insufflation powder or inhalation from a metered dose inhaler (MDI), a dry powder
   inhaler (DPI) or a nebulizer.
   10.       A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the composition is in a form suitable for use in a metered dose inhaler (MDI)
   and comprises a propellant, and, optionally, an excipient selected from a co-solvent, an
   antioxidant, a surfactant, a bulking agent, a pH adjusting agent and a lubricant or
   combinations thereof.
   11.       A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims I to 9, wherein the
   composition is in a form suitable for use in a dry powder inhaler (DPI) and comprises at
   least one phannaceutically acceptable carrier suitable for use in dry powder inhalation
   formulations, optionally wherein said carrier includes a saccharide and/or a sugar
   alcohol or combinations thereof.
   12.       A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
   composition is in a form suitable for use in a nasal spray, nasal drops or respules and
   comprises an excipient selected from a wetting agent, an osmotic agent, a tonicity agent,
   a pH regulator, a buffering agent and a complexing agent or combinations thereof,
   provided in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle.
   13.       A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the composition is in a form suitable for once daily administration.
                                              22
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

   14.       A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding claims,
   further comprising one or more additional actives selected from anticholinergics,
   antihistamines, antiallergics or leukotriene antagonists.
   15.       A process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the
   preceding             claims,  comprising combining arformoterol and fluticasone   furoate,
   optionally with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.
    16.      A method for treatment or prevention of asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary
   disease (COPD) or a related disorder, comprising administering a pharmaceutical
   composition according to any one of claims I to 14.
   17.       A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims I to 14 for use in
   the treatment or prevention of asthma, COPD or a related disorder.
    18.      Use of a pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 14 for
   the treatment or prevention of asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
   or a related disorder.
    19.      Use of a pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims I to 14 in the
   manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of asthma, chronic
   obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or a related disorder.
                                                    23
9796887 1 (GHMattersi P98081.AU.1

