                                         ABSTRACT
            A system and method detect neuronal action potential signals from tissue
responding to electrical stimulation signals. A sparse signal space model for a set of tissue
response recordings has a signal space separable into a plurality of disjoint component
manifolds including a neural action potential (NAP) component manifold corresponding to
tissue response to electrical stimulation signals. A response measurement module is
configured to: i. map a tissue response measurement signal into the sparse signal model
space to obtain a corresponding sparse signal representation, ii. project the sparse signal
representation onto the NAP component manifold to obtain a sparse NAP component
representation, iii. when the sparse NAP component representation is greater than a
minimum threshold value, report and recover a detected NAP signal in the tissue response
measurement signal.
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

                                                TITLE
         Detecting Neuronal Action Potentials using a Sparse Signal Representation
[0001]        This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application
61/912,648, filed December 6, 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety. This application is a divisional application of Australian application number
2014360375 filed on 5 December 2014, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]        The present invention relates to detecting neuronal action potential signals from
tissue responding to electrical stimulation signals, especially for hearing implant systems
such as cochlear implant systems.
                                       BACKGROUND ART
[0003]        Most sounds are transmitted in a normal ear as shown in Figure 1 through the
outer ear 101 to the tympanic membrane (eardrum) 102, which moves the bones of the
middle ear 103 (malleus, incus, and stapes) that vibrate the oval window and round
window openings of the cochlea 104. The cochlea 104 is a long narrow duct wound
spirally about its axis for approximately two and a half turns. It includes an upper channel
known as the scala vestibuli and a lower channel known as the scala tympani, which are
connected by the cochlear duct. The cochlea 104 forms an upright spiraling cone with a
center called the modiolus where the spiral ganglion cells of the acoustic nerve 113 reside.
In response to received sounds transmitted by the middle ear 103, the fluid-filled cochlea
104 functions as a transducer to generate electric pulses which are transmitted to the
cochlear nerve 113, and ultimately to the brain.
[0004]        Hearing is impaired when there are problems in the ability to transduce external
sounds into meaningful action potentials along the neural substrate of the cochlea 104. To
improve impaired hearing, auditory prostheses have been developed. For example, when
                                                 -1
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

the impairment is associated with the cochlea 104, a cochlear implant with an implanted
stimulation electrode can electrically stimulate auditory nerve tissue with small currents
delivered by multiple electrode contacts distributed along the electrode.
[0005]        In some cases, hearing impairment can be addressed by a cochlear implant (CI), a
brainstem-, midbrain- or cortical implant that electrically stimulates auditory nerve tissue
with small currents delivered by multiple electrode contacts distributed along an implant
electrode. For cochlear implants, the electrode array is inserted into the cochlea. For brain
stem, midbrain and cortical implants, the electrode array is located in the auditory
brainstem, midbrain or cortex, respectively.
[0006]        Figure 1 shows some components of a typical cochlear implant system where an
external microphone provides an audio signal input to an external signal processor 111
which implements one of various known signal processing schemes. For example, signal
processing approaches that are well-known in the field of cochlear implants include
continuous interleaved sampling (CIS) digital signal processing, channel specific sampling
sequences (CSSS) digital signal processing (as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,348,070,
incorporated herein by reference), spectral peak (SPEAK) digital signal processing, fine
structure processing (FSP) and compressed analog (CA) signal processing.
[0007]        The processed signal is converted by the external signal processor 111 into a
digital data format, such as a sequence of data frames, for transmission by an external coil
107 into a receiving stimulator processor 108. Besides extracting the audio information,
the receiver processor in the stimulator processor 108 may perform additional signal
processing such as error correction, pulse formation, etc., and produces a stimulation
pattern (based on the extracted audio information) that is sent through electrode lead 109
to an implanted electrode array 110. Typically, the electrode array 110 includes multiple
stimulation contacts 112 on its surface that provide selective electrical stimulation of the
cochlea 104.
[0008]        To collect information about the electrode - nerve interface, a commonly used
                                                -2
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

objective measurement is based on the measurement of Neural Action Potentials (NAPs)
such as the electrically-evoked Compound Action Potential (eCAP), as described by Gantz
et al., IntraoperativeMeasures of ElectricallyEvoked Auditory Nerve Compound Action
Potentials,American Journal of Otology 15 (2):137-144 (1994), which is incorporated
herein by reference. In this approach, the recording electrode is usually placed at the scala
tympani of the inner ear. The overall response of the auditory nerve to an electrical
stimulus is measured typically very close to the position of the nerve excitation. This
neural response is caused by the super-position of single neural responses at the outside of
the auditory nerve membranes. The response is characterized by the amplitude between
the minimum voltage (this peak is called typically NI) and the maximum voltage (peak is
called typically P2). The amplitude of the eCAP at the measurement position is between
10 ptV and 1800 ptV. One eCAP recording paradigm is a so-called "amplitude growth
function," as described by Brown et al., Electrically Evoked Whole Nerve Action
PotentialsIn Ineraid CochlearImplant Users. Responses To Different Stimulating
Electrode ConfigurationsAnd Comparison To PsychophysicalResponses, Journal of
Speech and Hearing Research, vol. 39:453-467 (June 1996), which is incorporated herein
by reference. This function is the relation between the amplitude of the stimulation pulse
and the peak-to-peak voltage of the eCAP. Another clinically used recording paradigm is
the so called "recovery function" in which stimulation is achieved with two pulses with
varying interpulse intervals. The recovery function as the relation of the amplitude of the
second eCAP and the interpulse interval allows conclusions to be drawn about the
refractory properties and particular properties concerning the time resolution of the
auditory nerve.
[0009]        Detecting NAPs such as eCAPs is based on an analysis of an obtained
measurement recording (R) which can be understood as a signal mixture containing the
desired NAPs (A), artifacts due to the stimulation (B) and other sources (C) and noise (D).
A linear model of this signal mixture is:
                                      R=A+B+C+D
[0010]        State-of-the-art NAP measurement systems apply special recording sequences to
                                             -3
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

reduce the unwanted artifacts and the noise present during the measurement. The
stimulation artifact (B) is partially removed from the recording (R) by different
measurement paradigms such as "alternating stimulation" (Eisen MD, Franck KH:
"Electrically Evoked Compound Action Potential Amplitude Growth Functions and
HiResolution Programming Levels in Pediatric CII Implant Subjects." Ear & Hearing
2004, 25(6):528-538; which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), "masker
probe" (Brown C, Abbas P, Gantz B: "Electrically evoked whole-nerve action potentials:
data from human cochlear implant users." The Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America 1990, 88(3):1385-1391; Miller CA, Abbas PJ, Brown CJ: An improved method
of reducing stimulus artifact in the electrically evoked whole-nerve potential. Ear &
Hearing 2000, 21(4):280-290; both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entireties), "tri-phasic stimulation" (Zimmerling M: "Messung des elektrisch evozierten
Summenaktionspotentials des H6rnervs bei Patienten mit einem Cochlea-Implantat." In
PhD thesis Universit t Innsbruck, Institut fUr Angewandte Physik; 1999; Schoesser H,
Zierhofer C, Hochmair ES. "Measuring electrically evoked compound action potentials
using triphasic pulses for the reduction of the residual stimulation artefact," In: Conference
on implantable auditory prostheses; 2001; both of which are incorporated herein by
reference in their entireties), and "scaled template" (Miller CA, Abbas PJ, Rubinstein JT,
Robinson B, Matsuoka A, Woodworth G: Electrically evoked compound action potentials
of guinea pig and cat: responses to monopolar, monophasic stimulation. Hearing Research
1998, 119(1-2):142-154; which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
Artifacts due to other sources (C) are partially removed by a "zero amplitude template"
(Brown et al. 2000). The noise (D) is reduced by repeated measurements, averaging over
the repeated recordings reduces the noise level by -N for N repetitions.
[0011]        These special recording sequences result in a processed recording (R') with a
reduced noise floor (D') and remaining artifacts (B' and C) which in most cases are
reduced in amplitude. Some recording sequences also result in an altered NAP response
(A'), for example the "masker probe" paradigm (Westen, A. A.; Dekker, D. M. T.; Briaire,
J. J. & Frijns, J. H. M. "Stimulus level effects on neural excitation and eCAP amplitude."
Hear Res, 2011, 280, 166-176; which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                                               -4
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

[0012]        To automatically detect a NAP response in the resulting recording (R') one
commonly used technique is known as "template matching" (SmartNRI as used by
Advanced Bionics; Arnold, L. & Boyle, P. "SmartNRI: algorithm and mathematical
basis." Proceedings of 8th EFAS Congress / 10th Congress of the German Society of
Audiology, 2007; which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). First an
additional de-noising of the recording (R') is performed by calculating correlations with
basis functions predefined by a principal component analysis and performing weighted
summation, resulting in a recording (R") with reduced noise (see U.S. Patent 7,447,549;
which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Then an artifact model     (BMoadcl +
CModei)     representing the sum of two decaying exponentials is fitted to this post-processed
recording (R") and with a strength of response metric (SOR=(R"-       BMocdl - CModcl )/noise) a
threshold is determined to detect a possible NAP (A) (U.S. Patent 7,818,052; which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
[0013]        Another approach to automatically detect a NAP response in the resulting
recording (R') is known as expert system (AutoNRT TM as used by Cochlear Ltd.; Botros,
A.; van Dijk, B. & Killian, M. "AutoNRT(tm): An automated system that measures ECAP
thresholds with the Nucleus(R) Freedom(tm) cochlear implant via machine intelligence"
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, 2007, 40, 15-28; which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety). The expert system used is a combination of a template matching
and a decision tree classifier (U.S. Patent Publication US 20080319508 Al; which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). The template matching classifier
computes the correlation with a NAP (A) template and a NAP plus stimulation artifact
(A+B) template. The decision tree uses the following six parameters:
      *     NI-PI amplitude for NAP typically latencies
      *     noise level
      *     ratio NI-P 1 amplitude to noise level
      *     correlation with NAP (A) template
      *     correlation with NAP plus stimulation artifact (A+B) template
      *     correlation between this measurement (R) and a previous measurement at a lower
                                                -5
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

            stimulation amplitude.
Two different decision tree classifiers were learned with a C5.0 decision tree algorithm.
For the case where no NAP (A) was detected at lower stimulation levels, the stimulation
level was increased and a decision tree with a low false positive rate was used to
determine the presence of a NAP (A). For the case where a NAP (A) was detected, the
stimulation level was reduced and a decision tree with a low overall error rate was used to
evaluate the presence of a NAP (A).
[0014]        An established working hypothesis is that neurosensory systems are performing a
highly optimized signal analysis using a sparse representation (see for example B.
Olshausen and D. Field, "Sparse coding of sensory inputs," Curr Opin Neurobiol, vol. 14,
no. 4, pp. 481-487, 2004, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Such a signal
model is important in the context of analysis, estimation and automatic detection of a
signal. The earliest theoretical signal analysis model, proposed by Fourier (J. B. J. Fourier,
Th6orie analytique de la chaleur (The Analytical Theory of Heat). Paris: F. Didot, 1822,
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), analyzes the frequency content of a signal
using the expansion of functions into a weighted sum of sinusoids. Gabor (D. Gabor,
"Theory of communications," Journal of Institute of Electrical Engineers, vol. 93, no. III
26, pp. 429-457, 1946, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety) extended this
signal model by using shifted and modulated time-frequency atoms which analyze the
signal in the frequency as well as in the time dimension. The wavelet signal model, a
further improvement presented by Morlet et al. (J. Morlet, G. Arens, I. Fourgeau, and D.
Giard, "Wave propagation and sampling theory," Geophysics, vol. 47, no. 2, pp. 203-236,
1982, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), uses time-frequency atoms that are
scaled dependent on their center frequency. This yields an analysis of the time-frequency
plane with a non-uniform tiling. However, the time-frequency atoms used in these signal
models normally do not assume an underlying signal structure. As the performance of
subsequent detection algorithms depends strongly on how well the fundamental features of
a signal are captured, it is favorable to use time-frequency atoms that are specialized to the
applied signal class and inherently exhibit the property of a sparse representation. To
derive such a data dependent sparse signal-model, several algorithms have been proposed,
                                              -6
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

for example, but not limited to: MOD (K. Engan, S. 0. Aase, and J. H. Husey, "Method of
optimal directions for frame design", Proc. ICASSP, Vol. 5, pp. 2443 - 2446, 1999,
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety) or K-SVD (U.S. Patent 8,165,215,
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                                               SUMMARY
[00015]          Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method to
detect neuronal action potential signals from tissue responding to electrical stimulation
signals. A sparse signal space model for a set of tissue response recordings has a signal
space separable into a plurality of disjoint component manifolds including a neural action
potential (NAP) component manifold corresponding to tissue response to electrical
stimulation signals. A response measurement module is configured to: i. map a tissue
response measurement signal into the sparse signal model space to obtain a corresponding
sparse signal representation, ii. project the sparse signal representation onto the NAP
component manifold to obtain a sparse NAP component representation, iii. report a
detected NAP signal in the tissue response measurement signal when the signal energy of
the sparse NAP component representation is greater than a minimum threshold value.
[0016]        Based on the signal mixture R=A+B+C+D (as described above), the response
measurement module may be further configured to project, recover and report at least one
other detected signal for at least one other component manifold in the model signal space,
such as a stimulation artifact signal B. The detected NAP signal A may specifically be an
electrically-evoked compound action potential (eCAP) signal. The sparse signal space
model may specifically be a MOD or K-SVD trained model. The NAP component
manifold may be constrained by a NAP signal model. And the minimum threshold value
may be a fixed constant value, or a variable function of one or more components in the
tissue response measurement signal.
                                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]        Fig. 1 shows anatomical structures of a human ear having a cochlear implant
                                                 -7
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

system.
[0018]        Fig. 2 shows various components in a system for measuring neural action
potential (NAP) signals from tissue responding to electrical stimulation signals according
to one specific embodiment of the present invention.
[0019]        Fig. 3 shows the functional steps in a method of measuring neural action
potential (NAP) signals from tissue responding to electrical stimulation signals according
to one specific embodiment of the present invention.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0020]        Instead of using complex detection algorithms such as template matching or
machine-learned expert systems such as decision tree classifiers to recognize possible
NAPs directly in the tissue response measurement recording, embodiments of the present
invention maps the recording into a sparse signal space using for example a MOD or K
SVD trained signal model to obtain a sparse signal representation which allows a robust
and computationally inexpensive signal detection and classification of possible NAPs and
signal artifacts within this signal space.
[0021]        Figure 2 shows various functional blocks in a system for measuring neural action
potential (NAP) signals from tissue responding to electrical stimulation signals and Figure
3 shows the functional steps in a method of measuring neural action potential (NAP)
signals from tissue responding to electrical stimulation signals according to embodiments
of the present invention. Response measurement module 201 contains a combination of
software and hardware for generating electrical stimulation pulses for the target neural
tissue and recording and analyzing the NAPs. For example, the response measurement
module 201 may be based on a Research Interface Box (RIB) II system manufactured at
the University of Technology Innsbruck, Austria which may include a personal computer
equipped with a National Instruments digital 10 card, a RIB II isolation box, and a
communications cable between 10 card and RIB II box. The electrical stimulation pulses
are transmitted from the response measurement module 201 through a control interface
                                                -8
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

202 to an external transmitter 203 which transmits them through the skin to implant
electrodes to the target neural tissue. The NAP responses are recorded at the implant
electrodes and transmitted via the external transmitter 203 through the control interface
202 to the response measurement module 201.
[0022]        Initially, a sparse signal space model S is trained for a set of tissue response
recordings in a form r = a + b + c + d, where r E R = RN is an individual tissue response
recording representing a signal mixture , a E RNis a neural action potential (NAP)
component of r, b E RN is a stimulation artifact component of r, CE RNis an other source
artifact component of r, d E RN is a noise component of r, where the sparse signal model
S: RN      -   RMsuch that a sparse signal representation rs =f(r) with minIIrI10 , and
                   i.    a, =fs(a), a, E A =Ra cS, a < M,
                   ii. b,         (b),b, C B = cS, f < M,
                   iii. C, =f(c), c, C = RY cS, y < M,
withA nB =0,A n C =0,B n C =0andca+ f3+y < M. Theminimumofafunction
with respect to a variable x is denoted as min f (x). The LO norm, which corresponds to
                                                 x
the number of non-zero elements, is denoted as            |O.That is, the sparse signal space S is
separable into multiple disjoint component manifolds (A, B, C). Training of the sparse
signal space model S only needs to be done once with a sufficiently large number of
known tissue response recordings and for each of the component manifolds.
[0023]        The response measurement module 201 then accesses the sparse signal space
model, step 301, and derives a sparse signal representation rs for the tissue response
measurement signal r using the predefined sparse signal space model S, step 302. The
response measurement module 201 then projects the sparse representation rs onto all
predefined manifolds, step 303; for example, projecting the sparse representation rs onto
the NAP component manifold A to obtain a sparse representation as of a possible NAP,
step 304. The response measurement module 201 then reports if a predefined signal was
present in the tissue response measurement signal r when the signal energy of the sparse
representation is greater than a minimum threshold value energy; e.g., a NAP component a
                                                 -9
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

is reported if the derived |as|| > ath,, step 305.
[0024]        If the stimulation artifact signal b is desired, then the response measurement
module 201 projects sparse representation r, into the stimulation artifact manifold B, and
likewise for source artifact component signal c and the noise component d. This system
allows a measurement analysis using just computationally inexpensive projections. That
reduces the computational complexity considerably, and furthermore, operating within the
sparse signal space is very efficient since many of the signal coefficients are zero.
Furthermore this system mimics the signal processing of neurosensory systems that are
optimized to perform in a robust manner.
[0025]        Once the projection into the predefined sparse signal space has been done, the
needed energy to detect a component signal a, b, c or d can be calculated or looked up in a
table. For example, a look up table may store the energy for the associated NAP signal of
the NAP component manifold in the sparse signal space. If the energy level of the signal
component is above some minimum threshold value, then the NAP signal has been
recovered. This energy threshold may be a fixed level, or in some embodiments, it may be
a variable function of one or more of the components in the tissue response measurement
signal. For example, if the stimulation artifact b has a relatively high signal energy, that
suggests that the reference electrode contact has high impedance and may need to be
checked. It also suggests that the estimate of the NAP signal needs to be done very
carefully, and so the energy threshold for the NAP signal may accordingly be increased.
[0026]        Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in part in any conventional
computer programming language. For example, preferred embodiments may be
implemented in a procedural programming language (e.g., "C") or an object oriented
programming language (e.g., "C++", Python). Alternative embodiments of the invention
may be implemented as pre-programmed hardware elements, other related components, or
as a combination of hardware and software components.
[0027]        Embodiments also can be implemented in part as a computer program product for
                                                   -10
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

use with a computer system. Such implementation may include a series of computer
instructions fixed either on a tangible medium, such as a computer readable medium (e.g.,
a diskette, CD-ROM, ROM, or fixed disk) or transmittable to a computer system, via a
modem or other interface device, such as a communications adapter connected to a
network over a medium. The medium may be either a tangible medium (e.g., optical or
analog communications lines) or a medium implemented with wireless techniques (e.g.,
microwave, infrared or other transmission techniques). The series of computer
instructions embodies all or part of the functionality previously described herein with
respect to the system. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that such computer
instructions can be written in a number of programming languages for use with many
computer architectures or operating systems. Furthermore, such instructions may be
stored in any memory device, such as semiconductor, magnetic, optical or other memory
devices, and may be transmitted using any communications technology, such as optical,
infrared, microwave, or other transmission technologies. It is expected that such a
computer program product may be distributed as a removable medium with accompanying
printed or electronic documentation (e.g., shrink wrapped software), preloaded with a
computer system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk), or distributed from a server or
electronic bulletin board over the network (e.g., the Internet or World Wide Web). Of
course, some embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a combination of both
software (e.g., a computer program product) and hardware. Still other embodiments of the
invention are implemented as entirely hardware, or entirely software (e.g., a computer
program product).
[0028]         Although various exemplary embodiments of the invention have been disclosed,
it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can
be made which will achieve some of the advantages of the invention without departing
from the true scope of the invention.
                                             -11
10285256_1 (GHMaters) P103156.AU.1

                                                    CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A system for detecting neuronal action potential signals from tissue responding to
electrical stimulation signals, the system comprising:
      a sparse signal space model for a set of tissue response recordings, the model having a
                   signal model space separable into a plurality of disjoint component manifolds
                   including a neural action potential (NAP) component manifold corresponding
                   to tissue response to electrical stimulation signals; and
      a response measurement module configured to:
                   i.    map a tissue response measurement signal into the signal model space to
                   obtain a corresponding sparse signal representation;
                   ii. project the sparse signal representation onto the NAP component manifold
                   to obtain a sparse NAP component representation; and
                   iii. if the energy in the sparse NAP component representation of the manifold
                   is greater than a minimum threshold value, report a detected NAP signal in the
                   tissue response measurement signal.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the response measurement module is further
configured to project, recover and report at least one other detected signal for at least one
other component manifold in the model signal space.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the at least one other detected signal is a
stimulation artifact signal.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the detected NAP signal is an electrically
evoked compound action potential (eCAP) signal.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the sparse signal space model is a MOD or
K-SVD trained model.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the NAP component manifold is constrained
                                                     -12
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

by a NAP signal model.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the minimum threshold value is a fixed
constant value.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the minimum threshold value is a variable
function of one or more components in the tissue response measurement signal.
9. A method for detecting neuronal action potential signals from tissue responding to
electrical stimulation signals, the method comprising:
      accessing a sparse signal space model for a set of tissue response recordings, the model
                   having a signal space separable into a plurality of disjoint component
                   manifolds including a neural action potential (NAP) component manifold
                   corresponding to tissue response to electrical stimulation signals;
      mapping a tissue response measurement signal into the model signal space to obtain a
                   corresponding sparse signal representation;
      projecting the sparse signal representation onto the NAP component manifold to
                   obtain a sparse NAP component representation;
      when the sparse NAP component representation is greater than a minimum threshold
                   value, reporting a detected NAP signal in the tissue response measurement
                   signal.
10. The method according to claim 9, further comprising:
      reperforming the steps of projecting, recovering and reporting for at least one other
                   component manifold in the model signal space.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the at least one other component manifold
includes a stimulation signal artifact component manifold and the detected signal is a
stimulation artifact signal.
12. The method according to claim 9, wherein the detected NAP signal is an electrically
evoked compound action potential (eCAP) signal.
                                                   -13
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

13. The method according to claim 9, wherein the sparse signal space model is a MOD or
K-SVD trained model.
14. The method according to claim 9, wherein the NAP component manifold is
constrained by a NAP signal model.
15. The method according to claim 9, wherein the minimum threshold value is a fixed
constant value.
16. The method according to claim 9, wherein the minimum threshold value is a variable
function of one or more components in the tissue response measurement signal.
                                          -14
10285256_1(GHMatters)P103156.AU.1

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       (

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       (

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       ((

