ABSTRACT
A surgical ligation clip and method of operation are described and include a top jaw member and
bottom jaw member joined at a hinge section for movement about the hinge section. The hinge
section can be offset or space laterally from one or both of the jaw members. Teeth arrangements
and distributions are also described, as well as closing and jaw ends engagement configurations,
for example for more easily engaging/piercing connective or other tissue.

WO 2013/059826                                   PCT/US2012/061384
                             1/11
                                  100
                       131
               112                115    118
                                         11 8A
                                               101
                   120                                104
       117                  105                                    103
                  117A              114
                       117B
       11317                      -       2
                       1107             12A          2
                 1166
            116                                 102
                            FIG. 1

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
                                     LIGATION CLIP
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This is a non-provisional of US 61/549,740, filed October 20, 2011, the
 5 content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Background of the Inventions
           Ligation of vessels or other anatomical structures is a common step in
   a large number of surgical procedures. Traditionally, a ligation procedure
10 comprises the placement of a suture about the target vessel or anatomical
   structure (e.g. artery, vein, duct, Fallopian tube, etc.) and tying off the suture
   to close the vessel, conduit or structure. The effective use of sutures to
   accomplish this procedure relies on the skillful execution of complex knots
   using a needle and thread. The space and time needed for this process limits
15 the efficacy of suture-based ligation techniques, particularly in endoscopic or
   laparoscopic surgeries. The restrictions to freedom of movement incumbent
   in the use of minimally invasive surgical techniques present a significant
   challenge to the surgeon when ligating target vessels or structures with
   sutures.
20         The use of ligation clips in open and endoscopic surgical procedures
   addresses many of the shortcomings of suture-based ligation. Ligation clips
   are commonly applied with a tool specifically designed to hold and securely
   apply the clip to a target vessel or the like. Various types of ligation clips are
   commercially available, and can be broadly grouped into symmetric or
25 asymmetric designs fabricated from metallic or polymeric materials. The
   metallic clips are typically symmetric in shape (e.g. U or V shaped) and
   fabricated from materials including, but not limited to, stainless steel, titanium,
   tantalum, and alloys thereof. The metallic clips are placed around the target
   vessel and permanently (i.e. plastically) deformed to close and restrict flow
30 through the target vessel. While functional, the design and material
   components of metallic clips limit their use under the state of the art. For
   example, metallic clips cannot be used in patients that may undergo magnetic
   resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) as the clips can
   interfere with the signals used in those imaging modalities. Furthermore,

   WO 2013/059826                                                        PCT/US2012/061384
   since the metallic clips are closed via permanent deformation of the clip itself,
   an inherent limit is placed on the size vessel a given size of metallic clip can
   close (i.e. the high magnitude of deformation required to close a metallic clip
   about a larger diameter vessel may weaken the metal and induce a break or
 5 other failure in the structure of the clip) resulting in potentially catastrophic
   clinical consequences.
            Polymeric ligation clips provide an alternative to metallic clips with
   several important differences. One such difference is the compatibility of
   polymeric clips with state of the art imaging modalities (e.g. MRI, CT, etc.).
10 For example, polymeric ligation clips are non-magnetic and can be used in
   patients that will likely undergo MRI in the future. A second difference is in
   the means of maintaining the clips in closed state about the target vessel.
   Polymeric ligation clips are not typically plastically deformed about the target
   vessel; instead, the clips include design features that employ locking or
15 latching mechanisms to hold the clip in a closed state. This offers an
   advantage over metallic, plastically deformable clips, in that a larger vessel for
   a given clip size may be closed with a plastic locking clip (as opposed to a
   plastically deformable clip of similar size), provided the locking mechanism is
   strong or robust enough to maintain the clip in the closed or securely locked
20 position. Polymeric clips may further be divided into those that are intended
   for permanent residence in the patient following the surgical procedure and
   those that are designed to degrade after a specified amount of time post
   implantation.
           A ligation clip that can pinch or retain the target vessel or tissue or a
25 part thereof, for example into the jaws of the clip prior to the clip reaching the
   fully closed position, provides a clip that is easier and more reliable to use. A
   clip that can secure the vessel or tissue in a position close to the hinge or
   junction of the clip as the jaws close provides for increased utilization of the
   available clip space. Also, a clip that can draw or pull the pinched vessel or
30 tissue towards the hinge or junction section when the clip is closing and/or
   retain it there when the clip is fully closed and locked provides a more reliable
   and useful clip. Furthermore, a ligation clip comprising a robust means of
   piercing through or penetrating tissue that is attached to the target vessel and
                                              2

   may interfere with the closing and/or locking of the ligation clip also improves the use and
   reliability of ligation clips.
            Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
   included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
 5 invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the
   prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as
   it existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of this application.
    Summary
            In a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a ligation clip comprising: first
 0 and second jaw members having proximal portions and distal portions, the first and second jaw
   members extending generally longitudinally and movably coupled to each other by a hinge
   portion at the proximal portions; a tip member on the distal portion of the first jaw member; and
   a hook member on the distal portion of the second jaw member, the hook member being
   configured to deflect around the tip member to secure the ligation clip in a closed configuration,
 5 wherein the first jaw member includes an inner convex segment extending between the tip
   member and the hinge portion, the second jaw member includes an inner concave segment
   extending between the hook member and the hinge portion, the inner concave segment is
   configured to receive the inner convex segment in the closed configuration, and the first jaw
   member includes a convex outer surface.
20          In a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a ligation clip comprising:
   first and second jaw members having proximal portions and distal portions, the first and second
   jaw members extending generally longitudinally and movably coupled to each other by a hinge
   portion at the proximal portions; a tip member on the distal portion of the first jaw member; a
   hook member on the distal portion of the second jaw member, the hook member being
25 configured to deflect around the tip member to secure the ligation clip in a closed configuration;
   and at least one tooth positioned on the second jaw member, wherein the first jaw member
   includes a first convex segment between the tip member and the hinge portion, the second jaw
                                                        3

   member includes a second convex segment between the hook member and the hinge portion, the
   at least one tooth is positioned on the second convex segment, and the first and second convex
   segments are configured to pinch a proximal portion of tissue while the distal portions are spaced
   apart.
 5          In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of applying a ligation
   clip to a tissue, the ligation clip including first and second jaw members, each of the first and
   second jaw members having a proximal portion and a distal portion, the first and second jaw
   members being coupled at the proximal portions with a hinge portion, the method comprising:
   positioning the ligation clip in an open configuration, such that the distal portions of the first and
 0 second jaw members are spaced apart and the tissue is received between the first and second jaw
   members; pivoting at least one of the first and second jaw members at the hinge portion; and pulling
   a proximal portion of the tissue with the first jaw member proximally along the second jaw member
   toward the hinge portion.
            A preferred embodiment of the ligation clip provides an improved means of securing the
 5 target vessel or tissue prior to locking the jaws in the closed position. Further disclosed are
    designs of ligation clips that have increased contact surface length while maintaining a minimal
    overall length profile of the clip, thereby enabling the ligation of larger vessels or
   tissues.examples are also provided for a means of piercing tissue adjacent to a vessel that is
    disposed between the locking features of the ligation clip, and present an atraumatic form to the
 0 tissues surrounding the target upon closure of the ligation clip.
            In one example of a ligation clip, the clip includes first and second jaws movably coupled
   to each other by a flexible portion positioned at proximal portions of the jaws. The flexible
   portion may be offset from one or both of the first and second jaws. The flexible portion can be
   positioned relative to the first and second jaws so that the flexible portion is positioned so as to
25 be asymmetric relative to the first and second jaws. In another example, the flexible portion is
   joined to one of the jaws by an angularly-extending element extending between the flexible
   portion and the respective jaw. The angularly extending element may extend at an angle to a
    longitudinal extent of the jaw, or at an angle to a line that represents an average of the direction
    in which the jaw extends.
                                                        3a

           In a further example of a ligation clip, the ligation clip, including one such as the ligation
   clip described above, includes a jaw having a tooth extending at an angle to a surface on which
   the tooth is supported. In one example, first and second teeth on a given jaw extend at angles
   different relative to each other. In another example, the ligation clip includes a jaw having a
 5 plurality of teeth and wherein the density of a first plurality of teeth on one portion of the jaw is
   greater than or equal to zero, and a second density of teeth on another portion of the jaw is
   greater than the first density of teeth. In another example, a first jaw has teeth distributed
   according to a first density and the second jaw of the clip includes a density of teeth distributed
   according to a second density different than the first density.
 0
 5
 0
 5
30
35
40
                                                      3b

   WO 2013/059826                                                         PCT/US2012/061384
            In a further example of a ligation clip, the clip, including ones such as
   the ligation clip examples described above, has a first jaw having a lateral
   extension and wherein the lateral extension includes at least one tooth. The
   lateral extension may extend at an angle from the first jaw, and in one
 5 example, may extend at an approximately right angle to the first jaw. The
   lateral extension may include a plurality of teeth, and at least one tooth on the
   lateral extension may be supported at an angle to the surface of the jaw at
   which the tooth is mounted. In one configuration, the lateral extension has a
   flexibility substantially the same as that for the first jaw, and where a flexible
10 hinge portion is included in the clip, the lateral extension may have a flexibility
   less than that of the flexible hinge portion.
            In another example of a ligation clip, a ligation clip, including ones such
   as the ligation clip examples described above, includes a flexible portion
   having a wall defining an opening into or completely through the flexible
15 portion. In one configuration, the opening extends longitudinally of the clip a
   distance greater than a widthwise direction. In another configuration, the
   flexible portion is configured to have different measures of flexibility at
   different locations within the flexible portion. For example, in the configuration
   where the flexible portion includes an opening, the opening can extend over
20 an arc when the clip is in an open configuration, and in a further configuration,
   an opening forming part of the flexible portion extends over an arc. In a
   further configuration, and opening forming an arc for part of the flexible portion
   can be defined by adjacent walls wherein one wall forming one side of the arc
   has a thickness different than another wall forming another side of the arc. In
25 an additional configuration, a ligation clip having a flexible portion with an
   opening in the form of an arc when the clip is in an open configuration can be
   formed so that one portion, for example the center, of the arc has a greater
   flexibility than another portion of the arc.
            In a further example of a ligation clip, a ligation clip, including ones
30 such as the ligation clip examples described above, has a jaw with a corner
   portion within the ligation clip. The corner portion may be partially circular,
   have an eccentric curvature, or a multiple-surface configuration. In one
   configuration, the corner portion includes a plurality of teeth on the corner
   portion, and may include at least one tooth on a first area of the corner portion
                                             4

   WO 2013/059826                                                       PCT/US2012/061384
   and a second tooth on a second area of the corner portion, directed in a
   direction. In another configuration, at least one tooth on the curved surface is
   oriented in a proximal direction, for example toward a hinge portion of the clip.
   Where the hinge portion is a flexible hinge portion, the at least one tooth on
 5 the curved surface is directed at least partly toward the hinge portion.
           In another example of a ligation clip, the ligation clip, including ones
   such as the ligation clip examples described above, has first and second jaws
   coupled to each other by a junction portion. The junction portion includes at
   least one element extending over a first distance at an angle to the first jaw,
10 and the junction portion includes an opening extending over a second
   distance less than the first distance. In one configuration, the junction portion
   is offset from the first jaw, and in another configuration, the junction portion
   may include an arcuate opening. The arcuate opening may define a flexible
   portion wherein one location in the opening, for example when the clip is in an
15 open and relaxed state, may have a different flexibility than another location in
   the opening. In another configuration, the clip may include a piercing element
   at a distal portion of the first jaw and an edge receiver on a distal portion of
   the second jaw for contacting the piercing element.
           In a further example of a ligation clip, the clip, including ones such as
20 the clip examples described above, includes first and second jaws wherein
   the first jaw includes a piercing element and the second jaw includes a
   receiver and wherein the receiver includes a surface for receiving part of the
   piercing element. In one configuration, the piercing element includes a
   longitudinally extending edge to be received in the edge receiver. In another
25 configuration, the edge receiver includes a channel, for example a straight
   channel, for receiving a portion of the piercing element. The channel can
   have a length greater than a length of a piercing element to be received in the
   channel. In one configuration, the piercing element does not extend beyond
   an end surface of the receiver. In another configuration, the receiver includes
30 a guide surface for guiding part of the piercing element along a distal portion
   of the second jaw. The guide surface may be continuous with the receiver.
           Methods are also described for using ligation clips. In one example,
   the forces are applied to first and second jaws of a clip to bring the first and
   second jaws closer together and moving a proximal portion of the first jaw
                                             5

   along a portion of the second jaw. In one configuration, movement of the proximal portion of the
   first jaw moves adjacent tissue along a surface of the second jaw. In another configuration, teeth
   on the proximal portion of the first jaw may move tissue adjacent the teeth along a portion of the
   second jaw lacking teeth. The teeth on the proximal portion of the first jaw may move the tissue
 5 adjacent the teeth proximally along a relatively smooth portion of the second jaw.
            A ligation clip can be manipulated by applying forces to first and second jaws of the clip
   and moving the tissue proximally using a proximal portion of the first jaw. In one configuration,
   the first jaw moves the tissue proximally toward a hinge portion of the clip.
            In another configuration, tissue is moved by the first jaw proximally and away from the
 0 second jaw in the clip. In a further configuration, a ligation clip can be manipulated by applying
   forces to first and second jaws of the clip, and deflecting a hinge portion distally of the clip when
   first and second jaws of the clip are moved toward each other. In one configuration, the hinge
   portion is positioned offset from the second jaw, and the hinge portion is deflected when a distal
   portion of the second jaw contacts a distal portion of the first jaw. When the distal portion of the
 5 second jaw contacts the distal portion of the first jaw, the distal portions may slide relative to
   each other, which may cause the hinge portion to deflect. In a further configuration, sliding of
   the distal portions relative to each other may first cause the end portion to deflect, followed by
   engagement of the distal portions with each other.
            Throughout this specification, the word "comprise", or variations thereof such as
 0 "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
   integer or step, or group of elements integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
   integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
            These and other objects, advantages, and features of the inventions will become apparent
   to those persons skilled in the art upon reading the details of the disclosure as more fully
25 described below.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The inventions are best understood from the following detailed description when read in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is emphasized that, according to common
30 practice, the various features of the drawings are not to-scale. On the contrary, the dimensions of
   various features are arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. Included in the drawings are the
   following figures:
                                                      6

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
           FIG. 1 is a side view of one example of a surgical ligating clip of the
   present inventions.
           FIG. 2 is an isometric view of the example of FIG. 1.
           FIG. 3 is a magnified side view of hinge section of the example of FIG.
 5 1.
           FIG. 4 is a side view of the surgical ligating clip of FIG. 1 in the closed
   position.
           FIG. 5 is a series of images depicting the surgical ligating clip of FIG. 1
   being applied securely across a target vessel.
10         FIG. 6 is a top plan view of a distal portion of a bottom jaw in the clip of
   the example shown in FIG. 1.
           FIG. 7 is a side elevation of the portion shown in FIG. 6.
           FIG. 8 is a front elevation view of the portion shown in FIG. 7.
           FIG. 9 is a top plan view of a distal portion of a top jaw in the clip of the
15 example shown in FIG. 1.
           FIG. 10 is a side elevation of the portion shown in FIG. 9.
           FIG. 11 is a front elevation view of the portion shown in FIG. 10.
           FIG. 12 is an isometric view of a distal portion of the clip of FIG. 1
   shown in a closed configuration.
20         FIG. 13 is a top plan view of the portion shown in FIG. 12.
           FIG. 14 is a photograph of a side elevation of an example clip in the
   jaws of an applier with the clip in an open configuration.
           FIG. 15 is a photograph of a side elevation of the clip of FIG. 14 in the
   jaws of an applier with the clip in a partially closed configuration with two parts
25 of the clip jaws in contact.
           FIG. 16 is a photograph of a side elevation of the clip of FIG. 14 in the
   jaws of an applier with the clip further closed and distal portions of the clip
   jaws in contact.
           FIG. 17 is a photograph of a side elevation of the clip of FIG. 14 in the
30 jaws of an applier with the clip almost closed.
           FIG. 18 is a photograph of a side elevation of the clip of FIG. 14 in the
   jaws of an applier with the clip fully closed.
                                             7

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   Detailed Description
           Examples of clips and of methods of making and using the clips are
   described. Depending on what feature or features are incorporated in a given
   structure or a given method, benefits can be achieved in the structure or the
 5 method.
           These and other benefits will become more apparent with
   consideration of the description of the examples herein. However, it should
   be understood that not all of the benefits or features discussed with respect to
   a particular example must be incorporated into a tool, component or method
10 in order to achieve one or more benefits contemplated by these examples.
   Additionally, it should be understood that features of the examples can be
   incorporated into a clip, component or method to achieve some measure of a
   given benefit even though the benefit may not be optimal compared to other
   possible configurations. For example, one or more benefits may not be
15 optimized for a given configuration in order to achieve cost reductions,
   efficiencies or for other reasons known to the person settling on a particular
   product configuration or method.
           Examples of several clip configurations and of methods of making and
   using the clips are described herein, and some have particular benefits in
20 being used together. However, even though these apparatus and methods
   are considered together at this point, there is no requirement that they be
   combined, used together, or that one component or method be used with any
   other component or method, or combination. Additionally, it will be
   understood that a given component or method could be combined with other
25 structures or methods not expressly discussed herein while still achieving
   desirable results.
           It should be understood that terminology used for orientation, such as
   front, rear, side, left and right, upper and lower, and the like, are used herein
   merely for ease of understanding and reference, and are not used as
30 exclusive terms for the structures being described and illustrated.
           These inventions are not limited to particular examples described, as
   such may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology
   used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only, and is
                                             8

   WO 2013/059826                                                       PCT/US2012/061384
   not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present inventions will be
   limited only by the appended claims.
           Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each
   intervening value, to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context
 5 clearly dictates otherwise, between the upper and lower limits of that range is
   also specifically disclosed. Each smaller range between any stated value or
   intervening value in a stated range and any other stated or intervening value
   in that stated range is encompassed within the inventions. The upper and
   lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included or
10 excluded in the range, and each range where either, neither or both limits are
   included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the inventions,
   subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the
   stated range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both
   of those included limits are also included in the inventions.
15         Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
   have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in
   the art to which these inventions belong. Although any methods and
   materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the
   practice or testing of the present inventions, some potential and preferred
20 methods and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein
   are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods
   and/or materials in connection with which the publications are cited. It is
   understood that the present disclosure supersedes any disclosure of an
   incorporated publication to the extent there is a contradiction.
25         FIGS. 1 and 2 are side and isometric views, respectively, of one
   example of a surgical ligation clip of the inventions 100. FIG. 3 is a close up
   view of the flexible portion of the clip, identified herein as the hinge section
   103 of ligation clip 100. The body of clip 100 is comprised of top jaw member
   101 and bottom jaw member 102 joined at hinge section 103. jaw members
30 101 and 102 are formed such that they have complementary curved inner or
   facing surfaces that mate when the clip is in a closed position, but they can
   also be substantially straight or take other configurations as desired. In the
   present examples, top jaw member 101 has an outer surface 104 that is
   generally convex and an S-shaped inner surface 105. Additionally, the
                                              9

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   proximal side of the jaw member 101 proximally projects towards the hinge
   section 103, forming a heel 121 which may be configured with a radius corner.
   While heel 121 is shown with a radius corner, other atraumatic configurations
   may be employed such as, but not limited to, chamfers or the like. Bottom jaw
 5 member 102 has an outer surface 106 that is generally concave and an S
   shaped inner surface 107 that approximately matches or conforms to the
   profile of the inner surface 105 of top jaw member 101. The proximal side of
   the bottom jaw member 102 proximally projects towards the hinge section
   103, and, in the present example, the jaw transition 122 comprises an inner
10 radius or configuration that matches the corner radius or configuration of heel
   121. The distal side of bottom jaw member 102 may also project distally and
   connect to the piercing element 117 and latch 122. The degree of wave or
   curvature and the length of dorsal or ventral projection(s) of the
   aforementioned jaw members 101 and 102 may be varied along the length of
15 a jaw to further extend or lengthen the clamping surface, thereby allowing the
   clip 100 to ligate a larger vessel without significantly affecting the overall
   length of the clip 100.
           As best shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, hinge section 103 in the present
   example is flexible over an extended length. While the hinge section can be
20 considered to have a central pivot point, such as CL as described herein,
   several of the specific examples described herein are configured so that the
   hinge section is flexible or bends or pivots over a distributed area, for example
   with an effective or constructive pivot point, and for example flexible between
   endpoints of a flexible area (as distinct from inflexible elements pivoting about
25 a pivot axis). In one configuration, the distributed flexing or bending is
   achieved by the provision of a non-circular opening such as the slot 108
   described more fully herein. Conversely, if distributed flexing or bending is
   not desired, flexing or bending about a single axis can be used while adopting
   other features of the inventions described herein.
30         In the examples described herein, the hinge section is offset from the
   jaw members, for example in a direction of motion of one of the jaw members,
   for example laterally form the jaw members when the clip is in the closed
   configuration. The hinge section 103 can be laterally offset from both of the
   jaw members, for example at ends of respective lateral extensions of each of
                                            10

   WO 2013/059826                                                       PCT/US2012/061384
   the jaw members. When the hinge is positioned laterally of both of the jaw
   members, the hinge can be incorporated at any of a number of selected
   locations on the lateral extensions of the jaw members, so that the hinge
   section 103 operates with the jaw members to achieve the desired closing
 5 and tissue clasping and tissue moving functions. A hinge section can be
   formed from a plurality of hinge elements (one or more of the hinge elements
   having the characteristics of the hinge section described herein. For example,
   the plurality of hinge elements together or as an assembly may be configured
   to achieve the desired closing and tissue clasping and tissue moving
10 functions. For a given hinge section, whether a single hinge element or a
   plurality thereof, the hinge section is taken to be bounded on one end by the
   termination of a slot as described herein at one end of the section and by the
   termination of a slot at another end of the section, along with the material in
   between. In one example, the material in between would be the material
15 between tangent lines 108C and 108D of the slot termination points. Where
   there is a single slot, as illustrated herein, the hinge section boundary is
   defined by the terminal ends 108E and 108F of the slot, such as the terminal
   ends of the slot 108 described herein. Where there are multiple slots each
   contributing to the hinge function, the hinge section is bounded by the outer
20 most termini of the outer slots which contribute to the hinge function.
           In examples described herein, the hinge section varies in flexibility
   across the hinge. For example, when considering different positions across
   the hinge in a plane of the clip, for example where the jaws of the clip move
   with respect to each other in the plane of the clip, the flexibility of the hinge at
25 one point may be different than the flexibility of the hinge at another point. In
   several examples herein of a hinge section, the hinge section is formed with a
   slot or other extended opening through the material of the clip where proximal
   portions of the jaws are joined. When the clip is in a relaxed open state, the
   opening has a profile or cross-sectional configuration, for example in the
30 plane of the clip. Where the profile of the opening is noncircular, the flexibility
   of different portions of the hinge segment will be different as a function of
   location in the hinge segment. For example, a portion of the opening defined
   by relatively thin walls will be more flexible at that portion than at another
   portion of the opening defined by thicker walls.
                                             11

   WO 2013/059826                                                     PCT/US2012/061384
           In one example, the hinge section 103 is asymmetric relative to the
   jaws. "Asymmetric" in the context of hinge section 103 being asymmetric
   relative to the jaws in FIGS. 3A and 3B, is that the hinge section, when
   positioned relative to the adjacent connection portions between the hinge
 5 section and the jaws (in the example of FIGS. 3A-C the dorsally and ventrally
   extending jaw portions), is asymmetric relative to a curving interface line at
   the location that the curving interface line intersects the hinge section 103.
   The curving interface line is defined by positions equidistant from the jaw
   surfaces when the jaws are in contact with each other and the curving
10 interface line extends to the hinge section 103. Additionally, in the present
   example, the hinge section 103 separates the clip into two jaws and if a
   vertical (as seen in FIG. 4) line 200 divides the clip when in the closed
   configuration in half longitudinally, then the jaw sections adjacent the hinge
   section are unequal in mass, and the top jaw section in the example of FIG. 3
15 (part of top jaw 101) is lighter in mass than the bottom jaw section (part of
   bottom jaw 102). Also, as seen in FIG. 4, more of the opening 108 is on the
   lower jaw side than on the upper jaw side.
           The hinge section 103 connects the proximally-extending sections of
   the top jaw member 101 and bottom jaw member 102 at respective angularly
20 extending elements in the form of dorsally- and ventrally-extending jaw
   elements 101 H and 102V, respectively, through an elbow 103A, so that the
   hinge section 103 is offset from the top jaw member 101 and the bottom jaw
   member 102. The dorsally- and ventrally-extending jaw elements 101 H and
   102V extend at an angle to the average direction in which their respective
25 jaws extend. In the examples herein, the jaw elements 101 H and 102V are
   relatively rigid, compared to the hinge section 103, and may be formed from
   the same material as their respective jaw members. In these examples, the
   jaw elements 101 H and 102V have the same flexibility as that of the jaw
   members. The hinge section 103 comprises a slot 108 that extends through
30 the width of hinge section 103 (and in the present example extends laterally to
   openings on opposite sides of the hinge section 103), an inner hinge surface
   109, and an outer hinge surface 110.
           Slot 108 in one example extends longitudinally, for example between
   the inner hinge surface 109, and the outer hinge surface 110. In one
                                            12

   WO 2013/059826                                                    PCT/US2012/061384
   example, the slot in saggital section (for example, a section parallel to the
   plane of the drawing of FIG. 1) is longer than it is wide, and may be somewhat
   elliptical or other selected shapes when extended to be straight, though in a
   resting or relaxed state the slot will take the configuration such as that shown
 5 in the drawings, such as FIGS. 1 or 14. When incorporated as part of the
   hinge section 103, the slot will generally have an arcuate configuration, and
   will be configured to achieve the desired closing motion such as those
   described herein. Other slot configurations and closing motions are possible
   as well.
10          Slot 108, in the present example, is preferably positioned closer to
   inner surface 109 than to outer surface 110 to provide greater flexibility of the
   wall adjacent the inner surface 109 when the top jaw member 101 and bottom
   jaw member 102 are closing together, but it is understood that it can be
   substantially centered between the inner and outer hinge surfaces, or closer
15 to the outer hinge surface than to the inner hinge surface, depending on the
   effect and motion desired. In the present example, the thickness 109A of the
   wall between the slot 108 and the inner surface 109 is less than the thickness
   11 0A between the slot 108 and the outer surface 110. The adjacent wall
   along the inner surface 109 of the hinge section 103 may comprise a constant
20 wall thickness (i.e., thickness 109A is substantially constant) or a varying wall
   thickness (i.e., thickness 109A varies over the arc length defining the extent of
   the slot 108 between the dorsally and ventrally extending jaw elements). In
   the case of a varying wall thickness, the thinnest section of the wall along the
   inner surface 109 may define the bending point or pivot point CL (FIGS. 3B &
25 3C) of the hinge when jaw members 101 and 102 are closing together, for
   example the arcuate position of the bending point relative to the slot 108, and
   in the present example within the slot 108.
            In the present example shown in FIGS. 3A-C, the thinnest section of
   the wall along the inner surface 109 is substantially centered along the
30 arcuate extent of the slot 108. In other examples, the thinnest section of the
   wall along the inner surface 109 is measurably closer to the dorsally
   extending jaw element, and in other examples, the thinnest section of the wall
   along the inner surface 109 is measurably closer to the ventrally extending
   jaw element. Herein, "substantially" in the context of substantially centered is
                                            13

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   defined to be providing substantially the same hinge motion for a given clip
   and applier combination with substantially the same final jaw positions relative
   to each other, as a clip wherein the thinnest section of the wall along the inner
   surface 109 is precisely centered in the arcuate extent between the dorsally
 5 extending and ventrally extending jaw elements. "Not substantially" in the
   context of not substantially centered is defined to be not providing
   substantially the same hinge motion for a given clip and applier combination
   with substantially the same final jaw positions relative to each other, as a clip
   wherein the thinnest section of the wall along the inner surface 109 is
10 precisely centered in the arcuate extent between the dorsally extending and
   ventrally extending jaw elements.
          Having the inner wall thickness 109A less than that of the outer wall
   provides preferential bending or flexing of the inner wall relative to the
   bending or flexing of the outer wall. The preferential bending provides a
15 measure of control over how the proximal portions of the jaws come together
   as the applier (not shown with FIGS. 3-4, but see the applier with respect to
   FIGS. 14-18) closes the jaws. Changing the inner and/or outer wall
   thicknesses can be achieved by keeping the slot 108 profile constant and
   moving the slot closer to or further away from the inner surface 109.
20 Alternatively or additionally, the inner and/or outer wall thicknesses can be
   modified by changing the slot 108 profile. For example, the radius defining
   the inner surface 108A (e.g. radius defining the curved surface) of the slot 108
   can be increased or decreased to change the wall thickness 109A. Likewise,
   the radius defining the outer surface 108B can be increased or decreased to
25 change the wall thickness 110A, either separately or in addition to changing
   the radius defining the inner surface 108A. Similarly, these radii can be varied
   as a function of arcuate position to vary the respective thicknesses of the
   segments they define as a function of arcuate position. Additionally, having
   the pivot point CL positioned within the opening 108 (when the clip is in the
30 open position such as shown in FIGS. 3A-C) may also help to provide a
   desired preferential bending. Other bending configurations may be achieved
   by positioning the pivot point CL within the inner wall or exterior (between the
   jaws) to the inner wall, or within the outer wall or exterior (outside the jaws) to
   the outer wall.
                                            14

   WO 2013/059826                                                    PCT/US2012/061384
           As can be seen in FIG. 3A, the wall thickness 109A is constant over a
   relatively short arc length compared to the arc length over which the outer wall
   thickness 11 OA is constant, in the present example. The wall thickness 109A,
   also can be varied as a function of radial position, or arcuate position along
 5 the inner surface 108A. Varying the wall thickness 109A will also vary the
   profile of the inner wall 108A. Likewise, the wall thickness 11 OA can be varied
   as a function of radial position, or arcuate position along the outer surface
   11 0A. Varying the wall thickness 11 0A will also vary the profile of the outer
   wall 108B.
10         The outer wall thickness 11 0A is substantially constant over the
   arcuate extent of the slot 108 in the example shown in FIGS. 3A-C. Therefore,
   the thickness 11 0A of the wall between the slot 108 and the outer surface 110
   is substantially the same between the dorsally extending jaw element 101 H
   and the ventrally extending jaw element 102V. In this example specifically, the
15 intermediate, approximately 75% of the wall between the slot 108 and the
   outer surface 110 has substantially the same thickness, while the thickness at
   the end portions of the slot 108 increase, for example to allow the endpoints
   of the slot 108 to have a curvature. As used herein, "substantially" in the
   context of substantially constant thickness 11 OA of the outer wall is a wall
20 thickness of the outer wall that is constant over at least 50% of the outer wall
   over the extent of the slot or opening 108. In the case of a varying wall
   thickness of the outer wall 110, the thinnest section of the wall along the outer
   surface 110 may help to define the pivot point CL, and in one example a
   center point or intermediate point of the thinnest section of the wall on the
25 outer surface 110 may be aligned with the pivot point CL and the thinnest
   section of the wall on the inner surface 109. In other examples, the center
   point or intermediate point of the thinnest section of the wall on the outer
   surface 110 may be un-aligned with the pivot point CL and the thinnest
   section of the wall on the inner surface 109.
30         The ventral jaw section 102V of the bottom jaw member 102 further
   comprises a plurality of teeth 111 located on inner surface 109. In the present
   example, an axis (not shown) bisecting a respective tooth 111 is positioned at
   an angle to a line normal to the surface to which the tooth is attached (in other
   words, off perpendicular). Also in the present example, the axis is angled
                                            15

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   toward the top jaw member 101, as opposed to the bottom jaw member. This
   angle helps to reduce the likelihood that tissue will migrate along the surface
   to which the tooth is attached toward the bottom jaw member 102. This angle
   also helps to reduce the resistance to tissue movement/ingress into the cavity
 5 toward the inner surface 109 when the tissue is placed into the clip and/or as
   the clip is being closed. As with any individual tooth described or illustrated
   herein, the angle of the axis bisecting the tooth (when viewed from the side
   such as in FIGS. 1, 3-5) can be selected to increase the ability of the tooth to
   resist tissue movement/egress out of the clip or out of the area in which the
10 tooth is located.
            Referring to FIG. 3B, closing the top jaw 101 and/or the bottom jaw 102
   initiates the rotation of the top jaw 101 around the imaginary pivot point CL
   (FIGS. 3B and 3C) relative to the bottom jaw 102. (In the present discussion,
   CL is the point of intersection of all lines through respective points on the top
15 jaw 101 when the jaw is open (FIG. 3B) and when the jaw is closed (FIG.
   3C).) The angular position of heel 121 relative to the bottom jaw decreases
   from angle aA to aB relative to the origin ac, or the line when the clip is in the
   closed position. At angular position aB, heel 121 is at a position closer to the
   inner surface 107 of the bottom jaw member 102 while the opening at the
20 distal end of the jaw members 101 and 102 remains wider (see for example
   FIG. 5B). The closing of heel 121 against or closely adjacent the inner
   surface 107 (and/or proximally relative to the hinge section 103) causes the
   vessel or tissue to be securely engaged against the inner surface 107 or
   pinched between the adjacent surfaces of the top and bottom jaws, reducing
25 the likelihood of the tissue or vessel slipping out of the clip 100 as the jaws
   are closed and locked in place (locked together). Additionally, the teeth 114
   around the perimeter of the heel 121 help to keep the tissue or vessel from
   slipping out of the clip, or at least distally. The teeth 114 also help retain the
   tissue or vessel based on an angular orientation of the bisecting axis directed
30 proximally (positioned at an angle to a line normal to the surface, for example
   107B shown in FIG. 7, to which the tooth is attached (in other words, off
   perpendicular in a proximal direction). The action of continuing to close the
   jaws creates further rotation or angular movement of the heel 121 towards the
   proximal side of the clip 100, dragging or pulling the tissue or vessel
                                             16

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   proximally. At angular position ac, the jaw members 101 and 102 are fully
   closed.
          The relative position of CL, as shown in FIG. 3B, has been found to be
   useful. In this context, CL is approximately centered between the inner and
 5 outer walls 108A and 108B, and is approximately centered along an arc
   between the ends of the slot 108 (as seen in FIG. 3B), when the slot 108 is
   positioned horizontally and vertically (when viewed as shown in FIG. 3B) as
   shown. The slot 108 starts approximately vertically at the vertical (as viewed
   in FIG. 3B) leg 102V extending ventrally from the rest of the bottom jaw 102.
10 The slot extends in an arc along a hinge leg 103V to a horizontal hinge leg
   103H (as viewed in FIG. 3B) and terminates approximately horizontally,
   extending into the adjacent horizontal portion 101 H of the top jaw 101. Other
   configurations of the slot and its position in the hinge section 103 can be used
   to achieve the desired hinge or pivoting action and movement of the heel 121
15 and closure of the spacing 121A. Another example of a hinge location and
   configuration is shown in FIGS. 14-18, discussed more fully below.
          The junction of the horizontal leg 101 H and the adjacent proximal
   portion of the top jaw 101 forms the heel 121. The surface configuration of
   the inner portion of the heel 121 can also affect the rate of closure of the
20 spacing 121A. (Rate in the context of movement of the heel 121 and
   decrease in the spacing 121A is defined below.) If the curvature of the inner
   surface 109 at the horizontal leg 101 H is more concave than as shown in FIG.
   3B, the heel 121 will be protruding into the cavity defined by the inner wall
   109. If more concave, the wall thickness 109A may be smaller resulting in a
25 higher rate of closure of the spacing 121A. Additionally, if the curvature of the
   heel 121 is eccentric (as opposed to substantially semi-circular as shown in
   FIGS. 3A-C but for the teeth), the point of eccentricity and its position along
   the heel 121 may also affect the rate of closure or decrease of the spacing
   121A. These aspects of the heel configuration can be modified as desired to
30 produce the desired effect on tissue in the cavity when the jaws are closing.
           In addition to the heel configuration, other parts of the clip configuration
   can be modified to affect how the clip operates. For example, the length of
   the vertical leg 102V can be increased while keeping the overall slot position
   the same, thereby increasing the spacing 121A, if all other parameters remain
                                            17

   WO 2013/059826                                                     PCT/US2012/061384
   the same. Additionally, the length of the horizontal leg 101H can be increased
   while keeping the overall slot position the same to increase the size of the
   cavity in the hinge area for receiving tissue. Alternatively, or additionally, the
   legs 101 H and/or 102V can remain constant while moving the position of the
 5 slot 108, such as is illustrated in the configuration of FIGS. 14-18 closer to the
   top jaw, which may also be considered shortening the horizontal leg 101H and
   lengthening the vertical leg 102V, or closer to the bottom jaw (not shown).
            As the closing of the jaws brings the heel 121 closer to the inner
   surface 107, the spacing 121A (FIG. 3B) decreases. The rate at which the
10 spacing 121A decreases may be determined at least in part by the position of
   CL. In this context, "rate" means the rate of closure or decrease in spacing
   121A relative to the angular rate of closure of the top and bottom jaws. For
   example, positioning CL higher within the slot 108 (but still centered between
   the inner and outer walls 108A and 108B, respectively) would decrease the
15 rate of closure of the spacing 121A. This is because CL is positioned more
   distally and also ventrally from the bottom jaw 102. Positioning CL lower
   within the slot 108 (but still centered between the inner and outer walls 108A
   and 108B, respectively) would increase the rate of closure. The rate of
   closure will also be affected by the thickness 109A of the wall between the
20 slot 108 and the inner wall surface 109. Other factors may also be used to
   adjust or modify the rate of closure. For example, thickness of the tissue that
   may be inserted between the heel 121 and the surface 107 may change the
   decrease in the spacing 121A. In one configuration, the distance 121A is
   brought to its minimum before the jaws are closed and locked. In one
25 configuration, the heel 121 is positioned and configured to have a relatively
   short distance of travel to the bottom jaw 102, while having a relatively wide
   initial starting spacing when the top and bottom jaws are open for more easily
   receiving tissue into the cavity (adjacent the inner surface 109). Such a
   configuration is made more easy with a higher rate of closure.
30          Top jaw member 101 further comprises a distal section 112 that may
   have a latching feature. The latching feature at distal section 112 comprises
   shroud 118, a groove 119, and latch 131 (FIGS. 1-2). Shroud 118 is
   configured to extend above the outer surface 104 to a height that at least
   matches the tip of the piercing element 117 when the clip is in a closed and
                                            18

   WO 2013/059826                                                  PCT/US2012/061384
   locked position. Shroud 118 may comprise a channel 124 where the piercing
   element 117 may engage when the top and bottom clip jaw members 101 and
   102 are closed and locked in place. Groove 119 faces outwardly of and
   extends proximally from the face of the latch 131 continuing towards the inner
 5 surface 105. Tooth pair 120 (which may resemble a fang) may be provided at
   the distal end of inner surface 105 and may be configured such that it has
   facing surfaces defining an edge that generally extends and points towards
   the bottom jaw member 102. The tooth pair 120 may be configured to be
   sharp enough to puncture tissue in conjunction with the piercing element 117
10 described below. A pair of laterally-extending cylindrical bosses 115 located
   adjacent the distal section 112 may be provided on both sides of top jaw
   member 101, for example to be complimentary to respective surfaces on an
   applier used to apply the ligating clip.
           Bottom jaw member 102 comprises a distal section 113 that may have
15 a piercing feature and a latching feature configured to mate with the latching
   feature of the top jaw member 101. Distal section 113 comprises a piercing
   element 117 having a tip 117A disposed opposite latch 123. The piercing
   element 117 is generally configured such that it extends to a narrow portion or
   point that is facing or pointed towards the top jaw member 101. The piercing
20 element 117 may be configured to be sharp enough to puncture tissue during
   normal use. A pair of laterally-extending cylindrical bosses 116 located
   adjacent the distal section 113 are provided on both sides of bottom jaw
   member 102, for example to be complimentary to respective surfaces on an
   applier used to apply the ligating clip.
25         In one example, the piercing element 117 is narrowed or pointed with a
   tip sufficient to puncture tissue during normal use. The piercing element may
   be a pointed bevel, cone, trapezoid shape or other shape providing the
   desired tip geometry. The geometry may have two or more faces or sides in
   which an inclusive angle of opposing faces or sides is 1500 or less (for
30 example, as shown in FIGS. 14-18), but an angle of 900 or less increases the
   ease with which tissue can be punctured with the piercing element, while an
   angle of 600 or less provides an even sharper piercing element. For example,
   any one, two or three of the angles al, a2, and a3 (FIGS. 6-8) can be
   configured to have the angles recited. Additionally, the piercing element may
                                            19

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   have a durometer of at least 50 Shore D in order to provide a sufficient
   hardness to puncture the tissue. Other piercing element configurations can
   also be used to produce a tip sufficient to puncture tissue during normal use.
   The piercing element 117 may be an integral part of the whole clip structure
 5 as discussed in these examples such that the ligation clip 100 is only made
   from a single material. Alternatively (not shown), to further strengthen and
   provide a more effective and durable piercing element 117, it may be
   constructed from different materials including but not limited to metals like
   stainless steel, titanium, nickel titanium, gold, platinum, cobalt, chromium, and
10 the like, or non metal including plastics with increased hardness properties as
   compared to the material used to make the remaining clip. The piercing
   element 117 may be assembled or connected to the distal section of the
   bottom jaw 102 (not shown) by means of methods commonly known in the art
   such as adhesive bonding, insert molding, ultrasonic welding, hot melt, and
15 the like. Yet another alternative means to strengthen the structure of the
   piercing element 117 is by coating or plating the surface (not shown) with a
   metallic material commonly known in the art such as gold, platinum, chrome,
   nickel, or the like or with a harder grade of polymeric material using processes
   also commonly known in the art.
20         Inner surfaces 105 and 107 may further comprise a plurality of teeth
   114. It should be noted that the teeth 114 and 111 (FIGS. 1-3C) may be
   configured with other orientations and shapes that enable effective
   securement of a vessel or tissue when the clip is closed in the locked position.
   These alternative configurations may include, but are not limited to, domes,
25 pyramids, bosses and notches, tongue(s) and groove(s), similar features,
   and/or combinations thereof. Additionally, as noted herein, any one tooth (or
   more than one tooth) can be configured such that a bisecting axis is oriented
   at an angle to the surface supporting the tooth (or at an angle to a line running
   parallel to the surface supporting the tooth). In the example illustrated, all
30 (and therefore a majority) of the teeth have their bisecting axes (for example
   114A in FIG. 7) angled in a proximal direction, or in such a direction that
   reduces the possibility of tissue moving distally or outward of the clip or along
   a surface of a jaw in a direction that would lead to the tissue moving outward
   of the clip.
                                            20

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
           In addition to variations or modifications in individual teeth, frequency
   or spacing or other relative attributes of multiple teeth can be selected as
   desired. For example, the number per unit length of teeth 114 on the bottom
   jaw 102 is relatively uniform, while that on the top jaw 101 varies over the
 5 length of the top jaw. In another example, each tooth can extend the entire
   width of the jaw, or beyond, or can extend less than the entire width. For
   example of less than the entire width, a tooth can extend only half way across
   the width of the jaw. Moreover, every other or every second tooth can extend
   halfway inward from one side while the remaining teeth on a jaw can extend
10 halfway inward from the other side (alternating). Additionally, on the top jaw,
   the linear density is higher at a proximal portion of the jaw than at a distal
   portion of the jaw. Furthermore, the teeth configuration (i.e. any feature
   described herein with respect to a given tooth or combination of teeth) on one
   jaw can be different than the corresponding teeth configuration on the
15 immediately adjacent portion of the opposite jaw, when the jaws are closed.
   For example, as depicted in FIG. 3C and FIG. 4, there are at least two teeth
   on the top jaw that do not have a corresponding tooth from the lower jaw
   extending between them. As seen in FIG. 4 in the present example, there are
   seven teeth in the top jaw that do not have any teeth extending between them
20 from the bottom jaw.
           In the example illustrated, one jaw has a length of surface without any
   teeth and the other jaw has a similar length of surface facing it that has two or
   more teeth. As noted above in the present example, the bottom jaw has a
   length of surface 107A (FIG. 1) where the facing surface on the top jaw has
25 seven teeth. In this configuration, the bare surface 107A is configured to
   allow tissue to move along it relatively freely relative to the opposite surfaces
   on the other jaw. For example, where the heel 121 is closely adjacent the
   bottom jaw, and the bare surface 107A, movement of the top jaw and the
   adjacent teeth on the heel 121 and grab and move tissue into the cavity
30 adjacent the inner surface 109 while the tissue slides along the surface 107A.
   As the heel 121 moves into the cavity, other teeth on the top jaw move into
   position opposite the surface 107A. This configuration promotes grabbing
   and pulling the tissue into the cavity.
                                           21

   WO 2013/059826                                                     PCT/US2012/061384
           Also in the example illustrated, the smooth surface 107A is bordered
   on both sides (proximally and distally) by one or more teeth. The length of the
   smooth surface 107A is greater than at least twice the smallest spacing
   between adjacent teeth on the clip. Additionally, when the jaws are facing
 5 each other, such as when the clip is closed, at least two teeth from the top jaw
   are positioned opposite the smooth surface 107A without an intervening tooth
   on the bottom jaw. Other configurations are also possible.
           It should also be noted that while cylindrical bosses 115 and 116 are
   depicted as externally projecting features in these figures, it is also
10 contemplated that low-profile bosses or recesses such as those described in
   U.S. Pat. Publication US20090088783, incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety, may be employed to facilitate placement of clips such as those
   described herein about a target vessel when used with a complementary
   applier.
15         FIG. 4 is a side view of an example of the inventions depicted in FIGS.
   1-3 in the closed position. When ligation clip 100 is closed, piercing element
   117 is fully embedded within channel 124 of shroud 118, forming atraumatic
   surface 125. Additionally, the tip 117A is at or below (as viewed in FIG. 4) a
   tangent line 11 8A to the shroud 118 (see FIG.4). In this manner the tip of the
20 piercing element 117 is not exposed to adjacent tissue that may potentially be
   lacerated, cut, severed, or serrated by the sharp edges and/or points of the
   piercing element 117. Piercing element 117 embedded within channel 124
   also serves as a locking feature that prevents or limits latch 131 from sliding
   or disengaging sideways or laterally during normal operation. In addition to
25 the atraumatic surface 125, the remaining external surfaces of ligation clip
   100 do not have any sufficiently sharp or pointed features that may catch,
   tear, or lacerate surrounding tissues.
           Closing of the jaw members 101 and 102 is accomplished with the aid
   of a clip applier ( FIGS. 14-18, the same reference numerals are applied to
30 parts that are the same as previously described herein), where the pair of
   cylindrical bosses 115 and 116 of clip 100A are mounted in the applier jaws
   (132 and 133). As the jaw members 101 and 102 are closed to a position
   where the tip of the piercing element 117 comes in contact with the adjacent
   portion of the groove 119 (see also FIG. 16), the proximal side of bottom jaw
                                           22

   WO 2013/059826                                                     PCT/US2012/061384
   member 102 and the adjacent hinge section 103A (leg 103V) are forced to
   deflect outward as depicted by the imaginary line 126 (FIG. 4), storing energy
   into the deflected segment. The distance between the centerline 115A of the
   cylindrical boss 115, and applier jaw imaginary arc-shaped path 128 controls
 5 the amount of outward deflection 126. The imaginary path 128 is the track
   followed by the cylindrical boss 115 and 116 when they are held in the applier
   jaws, thus the top jaw member 101 shifts proximally, causing the proximal
   side of bottom jaw member 102 and the adjacent hinge section 103A to
   deflect outward (compare FIGS. 16 and 17). As the applier further closes the
10 clip 1O0A, the distal side of bottom jaw member 102 deflects outward as
   depicted by the imaginary line 127 (compare FIGS. 16 and 17). The
   deflection is a result of the piercing element 117 sliding outwards or distally
   along the groove 119. Once the clip is closed and the mating latches 131 and
   123 are engaged, the inner, proximally-facing surface or edge 11 7B (FIG. 1)
15 at the distal portion of the bottom jaw member 102 rests in or is embedded
   within the proximally-facing groove 124, preventing or limiting the latch 131
   from sliding or disengaging sideways or laterally during normal operation.
   Upon release of cylindrical bosses 115 and 116 from the applier jaws 132 and
   133, the proximal side of the bottom jaw member 102 which had deflected
20 outward during closing of the applier jaws (as shown by the imaginary line
   126) deflects distally as the stored energy of the deflected segment is
   simultaneously released. The final closed and locked state of clip 100 after full
   release from the applier jaws results in the top jaw member 101 shifted
   distally with the mating latches 131 and 123 fully engaged as shown in FIG. 4.
25          FIG. 5 is a series of schematics (5A-5D) depicting the placement and
   closure of the ligation clip 100 about a target vessel 129, and FIGS. 14-18
   show the use of a ligation clip in conjunction with an applier for closing the
   ligation clip. In the illustrated example, target vessel 129 further comprises
   extraneous tissue 130 (e.g. connective tissue, fat, fibrous scar tissue, etc.)
30 that would traditionally hinder or prevent the closure of ligation clips known in
   the art. FIG. 14 shows a fully open clip positioned in the jaws of an applier
   and FIG. 5A shows the ligation clip 100 approximated about the target vessel
   129 in a fully-open configuration. The heel 121 at a proximal portion of the
   first jaw is spaced apart from the second jaw 102, but closer to the second jaw
                                            23

   WO 2013/059826                                                      PCT/US2012/061384
   than a distal portion of the first jaw, for example that portion including bosses
   115. Upon closing the top jaw member 101 and bottom jaw member 102, the
   teeth 114 on the inner surfaces 105 and 107 engage and grip the surface of
   target vessel 129. FIG. 5B and FIG. 15 show ligation clip 100 in a semi
 5 closed state. The teeth 114 on inner surface 107 of jaw member 102 secure
   the base of the target vessel 129 in place while the pivoting motion of jaw
   member 101 about hinge section 103 (or 103A in FIGS. 14-18) causes the
   teeth 114 disposed around the heel 121 on inner surface 105 to engage
   against and pull the upper surface of target vessel 129 towards the inner
10 surface 109 of hinge section 103/103A. The heel 121 and the teeth on the
   surface thereof move proximally the tissue along the smooth surface 107A of
   the bottom jaw member 102. The piercing element 117 begins to engage
   extraneous tissue 130. FIG. 5C and FIGS. 16-17 show the ligation clip 100 in
   an almost completely closed state. The teeth 114 disposed around the heel
15 121 on inner surface 105 have pulled the target vessel 129 towards inner
   surface 109 of hinge section 103/103A to the extent that the teeth 111
   resident on inner surface 109 have engaged the target vessel 129 and
   secured the target vessel 129 within hinge section 103/103A. In this position,
   piercing element 117 has penetrated extraneous tissue 120, enabling the
20 engagement of latch 131 and latch 123 as ligation clip 100 is closed. FIG. 17
   shows the distal section 113 of the second jaw 102 flexing outward or distally,
   as well as a portion of the hinge section 103 flexing proximally. FIG. 5D
   depicts ligation clip 100 fully closed about target vessel 129, with piercing
   element 117 fully penetrating the extraneous tissue 130. FIG. 18 shows the
25 ligation clip 100 fully closed, with the heel 121 fully within the cavity and the
   hinge section 103A fully flexed (hinge section 103 would be analogous) and
   the latching mechanism 123 and 131 fully engaged.
           In the clip shown in FIGS. 14-18, hinge section 103 in this example is
   asymmetric relative to the jaws. As see most clearly in FIG. 18, when
30 positioned relative to the adjacent connection portions between the hinge
   section and the jaws and the jaws are closed, the hinge section is asymmetric
   relative to a curving interface line at the location that the curving interface line
   intersects the hinge section 103. The curving interface line is defined as aboe
   with respect to FIGS. 3A-3C. In the example shown in FIG. 18, there is more
                                             24

   WO 2013/059826                                                       PCT/US2012/061384
   of the opening 108 on the top jaw side than on the bottom jaw side.
   Additionally, in the present example, the hinge section 103 separates the clip
   into two jaws and if a vertical line similar to the vertical line 200 in FIG. 4
   divides the clip when in the closed configuration in half longitudinally, then the
 5 jaw sections adjacent the hinge section are unequal in mass, and the top jaw
   section in the example of FIG. 3 (part of top jaw 101) is lighter in mass than
   the bottom jaw section (part of bottom jaw 102).
          The ligation clip 100 may be made of a metallic or non-metallic
   biocompatible material including, but not limited to stainless steel, titanium,
10 acetal, polyethylene, nylon, peek, Teflon, polycarbonate, alloys or
   combination thereof, and the like suitable for a long term or permanent
   implant. Polymer materials may be non-resorbable (i.e. permanent implant)
   or resorbable (i.e. degrades over a period of time).
          The ligation clip 100 may be made in various sizes to allow ligation of
15 different sizes of vessel or tissue. All design features, clip functionality, and
   methods of use and operation described within the details of this disclosure
   remain applicable to the other sizes. These various sizes of ligation clips can
   respectively be used to ligate a variety of vessel sized, with the largest
   diameter of about 16mm.
20         Having thus described several exemplary implementations, it will be
   apparent that various alterations and modifications can be made without
   departing from the concepts discussed herein. Such alterations and
   modifications, though not expressly described above, are nonetheless
   intended and implied to be within the spirit and scope of the inventions.
25 Accordingly, the foregoing description is intended to be illustrative only.
                                            25

   Claims
   1.       A ligation clip comprising:
            first and second jaw members having proximal portions and distal portions, the first and
 5 second jaw members extending generally longitudinally and movably coupled to each other by a
   hinge portion at the proximal portions;
            a tip member on the distal portion of the first jaw member; and
            a hook member on the distal portion of the second jaw member, the hook member being
   configured to deflect around the tip member to secure the ligation clip in a closed configuration,
 0          wherein the first jaw member includes an inner convex segment extending between the
   tip member and the hinge portion, the second jaw member includes an inner concave segment
   extending between the hook member and the hinge portion, the inner concave segment is
   configured to receive the inner convex segment in the closed configuration, and the first jaw
   member includes a convex outer surface.
 5 2.       The ligation clip of claim 1, wherein the convex outer surface extends at least a quarter of
   a length of the first jaw member.
   3.       The ligation clip of claim 2, wherein the convex outer surface extends at least half of a
   length of the first jaw member.
   4.       The ligation clip of claim 1, wherein the first jaw member further includes a concave
-o outer surface.
   5.       The ligation clip of claim 1, wherein the second jaw member includes a convex outer
   surface.
   6.       The ligation clip of claim 1, further comprising at least one tooth positioned on the inner
   convex segment.
25 7.       The ligation clip of claim 6, wherein the at least one tooth includes a plurality of teeth.
   8.       The ligation clip of claim 1, further comprising:
            at least one first boss positioned on the first jaw member; and
                                                       26

            at least one second boss positioned on the second jaw member.
   9.       A ligation clip comprising:
            first and second jaw members having proximal portions and distal portions, the first and
   second jaw members extending generally longitudinally and movably coupled to each other by a
 5 hinge portion at the proximal portions;
            a tip member on the distal portion of the first jaw member;
            a hook member on the distal portion of the second jaw member, the hook member being
   configured to deflect around the tip member to secure the ligation clip in a closed configuration;
   and
 0          at least one tooth positioned on the second jaw member,
            wherein the first jaw member includes a first convex segment between the tip member
   and the hinge portion, the second jaw member includes a second convex segment between the
   hook member and the hinge portion, the at least one tooth is positioned on the second convex
   segment, and the first and second convex segments are configured to pinch a proximal portion of
 5 tissue while the distal portions are spaced apart.
    10.     The ligation clip of claim 9, wherein the at least one tooth includes a plurality of teeth
   positioned on the second convex segment.
    11.     The ligation clip of claim 9, further comprising at least one tooth positioned on the first
   jaw member.
20  12.     The ligation clip of claim 11, wherein the at least one tooth on the first jaw member and
   the at least one tooth on the second jaw member extend at an angle toward the hinge portion.
    13.     The ligation clip of claim 9, wherein the first jaw member comprises a convex outer
   surface extending between the hinge portion and the tip member.
    14.     The ligation clip of claim 13, wherein the first jaw member comprises a concave outer
25 surface extending between the hinge portion and the tip member.
    15.     The ligation clip of claim 9, further comprising:
            at least one first boss positioned on the first jaw member; and
                                                       27

            at least one second boss positioned on the second jaw member.
   16.      A method of applying a ligation clip to a tissue, the ligation clip including first and
   second jaw members, each of the first and second jaw members having a proximal portion and a
   distal portion, the first and second jaw members being coupled at the proximal portions with a
 5 hinge portion, the method comprising:
            positioning the ligation clip in an open configuration, such that the distal portions of the
   first and second jaw members are spaced apart and the tissue is received between the first and
   second jaw members;
            pivoting at least one of the first and second jaw members at the hinge portion; and
 0          pulling a proximal portion of the tissue with the first jaw member proximally along the
   second jaw member toward the hinge portion.
   17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the pulling is performed with a convex segment of the
   first jaw member.
   18.      The method of claim 17, further comprising receiving the convex segment of the first jaw
 5 member into a concave segment of the second jaw member.
   19.      The method of claim 16, wherein the pulling is performed with at least one tooth on the
   first jaw member.
   20.      The method of claim 16, further comprising locking the first and second jaw members in
   a closed configuration with a first locking member on the first jaw member and a second jaw
20 member on the second jaw member.
                                                       28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
