METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR AFFECTING THE FLAVOR AND
AROMA PROFILE OF CONSUMABLES
ABSTRACT
This document relates to food products containing highly conjugated heterocyclic rings
complexed to an iron ion and one or more flavour precursors, and using such food products to
modulate the flavour and/or aroma profile of other foods. The food products described herein can
be prepared in various ways and can be formulated to be free of animal products.

       METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR AFFECTING THE
         FLAVOR AND AROMA PROFILE OF CONSUMABLES
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims priority to U.S. Application Serial No. 13/941,211, filed
   July 12, 2013, U.S. Application Serial No. 61/908,634, filed November 25, 2013, and to
   U.S. Application Serial No. 61/751,816, filed January 11, 2013, and is related to the
 5 following co-pending patent applications: Application Serial No. PCT/US 12/46560;
   Application Serial No PCT/US 12/46552; Application Serial No. 61,876,676, filed
   September 11, 2013; and Application Serial No. 61/751,818, filed January 11, 2013, all
   of which are incorporated herein by reference.
10                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
           This invention relates to food products and more particularly, to food products
   that include a highly conjugated heterocyclic ring complexed to iron such as a heme
   cofactor and one or more flavor precursor molecules.
15                                        BACKGROUND
           Food is any substance that is either eaten or drunk by any animal, including
   humans, for nutrition or pleasure. It is usually of plant or animal origin, and can contain
   essential nutrients, such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals. The
   substance is ingested by an organism and assimilated by the organism's cells in an effort
20 to produce energy, maintain life, or stimulate growth.
           Food typically has its origin in a photosynthetic organism, such as a plant. Some
   food is obtained directly from plants, but even animals that are used as food sources are
   raised by feeding them food which is typically derived from plants.
           In most cases, the plant or animal food source is fractionated into a variety of
25 different portions, depending upon the purpose of the food. Often, certain portions of the
   plant, such as the seeds or fruits, are more highly prized by humans than others and these
                                                  1

   are selected for human consumption, while other less desirable portions, such as the
   stalks of grasses, are typically used for feeding animals.
            Current plant-based meat substitutes have largely failed to cause a shift to a
   vegetarian diet. Meat substitute compositions are typically extruded soy/grain mixtures
 5 which largely fail to replicate the experience of cooking and eating meat. Common
   limitations of plant-based meat substitute products are a texture and mouth-feel that are
   more homogenous than that of equivalent meat products. Furthermore, as these products
   must largely be sold pre-cooked, with artificial flavors and aromas pre-incorporated, they
   fail to replicate the aromas, flavors, and other key features, such as texture and mouth
10 feel, associated with cooking or cooked meat. As a result, these products appeal largely
   to a limited consumer base that is already committed to vegetarianism/veganism, but
   have failed to appeal to the larger consumer segment accustomed to eating meat. It
   would be useful to have improved plant-based meat substitutes which better replicate the
   aromas and flavors of meat, particularly during and/or after cooking.
15                                          SUMMARY
            Provided herein are methods and compositions for modulating the flavor and/or
   aroma profile of consumable food products, including animal- or non-animal (e.g., plant)
   based food products, or mixtures of animal- and non-animal-based food products. In
   some embodiments, the methods and compositions are useful for modulating the flavor
?0 and/or aroma profile of a consumable food product during and/or after the cooking
   process. In some embodiments, the methods and compositions are used to generate one
   or more chemical compounds that modulate the flavor and/or aroma profile of the
   consumable food product during and/or after the cooking process.
            As provided herein, and without being bound by theory, certain characteristic
25 meaty flavors and/or aromas (e.g., beefy, bacony, umami, savory, bloody, brothy, gravy,
   metallic, bouillon-like; see Tables 2, 7, and 11), including one or more specific chemical
   compounds associated with the same (see Tables 3, 8, 9, 12, 14, 16, or 17), are believed
   to be produced during the cooking process of a consumable food product by chemical
   reaction of one or more flavor precursor molecules or compositions catalyzed by the
                                                  2

   presence of a highly conjugated heterocyclic ring complexed to an iron ion (e.g., a heme
   moiety; or a porphyrin; a porphyrinogen; a corrin; a corrinoid; a chlorin; a
   bacteriochorophyll; a corphin; a chlorophyllin; a bacteriochlorin; or an isobacteriochlorin
   moiety complexed to an iron ion). Such highly conjugated heterocycylic moieties
 5 include heterocyclic aromatic rings composed of one or more (2, 3, or 4 more ) pyrrole,
   pyrrole-like, and/or pyrroline subunits. The highly conjugated heterocyclic ring
   complexed to an iron ion is referred to herein as an iron complex. In some embodiments,
   the heme moiety can be a heme cofactor such as a heme moiety bound to a protein; a
   heme moiety bound to a non-proteinaceous polymer; a heme moiety bound to a solid
10 support; or a heme moiety encapsulated in a liposome. In some embodiments, the flavors
   and/or aromas are not generated in the absence of the iron complex (e.g., in the absence
   of a ferrous chlorin) or are not generated in the absence of a heme-cofactor (e.g., in the
   absence of a heme-containing protein). Accordingly, as described herein, the iron
   complexes such as isolated chlorin-iron complexes or heme-cofactors (e.g., heme
15 containing proteins) can be used to generate meaty flavors and/or aromas in a variety of
   food products, such as during the cooking process.
            Combining one or more iron complexes such as a heme-cofactor (e.g., a heme
   containing protein, including, for example a plant-derived heme protein such as a plant
   leghemoglobin (legH)), with one or more flavor precursor molecules or compositions
?0 (see, e.g., Table 1 or Table 13) can generate or provide a range of savory and meaty
   aromas and tastes (see, e.g., Tables 2, 7, and/or 11) in a cooked consumable food product.
   Flavor precursor molecules or compositions can be added to the uncooked food product
   in purified form and/or can be derived from ingredients in the uncooked consumable food
   product that contain and/or are enriched with one or more of the particular flavor
25 precursors or compositions, including, for example, yeast extract, vegetable oil, corn oil,
   soybean oil, palm fruit oil, palm kernel oil, safflower oil, flaxseed oil, rice bran oil,
   cottonseed oil, olive oil, canola oil, sunflower oil, coconut oil, mango oil, or an algal oil.
   The resultant flavor and/or aroma profile can be modulated by the type and concentration
   of the flavor precursors, the pH of the reaction, the length of cooking, the type and
30 amount of iron complex (e.g., a heme cofactor such as a heme-containing protein), the
                                                  3

   temperature of the reaction, and the amount of water activity in the product, among other
   factors.
            One or more flavor precursor molecules or compositions can be added along with
   a iron complex (e.g., ferrous chlorophyllin or a heme cofactor such as a heme-containing
 5 protein), to an uncooked food product, before and/or during the cooking process, to give
   the cooked consumable food product a particular meaty taste and smell, for example, the
   taste and smell of beef, bacon, pork, lamb, or chicken. Consumable food products can be
   animal or non-animal based (e.g., plant) food products, or combinations of an animal and
   non-animal based food product. For example, a plant based veggie burger or an animal
10 based burger, such as a chicken burger, can be modified with the compositions and
   methods of the present disclosure to result in a burger having a cooked flavor and/or
   aroma profile that is more meat like, e.g., beef-like, lamb-like, pork-like, turkey-like,
   duck-like, deer-like, yak-like, bison-like or other desirable meat flavor.
            Food products for use in the present disclosure include those that have an iron
15 complex (e.g., a heme cofactor such as a heme-containing protein), and one or more
   flavor precursor molecules included therein. The iron-complex such as a heme cofactor
   (e.g., a heme-containing protein) and the one or more flavor precursor molecules can be
   homogenously or heterogeneously included in the food products. A heme protein can be
   isolated and purified prior to inclusion in the food product. Non-limiting examples of
?0 consumable food products which can include an iron complex such as a heme-cofactor
   (e.g., a heme-containing protein) and one or more flavor precursor molecules include
   animal-based or non-animal (e.g., plant-based), or combinations of animal-based and
   non-animal-based, food products in the form of hot dogs, burgers, ground meat, sausages,
   steaks, filets, roasts, breasts, thighs, wings, meatballs, meatloaf, bacon, strips, fingers,
25 nuggets, cutlets, or cubes.
            Consumable food products for use in the present disclosure can be flavor additive
   compositions, e.g., for addition to another consumable food product before, during, or
   after its cooking process. A flavor additive composition can include an iron complex
   such as a heme-cofactor (e.g., a heme-containing protein), and one or more flavor
30 precursors.
                                                    4

           A flavor additive composition can include a heme protein, e.g., an isolated and
   purified heme protein; such a flavor additive composition can be used to modulate the
   flavor and/or aroma profile of a consumable food product that comprises one or more
   flavor precursor molecules or compositions. A flavor additive composition can include
 5 one or more flavor precursor molecules or compositions; such a flavor additive
   composition can be used to modulate the flavor and/or aroma profile of a consumable
   food product that comprises the heme protein, e.g., an isolated and purified heme protein.
           A flavor additive composition can be in the form, of but not limited to, soup or
   stew bases, bouillon, e.g., powder or cubes, flavor packets, or seasoning packets or
10 shakers. Such flavor additive compositions can be used to modulate the flavor and/or
   aroma profile for a variety of consumable food products, and can be added to a
   consumable food product before, during, or after cooking of the consumable food
   product.
           In some embodiments, a flavor additive composition such as one including an
15 iron complex (e.g., ferrous chlorin or a heme protein) and one or more flavor precursors
   can be reacted (e.g., in vitro) with heating to generate a particular flavor and/or aroma
   profile of interest and the resultant product mixture can be added to the consumable food
   product of interest, which can then be eaten as-is or can be additionally modified, e.g., by
   additional cooking. In some embodiments, the iron complex can be removed from the
?o resultant product mixture before adding the product mixture to the consumable food
   product of interest. For example, the iron complex can be removed from the product
   mixture using chromatographic techniques such as column chromatography, e.g., a
   column containing heme or iron-chlorin.
           In some embodiments, the iron complex such as a heme-cofactor, e.g., a heme
25 protein, and the one or more flavor precursor flavor additive compositions can be soy
   free, wheat-free, yeast-free, MSG-free, and free of protein hydrolysis products, and can
   taste meaty, highly savory, and without off odors or flavors.
           In one aspect, this document features a food product that includes an iron complex
   such as a heme moiety, or a porphyrin, a porphyrinogen, a corrin, a corrinoid, a chlorin, a
30 bacteriochorophyll, a corphin, a chlorophyllin, a bacteriochlorin, or an isobacteriochlorin
                                                  5

   moiety complexed to an iron ion and one or more flavor precursor molecules selected
   from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate,
   fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin,
   glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, inosine
 5 monophosphate (IMP), guanosine monophosphate (GMP), pyrazine, adenosine
   monophosphate (AMP), lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine,
   pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, corn oil, soybean oil, palm fruit oil, palm kernel
   oil, safflower oil, flaxseed oil, rice bran oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower oil, canola oil, olive
   oil, a free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine,
10 threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate,
   glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid
   derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone. The heme
   moiety can be a heme-containing protein, a heme moiety bound to a non-peptidic
   polymer; or a heme moiety bound to a solid support. The heme-containing protein can be
15 a plant, mammalian, a yeast or filamentous fungi, or bacterial heme-containing protein.
   The food product can include two to one hundred, two to fifty flavor precursors, two to
   forty flavor precursors, two to thirty-five flavor precursors, two to ten flavor precursors,
   or two to six flavor precursors. In some embodiments, the one or more flavor precursor
   molecules are selected from the group consisting of glucose, ribose, cysteine, a cysteine
?0 derivative, thiamine, alanine, methionine, lysine, a lysine derivative, glutamic acid, a
   glutamic acid derivative, IMP, GMP, lactic acid, maltodextrin, creatine, alanine, arginine,
   asparagine, aspartate, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine,
   methionine, phenylalanine, proline, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine, valine, linoleic acid,
   and mixtures thereof. The heme-containing protein can be a non-symbiotic hemoglobin
25 or a leghemoglobin (e.g., a plant leghemoglobin such as one from soybean, alfalfa, lupin,
   pea, cow pea, or lupin). The heme-containing protein can include an amino acid sequence
   having at least 80% sequence identity to a polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NOs:1-26.
   The heme-containing protein can be isolated and purified. The food product further can
   include a food-grade oil, a seasoning agent, a flavoring agent, a protein, a protein
30 concentrate, an emulsifier, a gelling agent, or a fiber. The food product can be a meat
                                                    6

   substitute, a soup base, stew base, snack food, bouillon powder, bouillon cube, a flavor
   packet, or a frozen food product. Any of the food products can be free of animal
   products. The food product can be sealed within a packet or shaker.
            This document also features a method for producing a flavor compound. The
 5 method can include combining an iron complex (e.g., a heme moiety, a porphyrin, a
   porphyrinogen, a corrin, a corrinoid, a chlorin, a bacteriochorophyll, a corphin, a
   chlorophyllin, a bacteriochlorin, or an isobacteriochlorin complexed to an iron) and one
   or more flavor precursor molecules to form a mixture, the one or more flavor precursor
   molecules selected from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, arabinose, ribose
10 glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose,
   sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a
   lecithin, inosine, inosine monophosphate (IMP), guanosine monophosphate (GMP),
   pyrazine, adenosine monophosphate (AMP), lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid,
   thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, corn oil, soybean oil, palm
15 fruit oil, palm kernel oil, safflower oil, flaxseed oil, rice bran oil, cottonseed oil, canola
   oil, olive oil, sunflower oil, flaxseed oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid,
   cysteine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan,
   valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine,
   proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a
?0 malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone; and heating the mixture to form one or more
   flavor compounds selected from the group consisting of phenylacetaldehyde, 1-octen-3
   one, 2-n-heptylfuran, 2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde,
   butyrolactone, 2-undecenal, pyrazine, methyl-, furfural, 2-decanone, pyrrole, 1-octen-3
   ol, 2-acetylthiazole, (E)-2-octenal, decanal, benzaldehyde, (E)-2-nonenal, pyrazine, 1
25 hexanol, 1-heptanol, dimethyl trisulfide, 2-nonanone, 2-pentanone, 2-heptanone, 2,3
   butanedione, heptanal, nonanal, 2-octanone, 1-octanol, 3-ethylcyclopentanone, 3-octen-2
   one, (E,E)-2,4-heptadienal, (Z)-2-heptenal, 2-heptanone, 6-methyl-, (Z)-4-heptenal,
   (E,Z)-2,6-nonadienal, 3-methyl-2-butenal, 2-pentyl-furan, thiazole, (E, E)-2,4
   decadienal,, hexanoic acid, 1-ethyl-5-methylcyclopentene, (E,E)-2,4-nonadienal, (Z)-2
30 decenal, dihydro-5-pentyl-2(3H)-furanone, trans-3-nonen-2-one, (E,E)-3,5-octadien-2
                                                   7

   one, (Z)-2-octen-1-ol, 5-ethyldihydro-2(3H)-furanone, 2-butenal, 1-penten-3-ol, (E)-2
   hexenal, formic acid, heptyl ester, 2-pentyl-thiophene, (Z)-2-nonenal, 2-hexyl-thiophene,
   (E)-2-decenal, 2-ethyl-5-methyl-pyrazine, 3-ethyl-2,5-dimethyl-pyrazine, 2-ethyl-1
   hexanol, thiophene, 2-methyl-furan, pyridine, butanal, 2-ethyl-furan, 3-methyl-butanal,
 5 trichloromethane, 2-methyl-butanal, methacrolein, 2-methyl-propanal, propanal,
   acetaldehyde, 2-propyl-furan, dihydro-5-propyl-2(3H)- furanone, 1,3-hexadiene, 4
   decyne, pentanal, 1-propanol, heptanoic acid, trimethyl-ethanethiol, , 1-butanol, 1
   penten-3-one, dimethyl sulfide, 2-ethyl furan, 2-pentyl-thiophene, 2-propenal, 2-tridecen
   1-ol, 4-octene, 2-methyl thiazole,, methyl-pyrazine, 2-butanone, 2-pentyl-furan, 2
10 methyl-propanal, butyrolactone,, 3-methyl-butanal, methyl-thiirane, 2-hexyl-furan,
   butanal,, 2-methyl-butanal, 2-methyl-furan, furan, octanal, 2-heptenal, 1-octene, formic
   acid heptyl ester, 3-pentyl-furan, and 4-penten-2-one. The heme moiety can be a heme
   containing protein, a heme moiety bound to a non-peptidic polymer; or a heme moiety
   bound to a solid support. The method can include combining cysteine, ribose, lactic acid,
15 lysine, and/or thiamine with the heme-containing protein.
           In another aspect, this document features a method for producing a flavor
   compound. The method includes combining an iron complex, such as a heme-containing
   protein, and one or more flavor precursor molecules to form a mixture, the one or more
   flavor precursor molecules selected from the group consisting of glucose, fructose,
?0 ribose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate,
   inositol, maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a
   phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, IMP, GMP, pyrazine, AMP, lactic acid, succinic acid,
   glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, corn oil, soybean
   oil, palm fruit oil, palm kernel oil, safflower oil, flaxseed oil, rice bran oil, cottonseed oil,
25 olive oil, sunflower oil, canola oil, flaxseed oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid,
   methionine, cysteine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan,
   valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine,
   proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a
   malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone; and heating the mixture to form one or more
                                                   8

   flavor compounds set forth in Tables 3, 8, or 9. For example, the flavor precursors can
   include cysteine, a sugar, and one or more other precursors.
            This document also features a method for imparting a meat like flavor (e.g., beef
   like, chicken like, pork-like, lamb-like, turkey-like, duck-like, deer-like, or bison-like) to
 5 a food product. The method includes contacting the food product with a flavoring
   composition, the flavoring composition comprising i) an iron complex, such as a heme
   moiety (e.g., a heme-containing protein); and ii) one or more flavor precursor molecules
   selected from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6
   phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose,
10 maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin,
   inosine, IMP, GMP, pyrazine, AMP, lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine,
   creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, corn oil, soybean oil, palm fruit oil, palm
   kernel oil, safflower oil, flaxseed oil, rice bran oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, sunflower oil,
   canola oil, flaxseed oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine,
15 isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine,
   histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine,
   tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a malt extract, a
   yeast extract, and a peptone; wherein after heating the food product and the flavoring
   composition together, a meat like flavor (e.g., beef-like, chicken like, pork-like, lamb
?0 like, turkey-like, duck-like, deer-like, or bison-like) is imparted to the food product. In
   some embodiments, the iron complex is removed from the food product. The flavoring
   composition further can include a seasoning agent, a flavoring agent, a protein, a protein
   concentrate, or an emulsifier. The flavoring composition can be sealed within a packet or
   shaker.
25          In another aspect, this document features a method of making a food product.
   The method includes combining an isolated heme-containing protein and one or more
   flavor precursor molecules to form a mixture, the one or more flavor precursor molecules
   selected from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6
   phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose,
30 maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin,
                                                   9

   inosine, IMP, GMP, pyrazine, AMP, lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine,
   creatine, pyrophosphate, sunflower oil, coconut oil, canola oil, flaxseed oil, mango oil, a
   free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine,
   tryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate,
 5 glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a
   protein hydrolysate, a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone; and heating the
   mixture.
            Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
10 invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can be used to practice the invention, suitable methods and materials are
   described below. All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references
   mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the
   present specification, including definitions, will control. In addition, the materials,
15 methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
            The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
   accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and
   advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from
   the claims. The word "comprising" in the claims may be replaced by "consisting
?0 essentially of' or with "consisting of," according to standard practice in patent law.
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 contains amino acid sequences of exemplary heme-containing proteins.
            FIG. 2 is a bar graph of the beefiness rating of the meat replica with or without the
   Magic Mix, both samples in triplicate with 1% w/v LegH protein. Tasters rated beefiness
25 on a scale from 1-7, with 1 being not beefy at all and 7 being exactly like ground beef.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            This document is based on methods and materials for modulating the taste and/or
   aroma profile of food products. As described herein, compositions containing one or
                                                  10

   more flavor precursors and one or more highly conjugated heterocyclic rings complexed
   to an iron (referred to herein as an iron complex) can be used to modulate the taste and/or
   aroma profile of food products. Such iron complexes include heme moieties or other
   highly conjugated heterocylic rings complexed to an iron ion (referred to as an iron
 5 complex). "Heme" refers to a prosthetic group bound to iron (Fe        or Fe ") in the center
   of a porphyrin ring. Thus, an iron complex can be a heme moiety, or a porphyrin,
   porphyrinogen, corrin, corrinoid, chlorin, bacteriochorophyll, corphin, chlorophyllin,
   bacteriochlorin, or isobacteriochlorin moiety complexed to iron ion. The heme moiety
   that can be used to modulate the taste and/or aroma profile of food products can be a
10 heme cofactor such as a heme-containing protein; a heme moiety bound to a non-peptidic
   polymer or other macromolecule such as a liposome, a polyethylene glycol, a
   carbohydrate, a polysaccharide, a cyclodextrin, a polyethylenimine, a polyacrylate, or
   derivatives thereof; a siderophore (i.e., an iron chelating compound); or a heme moiety
   bound to a solid support (e.g., beads) composed of a chromatography resin, cellulose,
15 graphite, charcoal, or diatomaceous earth.
            In some embodiments, the iron complexes catalyze some reactions and produce
   flavor precursors without heating or cooking. In some embodiments, the iron complex
   destabilizes upon heating or cooking and releases the iron, e.g., the protein is denatured,
   so flavor precursors can be generated.
?0          Suitable flavor precursors include sugars, sugar alcohols, sugar derivatives, oils
   (e.g., vegetable oils), free fatty acids, alpha-hydroxy acids, dicarboxylic acids, amino
   acids and derivatives thereof, nucleosides, nucleotides, vitamins, peptides, protein
   hydrolysates, extracts, phospholipids, lecithin, and organic molecules. Non-limiting
   examples of such flavor precursors are provided in Table 1.
25                                             TABLE 1
                                     Flavor Precursor Molecules
         Sugars, sugar alcohols, sugar acids, and sugar derivatives: glucose, fructose,
        ribose, sucrose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate,fructose-6-phosphate, fructose
         1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, molasses, maltodextrin, glycogen, galactose,
                                                   11

    lactose, ribitol, gluconic acid and glucuronic acid, amylose, amylopectin, or
    xylose
    Oils: coconut oil, mango oil, sunflower oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, rice
    bran oil, cocoa butter, palm fruit oil, palm oil, soybean oil, canola oil, corn oil,
    sesame oil, walnut oil, flaxseed, jojoba oil, castor, grapeseed oil, peanut oil, olive
    oil, algal oil, oil from bacteria or fungi
    Free fatty acids: caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, palmititic
    acid, palmitoleic acid, stearic, oleic acid, linoleic acid, alpha linolenic acid,
    gamma linolenic acid, arachidic acid, arachidonic acid, behenic acid, or erucic
    acid
    Amino acids and derivatives thereof: cysteine, cystine, a cysteine sulfoxide,
    allicin, selenocysteine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine,
    threonine, tryptophan, 5-hydroxytryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine,
    asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, or tyrosine
    Nucleosides and Nucleotides: inosine , inosine monophosphate (IMP),
    guanosine, guanoside monophosphate (GMP), adenosine, adenosine
    monophosophate (AMP)
    Vitamins: thiamine, vitamin C, Vitamin D, Vitamin B6, or Vitamin E
    Misc: phospholipid, lecithin, pyrazine, creatine, pyrophosphate
    Acids: acetic acid, alpha hydroxy acids such as lactic acid or glycolic acid,
    tricarboxylic acids such as citric acid, dicarboxylic acids such as succinic acid or
    tartaric acid
    Peptides and protein hydrolysates: glutathione, vegetable protein hydrolysates,
    soy protein hydrolysates, yeast protein hydrolysates, algal protein hydrolysatess,
    meat protein hydrolysates
    Extracts: a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone
        In some embodiments, one flavor precursor or combinations of two to one
hundred flavor precursors, two to ninety, two to eighty, two to seventy, two to sixty, or
two to fifty flavor precursors are used. For example, combinations of two to forty flavor
                                               12

   precursors, two to thirty-five flavor precursors, two to ten flavor precursors, or two to six
   flavor precursors can be used with the one or more iron complexes (e.g., heme co-factors
   such as a heme-containing proteins). For example, the one or more flavor precursors can
   be glucose, ribose, cysteine, a cysteine derivative, thiamine, lysine, a lysine derivative,
 5 glutamic acid, a glutamic acid derivative, alanine, methionine, IMP, GMP, lactic acid,
   and mixtures thereof (e.g., glucose and cysteine; cysteine and ribose; cysteine, glucose or
   ribose, and thiamine; cysteine, glucose or ribose, IMP, and GMP; cysteine, glucose or
   ribose, and lactic acid). For example, the one or more flavor precursors can be alanine,
   arginine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, histidine,
10 isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, proline, threonine, tryptophan,
   tyrosine, valine, glucose, ribose, maltodextrin, thiamine, IMP, GMP, lactic acid, and
   creatine.
           As used herein, the term "heme containing protein" can be used interchangeably
   with "heme containing polypeptide" or "heme protein" or "heme polypeptide" and
15 includes any polypeptide that can covalently or noncovalently bind a heme moiety. In
   some embodiments, the heme-containing polypeptide is a globin and can include a globin
   fold, which comprises a series of seven to nine alpha helices. Globin type proteins can be
   of any class (e.g., class I, class II, or class III), and in some embodiments, can transport or
   store oxygen. For example, a heme-containing protein can be a non-symbiotic type of
?0 hemoglobin or a leghemoglobin. A heme-containing polypeptide can be a monomer, i.e.,
   a single polypeptide chain, or can be a dimer, a trimer, tetramer, and/or higher order
   oligomers. The life-time of the oxygenated Fe2* state of a heme-containing protein can
   be similar to that of myoglobin or can exceed it by 10%, 20%, 30% 50%, 100% or more
   under conditions in which the heme-protein-containing consumable is manufactured,
25 stored, handled or prepared for consumption. The life-time of the unoxygenated Fe2
   state of a heme-containing protein can be similar to that of myoglobin or can exceed it by
   10%, 20%, 30% 50%, 100% or more under conditions in which the heme-protein
   containing consumable is manufactured, stored, handled or prepared for consumption
           Non-limiting examples of heme-containing polypeptides can include an
30 androglobin, a cytoglobin, a globin E, a globin X, a globin Y, a hemoglobin, a
                                                     13

   myoglobin, an erythrocruorin, a beta hemoglobin, an alpha hemoglobin, a protoglobin, a
   cyanoglobin, a cytoglobin, a histoglobin, a neuroglobins, a chlorocruorin, a truncated
   hemoglobin (e.g., HbN or HbO), a truncated 2/2 globin, a hemoglobin 3 (e.g., Glb3), a
   cytochrome, or a peroxidase.
 5         Heme-containing proteins that can be used in the compositions and food products
   described herein can be from mammals (e.g., farms animals such as cows, goats, sheep,
   pigs, ox, or rabbits), birds, plants, algae, fungi (e.g., yeast or filamentous fungi), ciliates,
   or bacteria. For example, a heme-containing protein can be from a mammal such as a
   farm animal (e.g., a cow, goat, sheep, pig, ox, or rabbit) or a bird such as a turkey or
10 chicken. Heme-containing proteins can be from a plant such as Nicotiana tabacum or
   Nicotiana sylvestris (tobacco); Zea mays (corn), Arabidopsis thaliana, a legume such as
   Glycine max (soybean), Cicer arietinum (garbanzo or chick pea), Pisum sativum (pea)
   varieties such as garden peas or sugar snap peas, Phaseolus vulgaris varieties of common
   beans such as green beans, black beans, navy beans, northern beans, or pinto beans,
15 Vigna unguiculatavarieties (cow peas), Vigna radiata(Mung beans), Lupinus albus
   (lupin), or Medicago sativa (alfalfa); Brassicanapus (canola); Triticum sps. (wheat,
   including wheat berries, and spelt); Gossypium hirsutum (cotton); Oryza sativa (rice);
   Zizania sps. (wild rice); Helianthus annuus (sunflower); Beta vulgaris (sugarbeet);
   Pennisetum glaucum (pearl millet); Chenopodium sp. (quinoa); Sesamum sp. (sesame);
?0 Linum usitatissimum (flax); or Hordeum vulgare (barley). Heme-containing proteins can
   be isolated from fungi such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae,Pichiapastoris,Magnaporthe
   oryzae, Fusariumgraminearum,Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, Myceliopthera
   thermophile, Kluyvera lactis, or Fusarium oxysporum. Heme-containing proteins can be
   isolated from bacteria such as Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus licheniformis,
25 Bacillus megaterium, Synechocistis sp., Aquifex aeolicus,Methylacidiphilum infernorum,
   or thermophilic bacteria such as Thermophilus. The sequences and structure of numerous
   heme-containing proteins are known. See for example, Reedy, et al., Nucleic Acids
   Research, 2008, Vol. 36, Database issue D307-D313 and the Heme Protein Database
   available on the world wide web at http://hemeprotein.info/heme.php.
                                                   14

           For example, a non-symbiotic hemoglobin can be from a plant selected from the
   group consisting of soybean, sprouted soybean, alfalfa, golden flax, black bean, black
   eyed pea, northern, garbanzo, moong bean, cowpeas, pinto beans, pod peas, quinoa,
   sesame, sunflower, wheat berries, spelt, barley, wild rice, or rice.
 5         Any of the heme-containing proteins described herein that can be used for
   producing food products can have at least 70% (e.g., at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%,
   97%, 98%, 99%, or 100%) sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of the
   corresponding wild-type heme-containing protein or fragments thereof that contain a
   heme-binding motif. For example, a heme-containing protein can have at least 70%
10 sequence identity to an amino acid sequence set forth in FIG. 1, including a non
   symbiotic hemoglobin such as that from Vigna radiata(SEQ ID NO: 1), Hordeum vulgare
   (SEQ ID NO:5), Zea mays (SEQ ID NO:13), Oryza sativa subsp. japonica (rice) (SEQ
   ID NO:14), or Arabidopsis thaliana (SEQ ID NO:15), a Hell's gate globin I such as that
   from Methylacidiphilum infernorum (SEQ ID NO:2), a flavohemoprotein such as that
15 from Aquifex aeolicus (SEQ ID NO:3), a leghemoglobin such as that from Glycine max
   (SEQ ID NO:4), Pisum sativum (SEQ ID NO:16), or Vigna unguiculata (SEQ ID
   NO: 17), a heme-dependent peroxidase such as from Magnaportheoryzae, (SEQ ID
   NO:6) or Fusariumoxysporum (SEQ ID NO:7), a cytochrome c peroxidase from
   Fusariumgraminearum (SEQ ID NO:8), a truncated hemoglobin from Chlamydomonas
?0 moewusii (SEQ ID NO:9), Tetrahymenapyriformis (SEQ ID NO:10, group I truncated),
   Paramecium caudatum (SEQ ID NO: 11, group I truncated), a hemoglobin from
   Aspergillus niger (SEQ ID NO:12), or a mammalian myoglobin protein such as the Bos
   taurus (SEQ ID NO:18) myoglobin, Sus scrofa (SEQ ID NO:19) myoglobin, Equus
   caballus (SEQ ID NO:20) myoglobin, a heme-protein from Nicotiana benthamiana(SEQ
25 ID NO:21), Bacillus subtilis (SEQ ID NO:22), Corynebacteriumglutamicum (SEQ ID
   NO:23), Synechocystis PCC6803 (SEQ ID NO:24), Synechococcus sp. PCC 7335 (SEQ
   ID NO:25), or Nostoc commune (SEQ ID NO:26).
           The percent identity between two amino acid sequences can be determined as
   follows. First, the amino acid sequences are aligned using the BLAST 2 Sequences
30 (Bl2seq) program from the stand-alone version of BLASTZ containing BLASTP version
                                                15

   2.0.14. This stand-alone version of BLASTZ can be obtained from Fish & Richardson's
   web site (e.g., www.fr.com/blast/) or the U.S. government's National Center for
   Biotechnology Information web site (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). Instructions explaining
   how to use the B12seq program can be found in the readme file accompanying BLASTZ.
 5 Bl2seq performs a comparison between two amino acid sequences using the BLASTP
   algorithm. To compare two amino acid sequences, the options of Bl2seq are set as
   follows: -i is set to a file containing the first amino acid sequence to be compared (e.g.,
   C:\seql.txt); -j is set to a file containing the second amino acid sequence to be compared
   (e.g., C:\seq2.txt); -p is set to blastp; -o is set to any desired file name (e.g., C:\output.txt);
10 and all other options are left at their default setting. For example, the following
   command can be used to generate an output file containing a comparison between two
   amino acid sequences: C:\Bl2seq -i c:\seql.txt -j c:\seq2.txt -p blastp -o c:\output.txt. If
   the two compared sequences share homology, then the designated output file will present
   those regions of homology as aligned sequences. If the two compared sequences do not
15 share homology, then the designated output file will not present aligned sequences.
   Similar procedures can be following for nucleic acid sequences except that blastn is used.
           Once aligned, the number of matches is determined by counting the number of
   positions where an identical amino acid residue is presented in both sequences. The
   percent identity is determined by dividing the number of matches by the length of the
?0 full-length polypeptide amino acid sequence followed by multiplying the resulting value
   by 100. It is noted that the percent identity value is rounded to the nearest tenth. For
   example, 78.11, 78.12, 78.13, and 78.14 is rounded down to 78.1, while 78.15, 78.16,
   78.17, 78.18, and 78.19 is rounded up to 78.2. It also is noted that the length value will
   always be an integer.
25         It will be appreciated that a number of nucleic acids can encode a polypeptide
   having a particular amino acid sequence. The degeneracy of the genetic code is well
   known to the art; i.e., for many amino acids, there is more than one nucleotide triplet that
   serves as the codon for the amino acid. For example, codons in the coding sequence for a
   given enzyme can be modified such that optimal expression in a particular species (e.g.,
30 bacteria or fungus) is obtained, using appropriate codon bias tables for that species.
                                                     16

           Heme-containing proteins can be extracted from the source material (e.g.,
   extracted from animal tissue, or plant, fungal, algal, or bacterial biomass, or from the
   culture supernatant for secreted proteins) or from a combination of source materials (e.g.,
   multiple plant species). Leghemoglobin is readily available as an unused by-product of
 5 commodity legume crops (e.g., soybean, alfalfa, or pea). The amount of leghemoglobin
   in the roots of these crops in the United States exceeds the myoglobin content of all the
   red meat consumed in the United States.
           In some embodiments, extracts of heme-containing proteins include one or more
   non-heme-containing proteins from the source material (e.g., other animal, plant, fungal,
10 algal, or bacterial proteins) or from a combination of source materials (e.g., different
   animal, plant, fungi, algae, or bacteria).
           In some embodiments, heme-containing proteins are isolated and purified from
   other components of the source material (e.g., other animal, plant, fungal, algal, or
   bacterial proteins). As used herein, the term "isolated and purified" indicates that the
15 preparation of heme-containing protein is at least 60% pure, e.g., greater than 65%, 70%,
   75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99% pure. Without being bound by theory, isolating and
   purifying proteins can allow the food products to be made with greater consistency and
   greater control over the properties of the food product as unwanted material is eliminated.
   Proteins can be separated on the basis of their molecular weight, for example, by size
?0 exclusion chromatography, ultrafiltration through membranes, or density centrifugation.
   In some embodiments, the proteins can be separated based on their surface charge, for
   example, by isoelectric precipitation, anion exchange chromatography, or cation
   exchange chromatography. Proteins also can be separated on the basis of their solubility,
   for example, by ammonium sulfate precipitation, isoelectric precipitation, surfactants,
25 detergents or solvent extraction. Proteins also can be separated by their affinity to
   another molecule, using, for example, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, reactive
   dyes, or hydroxyapatite. Affinity chromatography also can include using antibodies
   having specific binding affinity for the heme-containing protein, nickel NTA for His
   tagged recombinant proteins, lectins to bind to sugar moieties on a glycoprotein, or other
30 molecules which specifically binds the protein.
                                                 17

           Heme-containing proteins also can be recombinantly produced using polypeptide
   expression techniques (e.g., heterologous expression techniques using bacterial cells,
   insect cells, fungal cells such as yeast, plant cells such as tobacco, soybean, or
   Arabidopsis, or mammalian cells). In some cases, standard polypeptide synthesis
 5 techniques (e.g., liquid-phase polypeptide synthesis techniques or solid-phase
   polypeptide synthesis techniques) can be used to produce heme-containing proteins
   synthetically. In some cases, in vitro transcription-translation techniques can be used to
   produce heme-containing proteins.
           The protein used in the consumable may be soluble in a solution. In some
10 embodiments, the isolated and purified proteins are soluble in solution at greater than 5,
   10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 100, 150, 200, or 250g/L.
           In some embodiments, the isolated and purified protein is substantially in its
   native fold and water soluble. In some embodiments, the isolated and purified protein is
   more than 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90% in its native fold. In some embodiments, the isolated
15 and purified protein is more than 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90% water soluble.
   ModulatingFlavor and/or Aroma Profiles
           As described herein, different combinations of flavor precursors can be used with
   one or more iron complexes (e.g., a ferrous chlorin, a chlorin-iron complex, or a heme
?0 cofactor such as a heme-containing protein or heme bound to a non-peptidic polymer
   such as polyethylene glycol or to a solid support) to produce different flavor and aroma
   profiles when the flavor precursors and iron complexes are heated together (e.g., during
   cooking). The resultant flavor and/or aroma profile can be modulated by the type and
   concentration of the flavor precursors, the pH of the reaction, the length of cooking, the
25 type and amount of iron complex (e.g., a heme-cofactor such as heme-containing protein,
   heme bound to non-peptidic polymer or macromolecule, or heme bound to a solid
   support), the temperature of the reaction, and the amount of water activity in the product,
   among other factors. In embodiments in which a heme moiety is bound to a solid support
   such as cellulose or a chromatography resin, graphite, charcoal, or diatomaceous earth,
30 the solid support (e.g., beads) can be incubated with sugars and/or one or more other
                                                  18

  flavor precursors to generate flavors, and then the solid support with attached heme
  moiety can be re-used, i.e., incubated again with sugars and/or one or more other flavor
  precursors to generate flavors.
          Table 2 provides non-limiting examples of flavor types that can be generated by
5 combining one or more flavor precursors and one or more heme co-factors (e.g., heme
  containing proteins). See also Tables 7 and/or 11.
                                            TABLE 2
                                          Flavor Types
                             beef                  beef broth
                             beef dripping         cheesy
                              cold-cut deli meat   squash
                             bacon                 sharp
                             meaty                 fruity
                             brothy                floral
                             ramen                 musty
                              egg                  fried food
                             malty                  caramel
                             bready                barbeque
                              sulfur               chocolate
                              fried chicken        sweet
                             browned               potato
                             pretzel                french toast
                              grassy               breadcrust
                             bloody                mushroom
                             broccoli               chicken
                             brothy                 cumin
                             buttery               umami
                             metallic              raisin
                                                19

                              yeasty                 goaty
                              vegetable broth
           Flavor and aroma profiles are created by different chemical compounds formed
   by chemical reactions between the heme co-factor (e.g., heme-containing protein) and
   flavor precursors. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GCMS) can be used to
 5 separate and identify the different chemical compounds within a test sample. For
   example, volatile chemicals can be isolated from the head space after heating a heme
   containing protein and one or more flavor precursors.
           Table 3 provides non-limiting examples of compounds that can be produced. See
   also Tables 8, 9, 12, and/or 14.
10                                         TABLE3
                                     Compounds Produced
    phenylacetaldehyde                        2-butenal, 2-ethyl-          1,3-hexadiene
     1-octen-3-one                            acetonitrile                 4-decyne
    2-n-heptylfuran                                                        pentanal
    2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                 (E)-2-Hexenal                1 -propanol
    3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                 4-ethyl-phenol,              heptanoic acid
     1-octene                                 3-octanone                   ethanethiol
    butyrolactone                             styrene                      2-methyl-1-heptene
    2-undecenal                               furan, 3-pentyl-             (E)-4-octene
    propyl-cyclopropane                       formic acid, heptyl ester    2-methyl-2-heptene
    methyl-pyrazine                           (E)-2-Heptenal               pentanoic acid
     1-hydroxy-propanone                      6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one      nonanoic acid
    acetic acid                               n-caproic acid vinyl ester   1,3-dimethyl-benzene
    furfural                                  2-ethyl-2-hexenal
    2-decanone                                1-hepten-3-ol                toluene
                                              1-ethyl-I-methyl
    pyrrole                                   cyclopentane                 1 -butanol
                                              3-ethyl-2-methyl- 1,3
     1-octen-3-ol                             hexadiene                    2,3,3-trimethyl-pentane
    2-acetylthiazole                          2-pentyl-thiophene           isopropyl alcohol
                                                                           2,2,4,6,6-pentamethyl
    (E)-2-octenal                             (Z)-2-nonenal                heptane
    decanal                                   2-n-octylfuran               phenol
                                                 20

benzaldehyde                  2-hexyl-thiophene         1-penten-3-one
(E)-2-Nonenal                 4-cyclopentene- 1,3-dione dimethyl sulfide
pyrazine                      1-nonanol                 thiirane
 1-pentanol                   (E)-2-decenal             (E)-2-octen-1-ol
trans-2-(2-pentenyl)furan     4-ethyl-benzaldehyde      2,4-dimethyl- 1-heptene
                                                         1,3-bis(1,1
 1-hexanol                    1,7-octadien-3-ol         dimethylethyl)-benzene
 1-heptanol                   octanoic acid             heptane
dimethyl trisulfide           2-ethyl-5-methyl-pyrazine 4,7-dimethyl-undecane
                              3-ethyl-2,5-dimethyl
2-nonanone                    pyrazine                  acetophenone
2-pentanone                   1,3,5-cycloheptatriene    tridecane
                                                        thiophosphoramide, s
2-heptanone                   2-ethyl-1 -hexanol        methyl ester
2,3-butanedione               4-methyl-octanoic acid    2-methyl-thiazole
                                                        3-(1-methylethoxy)
heptanal                      m-aminophenylacetylene    propanenitrile,
                                                        2,4-bis(1,1
nonanal                       benzene                   dimethylethyl)-phenol
                                                        3-ethyl-2,2-dimethyl
2-octanone                    thiophene                 pentane
2-butanone                    2-methyl-furan            3-ethyl-pentane
octanal                       pyridine                  2,3,4-trimethyl-pentane
 1-octanol                    furan                     2,4,6-trimethyl-octane
3-ethylcyclopentanone         butanal                   2,6-dimethyl-nonane
8-methyl-1-undecene           2-ethyl-furan             2-hexyl-furan
                                                        4-methyl-5
3-octen-2-one                 carbon disulfide          thiazoleethanol
2,4-Heptadienal, (E,E)-       Furan, 2-hexyl-:2         4-penten-2-one
(Z)-2-heptenal                3-methyl-butanal          4-methylthiazole
6-methyl-2-heptanone          2-methyl-butanal          2-methyl-3-pentanone
(Z)-4-heptenal                methacrolein              2,3-pentanedione
(E,Z)-2,6-nonadienal          octane                    (E)-2-tridecen- 1 -ol
                                                        2
3-methyl-2-butenal            ethanol                   thiophenemethanamine
2-pentyl-furan                2-methyl-propanal         (Z)-2-nonenal,
thiazole                      acetone                   methyl thiolacetate
(E,E)-2,4-decadienal          propanal                  methyl ethanoate
hexanoic acid                 methyl-thiirane           isothiazole
 i-ethyl-5-methylcyclopentene acetaldehyde              3,3-dimethyl-hexane
                                 21

     (E,E)-2,4-nonadienal                      2-propenal                    4-methyl-heptane
     (Z)-2-decenal                             2-propyl-furan                2,4-dimethyl-heptane
                                               dihydro-5-propyl-2(3H)
     dihydro-5-pentyl-2(3h)-furanone           faranone                      2,3,4-trimethyl-heptane
    trans-3-nonen-2-one                        dihydro-3-(2H)-thiophenone    2-methyl-heptane
     (E,E)-3,5-octadien-2-one                  2,2,6-trimethyl-decane        2-methyl-3-furanthiol
                                                                             4-amino-1,2,5
                                               3,3'-dithiobis[2-methyl-      oxadiazole-3
     (Z)-2-octen- 1-ol                         furan                          carbonitrile
                                                                              1,2-benzisothiazol
     5-ethyldihydro-2(3h)-furanone             1-heptene                      3(2H)-one
    2-butenal                                  1,3-octadiene                 2-acetyl-propen-2-ol,
     1-penten-3-ol                             1-nonene                       1-decen-3-one
     1-(ethylthio)-2-(methylthio)-buta- 1,3
     diene
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein is heated in the presence of ground
   chicken, to increase specific volatile flavor and odorant components typically elevated in
   beef. For example, propanal, butanal, 2-ethyl-furan, heptanal, octanal, trans-2-(2
 5 pentenyl)furan, (Z)-2-heptenal, (E)-2-octenal, pyrrole, 2,4-dodecadienal, 1-octanal, (Z)-2
   decenal, or 2-undecenal can be increased in the presence of the heme-containing protein,
   which can impart a more beefy flavor to the chicken.
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein is heated in the presence of cysteine
10 and glucose or other combinations of flavor precursors to provide a different profile of
   volatile odorants than when any subset of the three components are used individually.
   Volatile flavor components that are increased under these conditions include but are not
   limited to furan, acetone, thiazole, furfural, benzaldehyde, 2-pyridinecarboxaldehyde, 5
   methyl-2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3-methyl-2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3
15 thiophenemethanol and decanol. See, e.g., Tables 8 and 9. Under these conditions,
   cysteine and glucose alone or in the presence of iron salts such as ferrous glucanate
   produced a sulfurous, odor, but addition of heme-containing proteins reduced the
                                                  22

   sulfurous odor and replaced it with flavors including but not limited to chicken broth,
   burnt mushroom, molasses, and bread.
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein is heated in the presence of cysteine
 5 and ribose to provide a different profile of volatile odorants. Heating in the presence of
   ribose created some additional compounds as compared to when a heme-containing
   protein and glucose were heated together. See Tables 8 and 9.
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorophillin or a heme
   cofactor such as a heme-containing protein) described herein can be heated in the
10 presence of thiamine and a sugar to affect the formation of 5-Thiazoleethanol, 4-methyl
   furan, 3,3'-dithiobis[2-methyl-furan, and/or 4-Methylthiazole. These compounds are
   known to be present in meat and have beefy, meaty taste notes.
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein can be heated in the presence of a
15 nucleotide such as inosine monophosphate and/or guanosine monophosphate to control
   the formation of flavor compounds such as (E)-4-octene, 2-ethyl-furan, 2-pentanone, 2,3
   butanedione, 2-methyl-thiazole, methyl-pyrazine, tridecane, (E)-2-octenal, 2
   thiopenecarboxaldehyde, and/or 3-thiopenecarboxaldehyde. These compounds are known
   to be present in meat and have a beefy, meaty, buttery, and or savory flavor notes.
?0         In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein can be heated in the presence of
   lysine, a sugar such as ribose, and cysteine to control the formation of flavor compounds
   such as dimethyl trisulfide, nonanal, 2-pentyl thiophene, 2-nonenal furfural, 1-octanol, 2
   nonenal, thiazole, 2-acetylthiazole, phenylacetaldehyde, and/or 2-acetylthiazole. These
25 compounds are known to be present in meat and some have a beefy, meaty, and or savory
   flavor.
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein can be heated in the presence of
   lactic acid, a sugar such as ribose, and cysteine to control the formation of the flavor
30 compounds nonanal, thiazole, 2-acetylthiazole, and/or 8-methyl 1-undecene. These
                                                 23

   compounds are known to be present in meat and have beefy, savory, browned, bready,
   and malty notes.
           In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein can be heated in the presence of
 5 amino acids, sugars such as glucose, ribose, and maltodextrin, lactic acid, thiamine, IMP,
   GMP, creatine, and salts such as potassium chloride and sodium chloride, to control the
   formation of flavor compounds such as 1,3-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-benzene, 2-methyl 3
   furanthiol, and/or bis(2-methyl-4,5-dihydro-3-furyl) disulfide. These compounds are
   known to be present in meat and have beefy notes. See also Table 14.
10         In some embodiments, a particular type of heme-containing protein is chosen to
   control the formation of flavor compounds. See, for example, the results of Table 9,
   which shows that the addition of different types of heme-proteins (LegH, Barley, B.
   myoglobin, or A. aeolicus) in flavor reaction mixtures containing one or more flavor
   precursor compounds results in many of the same key meat flavors, including but not
15 limited to pentanone, 3-methyl butanal, 2-methyl butanal, 2-heptenal, 1-octene, nonanal,
   2-propenal, 2-decenal, 2-nonanone, 2-octanone, 2-tridecen-1-ol, 2-octanone, 2-octenal, 4
   methyl-2-heptanone, octanal, 2-undecenal, butyrolactone, 1-octen-3-one, 3-methylheptyl
   acetate, and 2-pentyl-thiophene. These differences in flavor compounds can change the
   overall taste profile.
?0         In some embodiments, an iron complex (e.g., a ferrous chlorin or a heme-cofactor
   such as a heme-containing protein) described herein and one or more flavor precursors
   can be reacted (e.g., in vitro) with heating to generate a particular flavor and/or aroma
   profile of interest and the resultant flavor additive composition can be added to the
   consumable food product of interest, which can then be eaten as-is or can be additionally
25 modified, e.g., by additional cooking.
           In some embodiments, any undesirable flavors can be minimized by deodorizing
   with activated charcoal or by removing enzymes such as lipoxygenases (LOX), which
   can be present in trace amounts when using preparations of plant proteins, and which can
   convert unsaturated triacylglycerides (such as linoleic acid or linolenic acid) into smaller
30 and more volatile molecules. LOX are naturally present in legumes such as peas,
                                                  24

   soybeans, and peanuts, as well as rice, potatoes, and olives. When legume flours are
   fractionated into separate protein fractions, LOX can act as undesirable "time-bombs"
   that can cause undesirable flavors on aging or storage. Compositions containing plant
   proteins (e.g., from ground plant seeds) can be subjected to purification to remove LOX
 5 using, for example, an affinity resin that binds to LOX and removes it from the protein
   sample. The affinity resin can be linoleic acid, linolenic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid,
   propyl gallate, or epigalloccatechin gallate attached to a solid support such as a bead or
   resin. See, e.g., WO2013138793. In addition, depending on the protein component of
   the food product, certain combinations of antioxidants and/or LOX inhibitors can be used
10 as effective agents to minimize off-flavor or off-odor generation especially in the
   presence of fats and oils. Such compounds can include, for example, one or more of
   carotene, a-tocopherol, caffeic acid, propyl gallate, or epigallocatechin gallate.
           In some embodiments, specific flavor compounds, such as those described in
   Tables 3, 8, 9, 12, 14, 16, or 17 can be isolated and purified from the flavor additive
15 composition. These isolated and purified compounds can be used as an ingredient to
   create flavors useful to the food and fragrance industry.
           A flavor additive composition can be in the form, of but not limited to, soup or
   stew bases, bouillon, e.g., powder or cubes, flavor packets, or seasoning packets or
   shakers. Such flavor additive compositions can be used to modulate the flavor and/or
?0 aroma profile for a variety of food products, and can be added to a consumable food
   product before, during, or after cooking of the food product.
   Food Products
           Food products containing one or more flavor precursors and one or more heme
25 containing proteins can be used as a base for formulating a variety of additional food
   products, including meat substitutes, soup bases, stew bases, snack foods, bouillon
   powders, bouillon cubes, flavor packets, or frozen food products. Meat substitutes can be
   formulated, for example, as hot dogs, burgers, ground meat, sausages, steaks, filets,
   roasts, breasts, thighs, wings, meatballs, meatloaf, bacon, strips, fingers, nuggets, cutlets,
30 or cubes.
                                                 25

           In addition, food products described herein can be used to modulate the taste
   and/or aroma profile of other food products (e.g., meat replicas, meat substitutes, tofu,
   mock duck or other gluten based vegetable product, textured vegetable protein such as
   textured soy protein, pork, fish, lamb, or poultry products such as chicken or turkey
 5 products) and can be applied to the other food product before or during cooking. Using
   the food products described herein can provide a particular meaty taste and smell, for
   example, the taste and smell of beef or bacon, to a non-meat product or to a poultry
   product.
           Food products described herein can be packaged in various ways, including being
10 sealed within individual packets or shakers, such that the composition can be sprinkled or
   spread on top of a food product before or during cooking.
           Food products described herein can include additional ingredients including food
   grade oils such as canola, corn, sunflower, soybean, olive or coconut oil, seasoning
   agents such as edible salts (e.g., sodium or potassium chloride) or herbs (e.g., rosemary,
15 thyme, basil, sage, or mint), flavoring agents, proteins (e.g., soy protein isolate, wheat
   glutin, pea vicilin, and/or pea legumin), protein concentrates (e.g., soy protein
   concentrate), emulsifiers (e.g., lecithin), gelling agents (e.g., k-carrageenan or gelatin),
   fibers (e.g., bamboo filer or inulin), or minerals (e.g., iodine, zinc, and/or calcium).
           Food products described herein also can include a natural coloring agent such as
?0 turmeric or beet juice, or an artificial coloring agent such as azo dyes, triphenylmethanes,
   xanthenes, quinines, indigoids, titanium dioxide, red #3, red #40, blue #1, or yellow #5.
           Food products described herein also can include meat shelf life extenders such as
   carbon monoxide, nitrites, sodium metabisulfite, Bombal, vitamin E, rosemary extract,
   green tea extract, catechins and other anti-oxidants.
25         Food products described herein can be free of animal products (e.g., animal heme
   containing proteins or other animal products).
           In some embodiments, the food products can be soy-free, wheat-free, yeast-free,
   MSG-free, and/or free of protein hydrolysis products, and can taste meaty, highly savory,
   and without off odors or flavors.
30
                                                   26

   Assessment of Food Products
            Food products described herein can be assessed using trained human panelists.
   The evaluations can involve eyeing, feeling, chewing, and tasting of the product to judge
   product appearance, color, integrity, texture, flavor, and mouth feel, etc. Panelists can be
 5 served samples under red or under white light. Samples can be assigned random three
   digit numbers and rotated in ballot position to prevent bias. Sensory judgments can be
   scaled for "acceptance" or "likeability" or use special terminology. For example, letter
   scales (A for excellent, B for good, C for poor) or number scales may be used (1 =
   dislike, 2 =  fair, 3 = good; 4 = very good; 5=excellent). A scale can be used to rate the
10 overall acceptability or quality of the food product or specific quality attributes such
   beefiness, texture, and flavor. Panelists can be encouraged to rinse their mouths with
   water between samples, and given opportunity to comment on each sample.
            In some embodiments, a food product described herein can be compared to
   another food product (e.g., meat or meat substitute) based upon olfactometer readings. In
15 various embodiments, the olfactometer can be used to assess odor concentration and odor
   thresholds, odor suprathresholds with comparison to a reference gas, hedonic scale scores
   to determine the degree of appreciation, or relative intensity of odors.
            In some embodiments, an olfactometer allows the training and automatic
   evaluation of expert panels. In some embodiments, a food product described herein
?0 causes similar or identical olfactometer readings. In some embodiments, the differences
   between flavors generated using the methods of the invention and meat are sufficiently
   small to be below the detection threshold of human perception.
            In some embodiments, volatile chemicals identified using GCMS can be
   evaluated. For example, a human can rate the experience of smelling the chemical
25 responsible for a certain peak. This information could be used to further refine the profile
   of flavor and aroma compounds produced using a heme-containing protein and one or
   more flavor precursors.
            Characteristic flavor and fragrance components are mostly produced during the
   cooking process by chemical reactions molecules including amino acids, fats and sugars
30 which are found in plants as well as meat. Therefore, in some embodiments, a food
                                                 27

   product is tested for similarity to meat during or after cooking. In some embodiments
   human ratings, human evaluation, olfactometer readings, or GCMS measurements, or
   combinations thereof, are used to create an olfactory map of the food product. Similarly,
   an olfactory map of the food product, for example, a meat replica, can be created. These
 5 maps can be compared to assess how similar the cooked food product is to meat.
           In some embodiments, the olfactory map of the food product during or after
   cooking is similar to or indistinguishable from that of cooked or cooking meat. In some
   embodiments the similarity is sufficient to be beyond the detection threshold of human
   perception. The food product can be created so its characteristics are similar to a food
10 product after cooking, but the uncooked food product may have properties that are
   different from the predicate food product prior to cooking.
           These results will demonstrate that the compositions of the invention are judged
   as acceptably equivalent to real meat products. Additionally, these results can
   demonstrate that compositions of the invention are preferred by panelist over other
15 commercially available meat substitutes. So, in some embodiments the present invention
   provides for consumables that are significantly similar to traditional meats and are more
   meat like than previously known meat alternatives.
           The invention will be further described in the following examples, which do not
   limit the scope of the invention described in the claims.
20
                                                 28

                                           EXAMPLES
           Example 1: Addition of heme-protein increases beefy qualities of replica
   burgers
           Replica burgers containing the ingredients in Table 4 and the flavor precursors
 5 cysteine (10 mM), glutamic acid (10 mM), glucose (10 mM), and thiamine (1 mM) were
   prepared. Water was added to make up the balance. See, for example, U.S. Provisional
   Application No. 61/751,816, filed January 11, 2013. Control burgers were prepared as in
   Table 4 with precursors cysteine (10 mM), glutamic acid (10 mM), glucose (10 mM), and
   thiamine (1 mM) except LegH was omitted.
10         After cooking for 5 minutes at 150 C, the replica burgers were evaluated by a
   trained sensory panel. Panelists were served samples under red lights and each panelist
   individually evaluated the samples. Samples were assigned a random three-digit number
   and rotated in ballot position to prevent bias. Panelists were asked to evaluate cooked
   replica burger samples on multiple flavor, aroma, taste, texture and appearance attributes
15 including but not limited to: beefiness, bloody quality, savory quality, and overall
   acceptability using a 7-point scale from 1=dislike extremely, to 7=like extremely.
   Panelists were encouraged to rinse their mouths with water between samples, and to fill
   out a survey to record their evaluation of each sample.
           When replica burgers containing the LegH were compared to the control replica
?0 burgers without LegH, the samples containing LegH were rated significantly beefier,
   bloodier, more savory, and overall preferred compared to those that did not include
   LegH. See Table 5.
                                             TABLE 4
25                                 Replica Burger Ingredients
               Replica burger                                    % precooked w/w
              Pea vicilin                                               3.86
              Soy protein concentrate (SPC)                             2.52
              Bamboo fiber                                              0.34
                                                 29

              NaCl                                                     0.54
              Pea legumin                                                2
              Soy Protein Isolate (SPI) (Solae, St. Louis,
                                                                       4.68
              MO)
              Wheat gluten                                             4.68
              Coconut oil                                                15
              Soy lecithin                                              0.1
              k-carrageenan                                               1
              LegH                                                        1
                                             TABLE 5
                       Sensory evaluation of replica burger with Heme
                                       Beef        No10
                          Attribuite   20/80       Hceeni
                           BeefyN~ess
                          mean         5.33        1.30      3.20
                           STDEV        1.58       0.67      0.79
                           Bloody
                          mean         4.00        1.10      2.78
                           STDEV        1.32       0.32      1.64
                           SaIvor-y
                          mean         4.67        3.00      5.10
                           STDEV        1.22       1.63      0.57
 5         Example 2: Replica burgers with a flavor precursor mixture taste beefy and
   bloody
           Replica burgers containing a flavor precursor mixture of glucose, cysteine,
   thiamine, and glutamic acid and 1% LegH pre-cooked w/w (see Table 4) were prepared
   as described in Example 1, and evaluated by a trained sensory panel after the burgers
10 were cooked for 5 minutes at 150 C. Control burgers included LegH and all other
   ingredients except for the flavor precursor mixture.
                                                30

           Panelists were asked to evaluate the samples overall improvement in taste and
   descriptively analyze each sample using a 5-point scale from 1=dislike extremely, to
   5=like extremely. Panelists were encouraged to rinse their mouths with water between
   samples, and to fill out a survey to record their evaluation of each sample. The replicate
 5 burgers which included LegH and the flavor precursor mixture were described as having
   bouillon, gravy, meaty, bloody, savory, and beefy notes on taste, and were preferred to
   the same replica burger with LegH but no added flavor precursor mixture. See, Table 6
                                             TABLE 6
            Improvement of overall taste with precursors added to LegH burgers
                                      with precursors     without precursors
                         Average                      3.5                    1.8
                         STDV                         0.6                   0.5
10
           Example 3: Replica burgers with flavor precursor mixture resulting in a
   bacon taste
           Replica burgers (see Table 4) were cooked with different precursor mixes (see
   Table 7) and 1% LegH and evaluated by a trained sensory panel after the burgers were
15 cooked for 5 minutes at 150 C. Control burgers contained LegH and all of the other
   ingredients except for the flavor precursors. Panelists were asked to evaluate each
   sample and descriptively analyze of each sample. 5-point scale from 1=dislike extremely,
   to 5=like extremely. Panelists were encouraged to rinse their mouths with water between
   samples, and to fill out a survey to record their evaluation of each sample. A replica
20 burger with a precursor mixture of 10 mM glucose, 10 mM ribose, 10 mM cysteine, 1
   mM thiamine, 1 mM glutamic acid, 1 mM GMP, and LegH was described as having a
   bacon aroma and taste, and overall meatiness, savory quality, a very umami quality, a
   brothy quality, and slight beefy notes. See Table 7 for a summary of the flavor
   description for the various combinations of flavor precursors and heme-containing
25 protein.
                                                  31

                                                                                                             -~
                                                         C.)
                                            -~        .-                                                     -~
                C~  ~)                       ~
                                                                                                             -~                        0
                                  C.)-~                -2
                                -~           ~        _                            ~.                           0          ~
               -~                                                                                   cj~       -~
                                  -~        -~                                                                            -~
                                -~                    -~          -~
                                                       ~           ~             -~
                                -~           cj~         0~         0              0                ~-         0           ~
                                             ~-       -~          -~                                            C~         ~)
                                                                                -~                -~            cj~
                                                                                                   ~.)
     $  -
               ~                  0~         ~        C4~~
                                                          ~       C.~
                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                -                       0
                                                                                                                                        0
     .-                                               -~          -~               ~)               0           ~         -~          -~
        I-     C4~~ ~                                  -z          -z                             -~
                                                          C~        C~       C~                                           ~
                                                          ~.)       ~.)                                                                 ~.)
                                                                                                                            ~.)
       0         ~              -~
                                 ~           o            o         o       ~Z~Q                 -~            0         ~             o
                                                                                                               ~
     ~           ~              ~            cj~          cj~                c.)~c.)                cj~      -~          -~             cj~
 0  -                      __          __        __
 o                      v'
  I
                                                                   ~I
                            C.)
                                             ~.)
                        c1C~                                                               _
                                                                                                                    -~          -~
                                                                                                                     C.)          C.)
                                                                                                                     C~           C~
                                                                                                                     C.)          C.)
~
        0
      _                                                                            o~
                                                                                 ---------
                                                                                             o~          o~          o~           o~
 I                                                                                         -__          __          __
                                                                                            hI~hh
               0        0   cj~ 0       cj~ 0     ~   0       cj~ 0     cj~ 0     cj~ 0     cj~ 0        ci~ 0       ~    0       cj~ 0
           C.)      C.)     C.)         C.)       C.)         C.)       C.)        C.)       C.)         C.)         C.)          C.)
                                                                                                 0       ~    0      ~    0       ~   0
                                                      32

                               ~)      ~)
                                       c~
                                             -~
                                               cj~     0
         ~)        ~)
         ~)      -~
       ~           ~)                          0       c~
                               ~)      ~)
         o         ~
         ~-      -~          -~        cj~     cj~
                             ei       ei
__                            A       A       A
 -~         -~        -~
   C.)       C.)         C.)                       C.)
       ~
             o~         o~
         ~         ~           ~
       0         0      ~     0   ~   0
   C.)       C.)         C.)      C.)
       0     ~ 0        ~ 0       ~ 0      ~ 0     ~ 0
                                                          33

            Example 4: Type of sugar modulates flavor compounds created in the
   presence of Hemeprotein
            The addition of different sugars to flavor reaction mixtures containing a
   hemeprotein and one or more flavor precursor compounds resulted in distinct differences
 5 in the flavor compounds generated and the overall flavor profile. LegH heme protein at
   1% pre-cooked w/w/ was mixed with cysteine (10 mM) and glucose (20 mM) at pH 6 in
   phosphate buffer to form a flavor reaction mixture and heated to 150 C for 3 minutes; this
   reaction created flavor compounds known to be present in meat; see Table 8. Similarly, a
   flavor reaction mixture made when LegH heme protein at 1% was mixed with cysteine
10 (10 mM) and ribose (20 mM) at pH 6 and heated to 150 C for 3 minutes created flavor
   compounds known to be in meat; see Table 8.
            The characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly produced during
   the cooking process when the flavor precursor molecules reacted with the heme-protein.
   Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GCMS) is a method that combines the features
15 of gas-liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry to separate and identify different
   substances within a test sample. Samples were evaluated by GCMS to identify the flavor
   compounds generated after heating and also evaluated for their sensory profiles. Volatile
   chemicals were isolated from the head space around the flavor reactions. The profile of
   the volatile chemicals in the headspace around the flavor reaction mixtures is shown in
?0 Table 8. In particular, the use of ribose created some additional compounds as compared
   to glucose, as shown in Table 8.
           Notably, the control mixtures of cysteine with ribose or glucose heated in the
   absence of the LegH heme-protein did not generate the same set of flavor compounds.
   The flavor reaction mixtures containing LegH also were evaluated by a blinded trained
25 sensory panel, which described the samples with ribose as having beefy, savory, brothy,
   and gravy-like notes, and the samples with glucose as savory, bloody, metallic, raw meat,
   and bouillon-like.
                                                  34

                                       TABLE 8
Flavor compounds generated with cysteine, LegH, and either glucose or ribose in
                             the flavor reaction mixture.
                                        LegH 1%
                                        cy~ste IneI( 10
                                        mIM),( glucose(20' cysteine(10 mIM),
     C'111opouds created                mI-M)               ibose (20 miM)
     benzaldehyde                                X                 X
     2-butanone                                  X                 X
     dimethyl trisulfide                         X                 X
     2-pentyl-furan                              X                 X
     2-methyl-propanal                           X                 X
     thiazole                                    X                 X
     butyrolactone                               X                 X
     2-acetylthiazole                            X                 X
     pentanal                                    X                 X
     3-methyl-butanal                            X                 X
     methyl-thiirane                             X                 X
     nonanal                                     X                 X
     heptanal                                    X                 X
     2,3-butanedione                             X                 X
      1,3,5-cycloheptatriene                     X                 X
     propyl-cyclopropane                         X                 X
     2-hexyl-furan                               X                 X
     butanal                                     X                 X
     2-methyl-butanal                            X                 X
     2-ethyl-furan                                                 X
     2-octanone                                  X                 X
     propanal                                    X                 X
                                           35

trichloromethane             X
2-methyl-furan               X X
furan                        X X
pyrazine                     X X
thiophene                    X X
 1,3-dimethyl-benzene        X X
octane                         X
octanal                      X X
thiazole                     X X
2-pentanone                    X
furfural                     X X
2-nonanone                   X X
(Z)-2-heptenal               X X
(E)-2-heptenal               X X
 1-octene                    X X
formic acid, heptyl ester    X X
2-pentyl-thiophene             X
 1-octen-3-one               X X
3-pentyl-furan               X X
2-propenal                     X
(E)-2-tridecen-1-ol            X
benzene                        X
(E)-4-octene                   X
 1-penten-3-one                X
4-penten-2-one               X X
2-methyl-thiazole              X
methyl-pyrazine                X
trans-2-(2-pentenyl)furan      X
3-ethylcyclopentanone          X
                          36

           pyrrole                                   X                    X
           2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                                      X
           3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                                      X
           Example 5: Heme-protein in the presence of thiamine affects the production
   of certain flavor compounds
           The addition of thiamine in a flavor reaction mixtures with a heme protein and
 5 other flavor precursors affected the formation of 5-Thiazoleethanol, 4-methyl-furan, 3,3'
   dithiobis[2-methyl-thiazole, and 4-methylthiazole. These compounds are known to be
   present in meat and have beefy, meaty taste notes.
           Flavor reaction mixtures at pH 6 containing LegH (1%), cysteine (10 mM),
   thiamine (1 mM), either glucose or ribose (20 mM), and with or without glutamic acid
10 (10 mM) were prepared and subsequently heated to 150 C for 3 minutes. These flavor
   reaction samples then were evaluated by GCMS for the flavor compounds generated and
   evaluated by a trained panel for their sensory profiles. Volatile chemicals were isolated
   from the head space around the flavor reactions. GCMS showed 4-methyl-5
   thiazoleethanol, 3,3'-dithiobis[2-methyl]-furan, and 4-methylthiazole compounds were
15 created by a mixture of LegH with thiamine, a sugar (either glucose or ribose), and
   cysteine. The same flavor reaction mixtures without thiamine did not generate these
   compounds; additionally these compounds were not generated when heme-proteins were
   not present in the flavor reaction mixtures.
           The flavor reaction samples also were evaluated by a blinded trained sensory
20 panel, which described the samples with the addition of thiamine as more complex in
   taste and more beefy, meaty, and savory.
           Example 6: Heme-proteins with nucleotides controls particular flavor
   compound production.
25         The addition of inosine monophosphate and guanosine monophosphate in mixes
   with heme protein and other precursors controlled the formation of flavor compounds
   (E)-4-octene, 2-ethyl-furan, 2-pentanone, 2,3-butanedione, 2-methyl-thiazole, , methyl
                                                37

   pyrazine, tridecane, (E)-2-octenal, 2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, and 3
   thiophenecarboxaldehyde. These compounds are known to be present in meat and have a
   beefy, meaty, buttery, and or savory flavor notes.
           Reactions containing heme protein at 1% (LegH) with cysteine (10 mM), and
 5 glucose (20 mM), 1 mM IMP and 1 mM GMP, at pH 6.0 were prepared and heated to
   150C for 3 minutes. Characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly
   produced during the cooking process where precursors reacting heme-protein. These
   samples were evaluated by GCMS for the flavor compounds generated and evaluated for
   the sensory experience. Volatile chemicals were isolated from the head space around the
10 flavor reaction and identified using GCMS, creating a profile of the volatile chemicals in
   the headspace around the flavor reaction mixture. GCMS showed 4-octene, 2-ethyl furan,
   2-pentanone, 2,3-butanedione, 2-methyl-thiazole, methyl-pyrazine, tridecane, 2-octenal,
   2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde compounds were created by a
   mixture of hemeprotein LegH with IMP, GMP, glucose, and cysteine. The same samples
15 without IMP and GMP did not generate these compounds, additionally these compounds
   were also not created when heme-proteins were not present, just precursor molecules.
   Sensory evaluation by blinded trained panelist found the samples with the addition of
   inosine and guanosine as described as having more complexity in taste and more beefy,
   meaty, brothy and savory. Figure 2 shows the abundance of the novel flavor compounds
?0 created with heme protein at 1% was mixed in a reaction at pH 6, with cysteine (10 mM),
   and glucose (20 mM), IMP (1 mM) and GMP (1 mM), and detected by solid phase
   microextraction (SPME) and then detected by GCMS.
           Example 7: Flavor generation with the addition of a particular organic acid
25         The addition of lactic acid in mixes with heme protein, ribose, and cysteine
   controlled the formation of the flavor compounds nonanal, thiazole, 2-acetylthiazole, and
   8-methyl-1-undecene. These compounds are known to be present in meat.
           Reactions containing heme protein at 1%, cysteine (10 mM), and ribose (20 mM),
   and lactic acid (1mM), pH 6.0, were prepared and heated to 150C for 3 minutes.
30 Characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly produced during the cooking
                                                38

   process where precursors reacting heme-protein. These samples were evaluated by
   GCMS for the flavor compounds generated and evaluated for the sensory experience.
   Volatile chemicals were isolated from the head space around the flavor reaction and
   identified using GCMS, creating a profile of the generated compounds. Nonanal,
 5 thiazole, 2-acetylthiazole, and 8-methyl-1-undecene compounds were created by a
   mixture of LegH with lactic acid, ribose, and cysteine. The same samples without lactic
   acid did not generate these compounds, additionally these compounds were not created in
   the absence of heme-proteins.
           Sensory evaluation by blinded trained panelist found the samples with the
10 addition of lactic acid as described as beefy, savory, browned, bready, and having malty
   notes. The sample with everything but lactic acid rated lower in browned, bready and
   malty notes.
           Example 8: Flavor generated with the addition of a particular amino acid.
15         The addition of lysine in mixes with heme protein ribose, and cysteine controlled
   the formation of flavor compounds dimethyl trisulfide, nonanal, 2-pentyl-thiophene,
   furfural, 2-nonenal, 1-octanol, 2-nonenal, thiazole, 2-acetylthiazole, phenylacetaldehyde,
   2-acetylthiazole. These compounds are known to be present in meat and some have a
   beefy, meaty, and or savory flavor.
?0         Reactions containing heme protein at 1%, cysteine (10 mM), and ribose (20 mM),
   and lysine (1mM), at pH 6.0, were prepared and heated to 150C for 3 minutes. These
   samples were evaluated by GCMS for the flavor compounds generated and evaluated for
   the sensory experience. Characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly
   produced during the cooking process where precursors could react with the heme-protein.
25 These samples were evaluated by GCMS for the flavor compounds generated and
   evaluated for the sensory experience. Volatile chemicals were isolated from the head
   space around the flavor reaction. Dimethyl trisulfide, nonanal, 2-pentyl-thiophene,
   furfural, 2-nonenal, 1-octanol, 2-nonenal, thiazole, 2-acetylthiazole, phenylacetaldehyde,
   2-acetylthiazole compounds were created by a mixture of LegH with lactic acid, ribose,
30 and cysteine. The same samples without lactic acid did not generate these compounds,
                                                 39

   additionally these compounds were not created when heme-proteins were not present, just
   precursor molecules. Sensory evaluation by blinded trained panelist found the samples
   with the addition of lysine as described as roast beefy, savory, and browned. The addition
   of lysine increased the roasted browned notes.
 5
           Example 9 - Flavor compound production by different Heme-proteins
           The addition of different types of heme-proteins (LegH, Barley, B. myoglobin, or
   A. aeolicus) in flavor reaction mixtures containing one or more flavor precursor
   compounds results in many of the same key meat flavors, including but not limited to 2
10 pentyl-furan, 2,3-Butanedione, Thiophene, 2-methyl-thiazole, Pyrazine, Furan, Pyrrole,
   2-methyl-furan and distinct differences in the flavor compounds, including but not
   limited to 2-pentyl-thiophene, Nonanal, 2-Nonanone, and 1-Octen-3-one. These
   differences in flavor compounds can change the overall taste profile. The different types
   of heme-protein were LegH, Barley, B. myoglobin, or A. aeolicusused at 1% w/w in a
15 reaction mixed with cysteine (10 mM) and ribose (10 mM) at pH 6. The pre- reaction
   mixture was heated to 150 C for 3 minutes; this reaction created flavor compounds
   known to be present in meat; see Table 9. The characteristic flavor and fragrance
   components are mostly produced during the cooking process where the flavor precursor
   molecules react with the heme-protein. Samples were evaluated by GCMS to identify the
?0 flavor compounds generated after heating and also evaluated for their sensory profiles.
   Volatile chemicals were isolated from the head space around the flavor reactions. Table 9
   shows the similarity and differences in volatile flavor compounds created by the different
   types of heme-proteins.
                                            TABLE 9
25                   Flavor compounds created by different heme-protein
                             when heated with ribose and cysteine.
    Name                        LegH      Barley      B. myoglobin      A. aeolicus
    Furan                         x          x               x               x
    Thiazole                      x          x               x               x
    benzaldehyde                  x          x               x               x
    2-acetylthiazole              x          x               x               x
                                                40

2-methyl-propanal       x x    x x
furfural                x x    x x
2,3-butanedione         x x    x x
2-pentyl-furan          x x    x x
2-pentanone             x x
pyrazine                x x    x x
dimethyl trisulfide     x x    x x
3-methyl-butanal        x x      x
2-methyl-thiazole       x x    x x
pentanal                x x    x x
 1,3,5-cycloheptatriene x x    x x
methacrolein            x x    x x
heptanal                x x    x x
2-methyl-butanal        x x      x
isothiazole             x x    x x
thiophene               x x    x x
propanal                x x    x x
2-heptenal              x      x x
methyl-pyrazine         x x    x x
 1-octene               x      x x
butanal                 x x    x x
2-acetyl-propen-2-ol    x x    x x
pyrrole                 x x    x x
2-methyl-furan          x x    x x
nonanal                   x    x x
2-propenal                x    x x
2-decenal                 x    x x
2-nonanone                x      x
2-octanone                x    x x
2-tridecen-1-ol,               x x
2-octanone                     x
2-octenal                      x x
4-methyl-2-heptanone           x x
octanal                        x x
2-undecenal                      x
butyrolactone                    x
 1-octen-3-one                   x
3-methylheptyl acetate           x
                            41

    2-pentyl-thiophene                                                        x
           Example 10 - Generation of Meat flavors from different lipids
          Several different samples including oils (canola oil or coconut oil), free fatty acids
   (FFA) (linoleic acid (C18:2), oleic acid (C18:1), stearic acid (C18:0), or myristic acid
 5 (C 14:0)) and phospholipids (PL) (beef heart polar lipids extract, Biolipon95 (from
   Perimond), or NatCholinePC40 (from Perimond)) were tested for their ability to produce
   beefy flavor in the absence and in the presents of other precursors. Oils, FFAs, and PLs
   were added to 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer (PPB) pH 6.0 or a Maillard reaction
   mix (MRM) containing 50 mM potassium phosphate pH 6.0, 5 mM Cysteine, 10 mM
10 Glucose, 0.1 mM Thiamine, and 0.10%(w/v) LegHemoglobin. Lipids in combination
   with MRM were designed to capture the cross reactions of lipid degradation and Maillard
   reaction productions while lipids in phosphate buffer functioned as a lipid control. The
   oils were added at 3% of the total 1 mL volume of solution while FFAs and PLs were
   added at 1% of the total 1 mL volumes. All samples were cooked at 150'C for 3 mins,
15 cooled to 50'C and then analyzed using GCMS (SPME fiber sampling of headspace).
   After all samples were analyzed by GCMS the caps were removed and samples were
   smelled by a trained flavor scientist and aromas recorded.
                                             Table 10
                         Legend showing components of each sample
    Sample Name                   Solution                  Additives
    MRM None                      Maillard Reaction Mix     None
    MRMLinoelic Acid              Maillard Reaction Mix      1% linoleic acid
    MRMOleic Acid                 Maillard Reaction Mix      1% oleic acid
    MRM_C14                       Maillard Reaction Mix      1% C14:0 free fatty acid
    MRM_Cl8                       Maillard Reaction Mix      1% C 18:0 free fatty acid
    MRMCanola                     Maillard Reaction Mix     3% Canola Oil
    MRMCoconut                    Maillard Reaction Mix     3% Coconut Oil
    MRMBeefHeart                  Maillard Reaction Mix      1% Beef Heart Polar Lipids Extract
    MRMBiolipon95                 Maillard Reaction Mix      1% Biolipon95 (emulsifier)
                                                42

    MRM_NatCholinePC40             Maillard Reaction Mix      1% NatCholinePC40 (emulsifier)
    KPhos6_Linoelic Acid           PPB, pH 6                  1% linoelic acid
    KPhos6_Oleic Acid              PPB, pH 6                  1% oleic acid
    KPhos6_C14                     PPB, pH 6                  1% C14:0 free fatty acid
    KPhos6_C18                     PPB, pH 6                  1% C18:0 free fatty acid
    KPhos6_Canola                  PPB pH 6                  3% Canola Oil
    KPhos6_Coconut                 PPB, pH 6                 3% Coconut Oil
    KPhos6_BeefHeart               PPB, pH 6                  1% Beef Heart Polar Lipids Extract
    KPhos6_Biolipon95              PPB, pH 6                  1% Biolipon95 (emulsifier)
    KPhos6_NatCholinePC40          PPB, pH 6                  1% NatCholinePC40 (emulsifier)
           Table 11 contains the aroma descriptions and Table 12 contains the GCMS data
   from the most interesting samples analyzed. Many of the lipids introduced a "fatty"
   aroma to MRM that was otherwise absent. The combinations of Linoleic Acid or
 5 NatCholinePC40 in MRM produced the greatest abundance of fatty compounds
   suggesting that these lipids may improve the flavor perception of beef tallow. Linoleic
   Acid and NatCholinePC40 also showed high abundance of earthy-mushroom aromas.
   The addition of lipids to MRM significantly increased the abundance of "nutty &
   roasted" aromas. Less desirable "green" aroma compounds were most prominent in
10 samples with unsaturated free fatty acids (linoleic acid or oleic acid) or phospholipids. In
   general, the addition of lipids significantly increased the number of target beef
   compounds made.
                                             TABLE 11
15                 Aroma descriptions of each sample after it was cooked.
     Sample Names                 Aroma Descriptions
     MRMOnly                      brothy, malty, beef stew
     KPhos6_BeefHeart             fatty, creamy, beef tallow, slight sweet, slight roasted nutty
     MRMBeefHeart                 fatty, beef tallow, old meat, mushroom
     KPhos6_Biolipon95            fatty, fresh
     MRMBiolipon95                fatty, brothy, hay, malty green
                                                   43

KPhos6_Na tCh ol inePC4
0                                    light fatty, fresh
MRMNatCholinePC4O                                 fatty, beef tallow, brothy
K-Phos6        014                   light/faint plastic/waxy
MRM        014                       brothy, beefy, minty, fresh
K-Phos6        01 8                   light/faint plastic/waxy
MRM_018                                   beefy with cucumber &/or pepper aroma
K-Phos6         Canola                  fresh, cucumber
MRM        Canola                     fatty, brothy, oil, roasted nuts
K-Phos6_Coconut                              nothing
MRM        Coconut                      brothy, beefy, slight fatty, crackers
K-Phos6        Oleic Acid               fresh, cucumber, camphorous/minty-like
MRM       Oleic Acid                   herbal, plastic, slight cheesy, brothy
K-P hos6       Li noel ic Acid        light plastic
MRM        Linoelic Acid                fatty, light waxy, brothy, herbal
                                                       Table 12
 List of aromatic compounds found in Beef by GCMS and a chart showing which
                             were detected in each lipid plus MRM sample.
     Compounds in Beef                                                                                                                                   9j
     (s)-isopropyl lactate                              N               N                         N                                      N
                1-.-ethyl-5                                    .................. ..................................
                methylcyclopentene..................................................
                1o-hl.epta n                                  ................... .................................
                1-hepten-3-ol                         N                 Y                         Y.................................................
                1 -heptene                            N                 Y                         Y..................................................
                       methyl-1-heptene.... ...- N.......               N............             N ......................
                1-hexanol.....                        N        ................. ..                                                                   ....
                   -hexanol
                2-ethyl-i                             N                 N                         N..............................................
                   l onan
                1o-n                                  N                 N................................... .................
                1e-nonen                              N . ................... .................................
      1 -o t a nl                                     N.......... ................................ ................
                1-o -octenl -3                        N................. ..................................
                                                         . 4 4..
                                                       ...... ................................. ................

                           ....................................................................................................................
                          .....................................................................................................................
I-octen-3-one              .......
                            .......
                           .......        .......
                                         ........  ..............
                                                    ..............
                                                            .......
                                                   ..............        ...............
                                                                         ......            ............
                                                                                                     .....      .............
                                                                                                                ......          .............
                          .....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                  ............
                           ....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                .............          .............
                                                   ..............................        .................................
I-octene                           N                               N                                      N                                      N
                                                   ................................................................................................
                                                  .........................................                                     .......................
                                                                                                                                                 .  ..............
I-pentanol                                                               ...............   ............         .............
                                                                                                           ...............      ...............
                                   N ..................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                                  ...............
                                                                                                                                                 ...............
                                                   ................................................................................................  ...............
                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                   ..............................        ..................................
                                                  .................................................................
                                                   ................................................................
I-penten-3-ol                      N ...............
                                                   ..............
                                                  ..................
                                                   ..............        ...............   .............. Y...  .............
                                                   ................................................................
                                                  .................................................................
I-propanol                         N                               N                                      N                                      N
                                                  ..................
                                                   ...             . .................
                                                                       .. ... ..... .... .                y...............
                                                                                                                .............
                                                                                           .........................
                                                                                                              ..............    .
                                                                                                                                .............         ..............
                                                                                                                                                    ..............
                                                                                                                                                  ...............
                                                                                                                                                  ...............
8-m ethy l-l-un decen e            N              ...................
                                                             .......     .                                .. .....              .....
                                                  .................................................................................................
                                                   ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               ................................
1,3-hexadiene                                                      N                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                   :...........
                                   N .................................................................................................
                                                                                                          N                     .............          .............
                                                                                                                               ..................................
                                                                                                                               ...............................
                                                  ................................................................................................
                                                   ................................................................................................
                                                  .................................................................................................
3-ethy l-2 -methy l- 1,3-                          ................................................................................................
                                                  ................................................................................................
                                                   ................................................................................................
                                                  .................................................................................................
                                                   ..............                          ............
hex adien e                        N .................................................................................................
                                                         ..........      ...............    ............         ............   .............
                                                                                                                               ..............           ............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                          .................        ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               ........................
1,3-octadiene              .........                               N                                      N                    ..............
                                                                                                                                .............         .............
                                                                                                                               ........................
                          ..........   .........
1,3,5-cycloheptatriene             N                               N                                      N                                      N
2,3-dihydro-5,6-dimethyl
1,4-dioxin                         N                               N                                      N                                      N
                                                  ...................................
                                                  ...............
1,7-octadien-3-ol                  N               ..............
                                                           ...........................
                                                  ...................................                                                            N
Ih-pyrrole-2
carboxaldehyde                     N                               N                                      N                                      N
2-methyl-IH-pyrrole                N                               N                                      N                                      N
                          ....................
                          .........    .........
2-acetyl-2-thiazoline      ..................
                                   ..  .........
                           ..................
                          ...................                      N                                      N                                      N
                          ....................
                          .....................................................................................................................
2 -acety lthiazo le        .......
                           .......        .......
                                         ........  ..............
                                                            .......
                                                   ..............        ...............
                                                                         ......            ............
                                                                                                     .....      .............
                                                                                                                ......          .............
                                                                                                                                  ............
                          .....................................................................................................................        .............
                                                                                                                                                               ....
                           ....................................................................................................................
                                                   ................................................................................................
                                                  .................................................................................................
                                                    ..............       ...............
2 -butanon e                                       ...
                                                  ....
                                                   ..............
                                                  ...............
                                                    ..............       ....... * ....     ............
                                   N :..**************************-**-**-**-*.*.*.*..*.*.*.**   .......
                                                                         ............................           .............
                                                                                                                 ............
                                                                                                                ...............
                                                                                                               .............    .............
                                                                                                                                     ...........
                                                   ................................................................................................    .............
                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                  ................................................................................................
                                                  .................................................................................................
                                                   ................................................................................................
2 -but e na l                                     ............
                                                   ..............
                                                  ....        .....      ...............   ............
                                                                         ............................
                                   N :.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.********************..********
                                                   ..............        ...............   ............         ......          .............
                                                                                                                                *************************..*..
                                                                                                                                                       ......
                                                  .................................................................................................
                                                   ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                .................      .............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
2-ethyl-2-butenal                  N                               N                                      N = ..                     ...........
                                                                                                                                .............          .............
                                                                                                                                                      ..............
                                                                                                                               ................................
                                                                                                                               *.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.
                                                                                           .........................
                                                                                            ............        .............       .......................
                                                                                                                                                  ..   .............
                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
3-methyl-2-butenal                 N                               N                          ..........
                                                                                            ............        ...........................
                                                                                                          y .............       ...............
                                                                                                                ...........................           ..............
                                                                                                                                                     ..............
                                                                                          ..........................................................................
                                                                                           ..............................................................
3-methyl-2-cyclohexen- I
one                                N                               N                                      N                                      N
                           ....................    ............................            ..............................
                          .....................................................................................
                                   .........
                                        .........
2-decanone                 .......
                          ............  ........   ..............        ...............
                                                                         ...............
                                                                         .............
                                                                         ................................
                                                                                            ............  ..     ............
                                                                                                          y .............
                          ....................................................................................
                          .....................................................................................
(E)-2-decenal                      N                               N                                      N                                      N
                           ....................................................................................................................
                          .....................................................................................................................
(Z )-2 -decen al            .......       .....
                           ....................    ..............                  ....................
                                                           ...........................                          ..............
                                                                                                                         .....
                                                                                           ................................     .............
                          .....................................................................................................................
                           ....................................................................................................................        .............
                                                                                                                                                 Y:*************
2-furanmethanol                    N                               N                                      N                                      N
                           ....................................................................................................................
                          .....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                ..............
2 -h eptan on e             .......               .....       .......
                                                    ...............    ...................
                                                                        ................   ....................
                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                          ..............     .         ......
                                                                                                              ...........  *..............
                           ....................................................................................................................
                          .....................................................................................................................
                           ...................................................................................................................
                          ....................................................................................................................        ..............
                                                                                                             ...............
                                                                                             .............................
6-methyl-2-heptanone               N                               N                       ............
                                                                                            ............
                                                                                          .............         .............
                                                                                            .............................                        N
                                                                                      ..................................
                                                                                           ................................
(E)-2-heptenal                     N                   ...........       ............................
                                                                         ...............   ............        ...........      .............           ...........
                                                                                                                                                        ..........
                                                                                                 ...............................
                                                                                       .................................        .......................
                                                                                                                               ................................
(Z)-2-heptenal                     N                               N                                      N                     X.
                                                                                                                               ..    ........... Y::..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                ................................
                                                        .......... ..............      ... ................................
                                                                                          .............
                                                                                           ............        .............
                                                                                                                ...................  ............    ...............
                                                                                                                                                 .................
(E)-2-hexenal                      N .........................................
                                                  ...................................
                                                   ..................................    ..............
                                                                                           .............        ............
                                                                                                               ...........    ........................
2-ethyl-2-hexenal                  N                               N                                      N                                      N
                          ....................
2-methyl-2-heptene        ....................                     N                                      N                                      N
                           ....................
2-n-heptyl uran                                                    N                                      N                                      N
                                                                                                             ...............
                                                                                           .............................
2-n-octylfuran               .................                          ................
                                                  ..................................
                                                                        .............                      .. iiiiiiid N
                                               45

                                                     ..................................         .........................
                                                    .................................................................
2-nonanone                           N                                                            ..........
                                                    .................................................................
                                                                              ...............                       ............
                                                     ................................................................
                                                    .................................................................
                                                     ............................
                           .....................................................................................................................
                             ....................................................................................................................
                           :*:*:*:*:*:*:*:*.:
                                          .          ..............     .    ................
                                                                          .................     ............   ....
                                                                                                                  ...............  .............   ...  ..............
                                                                                                                                                        .............
(E )-2-nonenal                            .........  ..............          ...............   ...............
                                         ..........................................................................................................
                             ....................................................................................................................
                           .....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                  ................................
(Z )-2-nonenal                       N                                  N                                     N                   ..  ...........
                                                                                                                                   .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
                                                                                                                                  ................................
                           ....................     .............................................
                             ....................................................................................................................
                                                                        .  ..................
                                                                             ................. :                                   ..........................
                                                                                                                                                   . ..............
2-octanone                   .......           .......
                                            .......  ..    .............
                                                           ............      ................
                                                                             . .......          .
                                                                                               ::............  .. ....... ......  ....             ...............
                           ....................     .....................................
                                                            ...............................
                                                    ...................................                                  .......  ..........................
                             ....................................................................................................................
                           .....................................................................................................................
                             .......                 ...     ...
                                                               ........       ...............                       .............                         ............
(Z )-2-octen-l-ol                           .......
                             ..................             ...........
                                                     ..............          ...............
                                                     ..................................         ............
                                                                                                .............. .    .............
                                                                                                ................................................
                                                                                                                                   .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
                           ...................      .............................................                                  ..........................
                             ....................................................................................................................
                           ....................................................................................................................
                                                                                               ..............................      ..........................
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                                                                              Y+
                                                                                                              +  ..............
                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                  ..............   .
                                                                                                                                   .............   .
                                                                                                                                                   .+++
                                                                                                                                                      +++++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
                                                                                                                                                     ..............
                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                    ...............
(E ) -2 -o c t e na l                N              ...............           ................
                                                    :+:+:+:++++++++++++++++++++++Y                                 .............
                                                                           ++++++++++++::::::::::::::::++:++:++:++:++:++:++:++:    ..............
                                                                                                                                   ...............Y     ..............
                                                                                                                 ++:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:.::::::::::::::+
                                                    ................................................................................................  ++++++++++++++++++++++
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                     ................................................................
                                                    .................................................................
2-pentanone                          N               ... .                   ...............
                                                                              ............................
                                                                              ++++++++++++++
                                                    :+++++++++++++++++++++++++Y
                                                     ..............                    .......  ............
                                                                                                ...                :.......
                                                                                                   +++++++++++++++++++Y
                                                                                                .............................
                                                    .................................................................
                                                     ................................................................
I -propoxy-2-propanol                N                                  N                                     N                                   N
                           ....................
                              ...................
I -(acetyloxy)-2-propanone ....................                         N                                     N                                   N
                             ....................
I -hydroxy-2-propanone     .........      ........
                                         .........
                             ...................                        N                                     N                                   N
                                                                                                                                  ................................
2-propenal                           N                                  N                                     N                    .............
                                                                                                                                  ++: ...........
                                                                                                                                   .............        .............
                                                                                                                                  ................................
                                                                                                                                    ...............................
2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde  :........
                             ....... y ............  ...      ..........
                                                               ........
                                                            ............Y     ...............
                                                                         ................
                             ..................................................................................................................
                                                                          .........................................
                                                                                      .........
                                                                            ++++++++++++++++
                                           :+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+++++++++++++++++++         ............        ++++++++++++++++++++++++.
                                                                                                                                   .............        :+++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                                                                   ::+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+::+:+:+:+:+:+:+
                                                                                                :+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+Y
                            ....................    ......          ..........                   .............................
                             ....................................................................................................................
                            .....................................................................................................................
                             ....................                                                                                                .....................
                                                     ;;;...............................................................................................
                                                            ...............................     .............................     ..........................
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                     .................     ................                                                             ..............
                                                                                                                                                        .............
2-undecenal                          N               ................  ..+
                                                            +++++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                            ..................  ............
                                                                              ............................         .............    ............
                                                                                                                                   ..............
                                                                                                                                   .............  y ..............
                                                     ................................................................................................   .............
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                   ................................
2,3-butanedione                      N                                  N                                     N                       ...........         ............
                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                   ...............................
                                                                                                                                  ................................
2,3-pentanedione                     N                                  N                                     N                                   N
                                                     ..............                         ..  ............        .............
(E ,E)-2,4-decadienal                N              ...............
                                                     ..............          .............................
                                                                                            ... ........
                                                                                                ............        ............   ...............Y-+:++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                                                              Y :++++++++++++++++++++++++.:::::::::::
                                                     ...............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                   ..............
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                    ............................
                                                    ................................................................................................. .  .+++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                                                                                                       ..............
                                                     ..................................         ...................................
                                                                                                                                  ................................
2,4-decadienal                       N                                  N                                                          .............        .............
                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                              N                   ................................
                                                                                                                                   ................................
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                    .................................................................................................   ............
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
(E ,E)-2,4-heptadienal               N               ..     ...........
                                                           ............ Y     .............................
                                                                             :::::::::::::::
                                                    :+:+::::+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:      ....... ..............
                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                    ...........
                                                                                                ............      .............
                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                  . ............
                                                                                                                            .....
                                                                                                                    ............  ..............
                                                                                                                                  ..                    .............
                                                                                                                                                        .  ............
                                                                                                                                                        ...............
                                                          ...............................................................................................
                                                                                                .............................................................
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                     ...............................................................      ......................................
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                     ................................................................................................
(E ,E)-2,4-nonadienal                N              ...............
                                                     ..............          :...............           ......      .............
                                                                                                                    ............   .        .....
                                                                                                                                   .............        ..............
                                                                                                                                                  Y :+++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                                                                                    .........................
                                                                   ......................................................................................
                                                    ................................................................................................
2,6-dimethylpyrazine                 N                                  N                                     N                                   N
                                                                                               ..............................
                                                                                                 ............................
(EZ)-2,6-nonadienal                  N                                  N                        .............
                                                                                                ..............      .............
                                                                                               ..............................
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                     ..................................
                                                                 .......                            ........
                                                                                                ...............................                                  ......
5-ethyldihydro-2(3H )-                              .................................................................................................
                                                     ...............................................................................................
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                    ..................     ................
                                                            +++++++++++++++++++++++
                                                                            ..................                                                          ..............
furanone                             N              .................                           ............
                                                                                               .............
                                                                       ..+............................              .............
                                                                                                                   .............    ............
                                                                                                                                   ..............
                                                                                                                                   .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                  y ....................
                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                               . .................................................................................................
                                                    .............................................                                  ..........................
5-methyl-2(3H)-furanone              N                                  N                                     N                                   N
                                                                                               .............................................................
                                                                                                ............................................................
                                                                                                                                     ...............................
                                                                                               ..............................................................
                                                                                               ...............................      ...............................
dihydro-5-pentyl-2(3H )-                                                                       ..............................................................
                                                                                               ..............................................................
                                                                                               ..............................................................
                                                                                                .............................................................
                                                                                               .............        ............                   ...............
furanone                             N                                  N                      ..............      .............   .............
                                                                                                ......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
                                                                                               ..............................................................
                                                                                                 ............................................................
                                                                                                .............................................................
dihydro-5-propyl-2(3H)
furanone                             N                                  N                                     N                                   N
2(5H)-furanone                       N                                  N                                     N                                   N
tetrahydro-6-methyl-2H
pyran-2-one                          N                                  N                                     N                                   N
                                                     ...............................................................................................
                                                    ..................
                                                            ...........       .............   ...
                                                                              ............................         .............   .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                         .............
3-ethylcyclopentanone                N               ..............
                                                    ....
                                                     ...............................................................................................
                                                      ..............         ...............    ............        ............
                                                                                                                   .............
                                                                                                                    ...........   ..............
                                                                                                                                   .............
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                                              ......
                                                     .................................                             ......
                                                                                                       .......................    ..........................
                                                    ................................................................................................    .............
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
3-hexanone                           N                                  N                                     N                                   N
3-methyl-2
thiophenecarboxaldehyde              N                                  N                                     N                                   N
                            ....................
                                     .........       ..................................
                                                    ...................................
                                                     ...                                                                          ..........................
                                                                                                                                                        ..............
3-octanone                   ..
                             .......  ..
                                     y..........
                            ..........    ........   ..............
                                                            ...........                                                                           Y :...................
                            ....................    ...................................
                                                     ..................................                                           ..........................
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                     ................................................................................................
3-octen-2-one                        N              ...............
                                                     ..............           ...............  :+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:
                                                                                                ............  ..  ...............
                                                                                                                    .............  .............   .. ...............
                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                    ...............
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                     ................................................................................................
                                                    .................................................................................................
                                                    ...............           ...............  .............                                            ..............
3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde            N              ...............
                                                     ..............
                                                     ....                     ............................
                                                                             ...............
                                                                         ............           ............
                                                                                                        ..........  .............   . . ..............
                                                                                                                                   .............
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                     ...............................................................................................
                                                                                                                           ............................ .............
                                                             ............................................................................................
                                                 46

                                                                                             ..............................................................
                                                                                            ..............................................................
(EE)-3,5-octadien-2-one             N                                N                      ..............
                                                                                             ............
                                                                                            ..............
                                                                                             ............
                                                                                            .............       .............
                                                                                                                .............
                                                                                                                ............................
                                                                                                            . ...
                                                                                                                ..              .............
                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                ...........................         .  .............
                                                                                                                                                    ...............
                                                                                                                                                   . . ............
                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                            ...............................................................
                                                                                                      ......................................................
                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                               ..........................
dihydro-2-methyl-3(2H)
furanone                            N                                N                                     N                                    N
4-cyanocyclohexene                  N                                N                                     N                                    N
                                                                                            ..............................
                                                                                             ............
4-cyclopentene-1,3-dione            N                                N                      ..............................
4-decyn e                           N                   ............
                                                    ...............
                                                        ................
                                                   ................       ..
                                                                         ....
                                                    ................................
                                                                          ........  .......                                                     N
                                                    ..................................
                                                   ...................................
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                   .................................................................................................
(Z )-4 -h ep ten al                 N              ..  ............
                                                     .............         ..............
                                                                          ...............    ............
                                                                                              ............       ..........................
                                                   ................................................................................................    ............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                        ...............................      .............................     ..........................
4-methyloctanoic acid               N                                N                                     N                                    N
(E)-4-octene                        N                                N                                     N                                    N
                           ....................
                            ....................
2,3-dihydro-3,5-dihydroxy- ....................
6-methyl-4(H)-pyran-4-one   ....................
                                 ...............                     N                                     N                                    N
                             ........   .........
                           ....................
                           ....................
6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one    .........    .........
                            ...................                      N                                     N                                    N
                             ..................                                                                                ................................
                                                                                                                                           .......................
                                                                                                                                .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                     ..............
                                                                                                                                                       ............
acetaldehyde                        N                                N                                     N                   ..............         .............
                                                                                                                               ................................
acetic acid                         N                                N                                     N                                    N
acetic acid ethenyl ester  .........    .........
                            ....................                     N                                     N                                    N
                           ....................
                                    .     ........
acetoin                    .........    .  .......
                            ...................
                           ..................
                            .......
                           ........
                            .....          .......N
                                   ..............
                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                     . ............
                                                                                                                                                  ...............
acetone                          ....
                           ....................                      N                                     N                                         ..............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                            ...................
                            ....................                                                                                ................................
                                                                                                                               ..........................
                                                                                                                               ..................................
                                                                                                                                  *.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                ...............
                                                                                                                                  ..............
                                                                                                                                .............  ....................
                                                                                                                                                       *************
                                                                                                                                                .................
                                                                                                                                                   ..............
aceton itrile                       N                                N                                     N                   ..............................
                                                                                                                                ...............................
                                                                                                                                     ...............
                                                                                                                                                  ...............
                                                                                                                                ................................
                                                                                                                               ***  ........
                            ....................................................................................................................
                           .....................................................................................................................
                            .......                 ..............         .............................        .............   ..............        .............
benzaldehyde                               .......
                           ....................
                            ....................            .......        ................
                                                   .............................................
                                                   ....................................
                                                    ..................................       .............................   .  ..........................
                                                                                                                              ..........................
                                                                        ................ ...............................
                                                    ................................................................
                                                     ..............                                                            .
4-ethyl-benzaldehyde                N              .................
                                                    ................
                                                     ...............    .................
                                                                           ............................
                                                                                   .......  .............
                                                                                             ............
                                                                                             ...                .......
                            ....................
                                   .............    ................................................................
                                                   .................................................................
benzene                     .........    .........                   N                                     N                                    N
benzoic acid, hydrazide                                              N                                     N                                    N
                           ....................                                                                                ..........................
                                                                                                                                   .........................
butanal                             ..     .......
                                         ........
                                           .......                   N                                     N                    . .............
                                                                                                                                .............          ............
                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                                     ..............
                           ....................                                                                                ..........................
2-methyl-butanal                    N                                N                                     N                                    N
                            ....................
3-methyl-butanal           ....................                      N                                     N                                    N
butanoic acid                       N                                N                                     N                                    N
                            ....................    ..................................
                                                   ...................................                                         ..........................
b utyro lacton e             .......
                            .........          .......
                                         ........   ..............         ..............
                                                                            ...........  ..                                              ......
                                                                                                                                .............   Y :...............
                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                      ............
                           ....................  ..         ............................
                                                    ..................................
                                                   ...................................                                         ..........................
                                                                                                                                ..........................
caprolactam                         N                                N                                     N                                    N
                                                                                                                               ................................
carbon disulfide                    N                                N                                     N                    .............
                                                                                                                               ..:  ...........
                                                                                                                                .............         .............
                                                                                                                               ................................
                           .....................................................................................................................
                           ....................................................................................................................
I -ethy l- I -methy l-      ....................................................................................................................
                           .......................................................
                           ....................    ....        .......                  .................................       ..........................
                                                                 .....................................................................................
                                                                                                                              .................................
                                                                  .....................................................................................
                                                    ................................................................................................
                                                   .............................................
                                                   ..................      ................                                     ..........................
cy clop en tan e                                        ...........
                                                   .................
                                                    ..............
                                                   ................   ................
                                                                     y ...............
                                                   ....................   .......................................
                                                                          ...............   ..............
                                                                                                 ........       ..............
                                                                                                           . ...........       ..............
                                                                                                                                  ............
                                                                                                                               ...............  Y ::...........
                                                             .......                         ..............................    ..          .......
                                                       ..............................................................................................
                                                                                             .............................................................
                                                    ................................................................
                                                                                            ..............................      ..........................
                                                                                             ...............................               .......................
p ropy l-cy clop rop an e           N                                N                        .............
                                                                                            ..............       .......
                                                                                                                .................
                                                                                                                .............        ..........
                                                                                                                                .............        .............
                                                                                             ..............................................................
                                                                                            ..............................      ..........................
                                                                                         ..  ..............................
                                                                                         ................................
decanal                             N . ..          ...
                                                   ..   ..       ...
                                                        . ........
                                                                ......................       ............
                                                                          ..............................
                                                                      ................       ..............
                                                                                            .............
                                                                          ..............................       .........
                                                                                                                ......
                                                    ..............................           ..............................
dihydro-3-(2H)-thiophenone          N                                N                                     N                                    N
                           ....................
Dimethyl sulfide            .........    ........
                           ....................                      N                                     N                                    N
dimethyl sulfone                    N                                N                                     N                                    N
                            ......................................................
                           ....................    ..
dimethyl trisulfide                        ....... ..................
                            ......................................................
                           .......................................................                                                              N
ethanethiol                         N                                N                                     N                                    N
                                                47

                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                     ................................
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                         ..............
eth an o l                                N                                N                                    N                    .............
                                                                                                                                    ..............           ............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                    ................................
1-(I(H)-pyrrol-2-yl)
ethanone                                  N                                N                                    N                                   N
1-(2-furanyl)-ethanone                    N                                N                                    N                                   N
ethosuximide                    .........     .........
                                ....................                       N                                    N                                   N
                                 .......................
                                .......................................................
                                  ........       .......   ...         .......................
form ic acid , h epty l ester    ...........  .  .......
                                   *******************
                                               .........   ***********
                                                          ...............
                                           .........................
                                                           ..............                                                                           N
                                 ......................................................
                                .......................................................
                                ....................                                                                                ..........................
                                ........
                                 .......        ........                                                                             ...............
                                                                                                                                     . ...........
                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                              .....          ............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                         ..............
furan                            .......         .......N
                                                ........                                                        N                            ........................
                                                                                                                                    ..........................
                                ....................
                                       ...
                                 .......         .......
2-ethyl-furan                             ............... N
                                  ...................                                                           N                                   N
                              .  ....................
                                ....................
                                 ..... ....                                                                                          .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                         ..............
2 -h exy l-furan                ....................                       N                                    N                    ..........................
                                                                                                                                    ..........................
                                                                                                                                     ................................
                                                                                                                                     .............
                                                                                                                                    ........             :...............
                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
2-methyl-furan                            N                                N                                    N                            ......        .............
                                                                                                                                                          ..............
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                          .................................
                                                                                ................                               .... ..........................
2 -p entyl-furan                          N                ..............
                                                          .................
                                                          ...............................
                                                                               .                  .............       .............
                                                                                                                       ............  .............
                                                                                                                      ...........................         ..............
                                                               ..........................................................................................................
                                                           ................................................................................................
                                                       . .................................................................................................
                                                           ..............................         .............................................................
                                                                                                   .............                                    ..    ..............
2-propyl-furan                            N                                N                      ............
                                                                                                 ...............
                                                                                                  ............   ...............                      ...............
                                 ....................                                                          . ..............         .......            . ......
                                                                                                 ..............................................................
                                                                                                 ............                        ..........................
3-methyl-furan                                                             N
                                   ................... ............................................
                                ....................                                                            N                                   N
                                                                                                                                     ..........................
                                 ....................................................................................................................
3-p entyl-furan                   .......
                                 .........
                                          ..
                                          ...  ........
                                          Y.........
                                                 .......
                                ...................
                                                           ................
                                                           ...............
                                                                    ........
                                                           ................    ................
                                                                            ................
                                                                               . ......
                                                         *..................................     ...............
                                                                                                  ............
                                                                                                                       ............
                                                                                                                . .............      ...............
                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                      .........................
                                                                                                 ..............................                         .:.............
                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                      ...............
                                                                                                                                     ..........................
                                                                                                                                                                      .....
                                 ....................................................................................................................
                                .....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                  ...................................
furfural                                  N                ..............
                                                          ...............
                                                           ..............       .................
                                                                                ...............
                                                                                ................
                                                                                .......  .......
                                                                                ...............   .                                     ...........
                                                                                                                                       .............         ............
                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                   . ..............
                                                                                                                                                           ............
                                                           .................................
                                                          ..................................
                                                          .................................................................................................
                                                               ...........    ................    ..............
                                                                                                   .............    .............
                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                  ...................................
                                                                                                                  ..............     .                 .  ..............
                                                                                                                    ..............                         .............
                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                      ...............
heptan al                                 N               ..................                                     ...............
                                                                                                                    . ........                        ...
                                                          .................................................................................................
                                                           ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                                            .............
heptanoic acid                            N                                N                                                        ..............
                                                                                                                                     .............
                                                                                                                                    ..............          .............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                          ..............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                N                    .............        ..............
                                                                                                                                    ................................
2-methyl-hex-2-yn-4-one                   N                                N                                    N                                   N
                                                                                                                                    ................................
hexanoic acid                             N                                N                                    N                   ..  ...........
                                                                                                                                     .............          .............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                          ..............
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                     ................................
hydrogen sulfide                          N                                N                                    N                                   N
m-aminophenylacetylene                    N                                N                                    N                                   N
maleic anhydride                          N                                N                                    N                                   N
methacrolein                              N                                N                                    N                                   N
methanethiol                              N                                N                                    N                                   N
methyl ethanoate                          N                                N                                    N                                   N
                                ....................
methyl isobutyl ketone          .........     .........
                                ....................                       N                                    N                                   N
                                                               ...........
                                                           ..............       ...............
                                                                                ...............
n-caproic acid viny l ester               N               ...............       .......
                                                                                .        .........
                                                           .........................................................
                                                          ...........................................................
                                                           ................................................................
                                                          .................................................................
                                                           ................................................................................................
                                                          .................................................................................................
nonanal                                   N               .... :..........      ...............    ............        ............
                                                                                                                      .............  .............          .............
                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                          ..............
                                                          .................................................................................................
                                ................. ................................................................................................
3-methyl-nonane                                                            N                                    N                                   N
nonanoic acid                                                              N                                    N                                   N
                                           ............ .................................................................................................
                                  ...................
                                 ....................      ................................................................................................
                                                          ...............
                                                           ..............                          ............                      .............         .............
                                                                                                                                                     . ......
                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                           ..............       ...............
                                                                                 ....... .............                                .......       Y
                                                                                                                                             .......... ...
                                                                                                                                                         *:*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*
                                                     . ...............          ............................                         ...............      ..............
                                                           ................................................................................................
                                                          .................................................................................................
                                                          ............................          ...............................      ..........................
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                                    ..................
                                                                                                                                                          ..............
o ctan e                                  N                                N                                    N                   ...................
                                                                                                                                    ...............       :..............
                                                                                                                                                        ...  ............
                                                                                                                                                         ..............
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                     ...............
                                                                                                                                     . ............
                                                                                                                                       ...........
                                                                                                                                    ..............         .............
                                                                                                                                                          ..............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
octanoic acid                             N                                N                                    N                    .............        ..............
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                 ....................
                                ....................
                                 ...................
                                ...............
oxalic acid, isobutyl plenty
ester                                                                      N                                    N                                   N
p-cresol                                  N                                N                                    N                                   N
                                                                                                                                     .............
                                                                                                                                        ....      ..      ..............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                           ..      .....
pentanal                                  N                                N                                    N                    ...........
                                                                                                                                    ................................
                                                                                                                                     ................................
                                ....................                                                                                .........................
pentanoic acid                     ........    .........
                                ....................                       N                                    N                    .............
                                                                                                                                    ..............           ............
                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                 ....................                                                                               ..........................
                                                       48

                                                               ..................................      ............................
                                                              .................................................................
                                                                          .....
      4 -eth yl-p h en o l                     N               ..............        ...............    ............
                                                                                                         ...........
                                                                  .............................................................
                                                               ..............................................................
                                                              .................................................................            ...........................
                                       ....................................................................................................................
                                                                                    .xxxxxxxXXXXXXX
                                                                                ..................
                                                                                     ................  ............    .....                 .............   ... ..............
                                                                                                                                                                  .............
      phenylacetaldehyde             X""".:         .
                                                    .........  ..............
                                                               ..............        ...............  ...............
                                                                                                       .............  Y    ...............
                                                                                                                            ............
                                                   ..........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                            .............   ................
                                     ......................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                              .............
                                       .................................................................................................................... Y    ..............
                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                       ....................
                                      ....................
      (p-hydroxyphenyl)-              ....................
                                      ....................
                                      ....................
                                       ....................
      phosphonic acid                 .........    .........                   N                                      N                                     N
                                                                                                                                            ................................
                                                                                                                                               .........................
                                                                                                                                             .............            ..........
      propanal                                 N                               N                                      N                     ..............
                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                            ..............        .............
                                                                                                                                                                 ..............
                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                             ................................
                                                                                                                                            ................................
      2-methyl-propanal                        N                               N                                      N                                     N
      propanoic cid                            N                               N                                      N                                     N
                                      ....................
      2-methyl-propanoic acid . .........           ........
                                                   .........                   N                                      N                                     N
      propanoic acid, ethenyl ester            N                               N                                      N                                     N
                                                              ...................................
                                                               xxxxxxxx                                                                     ..........................
                                                                                                                                                                  .............
      pyrazine                                 N               ..............
                                                              ...............
                                                               ..............        ...............
                                                                       ...........................                                            ............
                                                                                                                                             ..                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                 ..............
                                                                                                                                                              .................
                                                                                                                                                 .........................
                                                               ..................................
                                                              ...................................                                           ..........................
      2-ethyl-5-methyl-pyrazine                N                               N                                      N                                     N
      2-ethyl-6-methyl-pyrazine                N                               N                                      N                                     N
      2,3-dimethyl-pyrazine                    N                               N                                      N                                     N
      2,5-dimethyl-pyrazine                    N                               N                                      N                                     N
                                       ....................
                                      ....................
      3-ethyl-2,5-dim ethyl-          ....................
                                      ....................
                                      ....................
      pyrazine                        ....................                     N                                      N                                     N
      ethyl-pyrazine                           N                               N                                      N                                     N
      methyl-pyrazine                          N                               N                                      N                                     N
                                      ....................
      trimethyl-pyrazine                    ....
                                        ........ L: ........
                                                    .........
                                      ....................
                                       ....................                    N                                      N                                     N
                                      ....................                                            ..............................
      p yridin e                      ....................                     N                      .............   Y:
                                                                                                         ............................
                                                                                                      ..............................
                                       ....................................................................................................................
                                      ....................
                                        .......       .......  ... .........................................
                                                              .......                                                                        ..........................
      pyrrole                         ....................    .         ............................      ..........
                                                                                                              ............  .............
                                                                                                                                   ......    .............         .............
                                                                                                                                             ..........................
                                       ....................................................................................................................
                                      .....................................................................................................................
                                      ....................     ...............................      .  ...................................
                                                                                                      ..............................
      styrene                                                                  N                        ............
                                                                                                       ............         .............                   N
                                      .................
                                       ................
                                      ....................                                             .............................
                                                                                                       .............................
                                                                                                      ..............................
                                       ....................................................................................................................
                                      .....................................................................................................................
                                       ...... A....xxx:                               xxxxxxx:
                                                               iiiiiiiiiiiiiX...............                                .............                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                 ..............
      thiazo le                        .........    .........  ..............
                                                              ...............         ..............
                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                       ...............
                                                                                                       ..             Y....
                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                      ..................................   *.::..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:
                                                                                                                            ..
                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                       ...................................   :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                            ...............
                                       ....................................................................................................................
                                      .....................................................................................................................         ............
                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                  ..............
                                                                                                                                                                   .............
      methyl-thiirane                          N                               N                                      N                                     N
                                                                                                                                            ................................
      thiophene                                N                               N                                      N                      X.
                                                                                                                                            ..  ...........
                                                                                                                                             .............  Y :...*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..*..
                                                                                                                                                                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                 ..............
                                                                                                                                            ................................
                                      ....................                                            ..............................
                                                                                                        ............                         ................................
      2-hexyl-thiophene                .........    ........                   N                        .............
                                      ....................                     ...... ..............  ..............................
                                                              ..................
      2-pentyl-thiophene                       N              ...............
                                                               ..................................                                                           N
                                                              ...................................
                                                              .................................................................
                                                               ..................................
      trans-2-(2-pentenyl)furan                N                        .......
                                                               ..............
                                                                          .....      ...............
                                                                                      ............................
                                                                                     ...........................
                                                              .................................................................
                                                               ................................................................
                                                               ................................................................................................
                                                              .................................................................................................
                                                                ..............                                               ............   ..                   ..............
                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                  ............
      trans-3-nonen-2-one                      N                   ...........        ..............
                                                                                     ...............
                                                                                     ....              ............         ............
                                                                                                                                ..........
                                                                                                                            .......            ...........
                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                            ..                     .............
                                                                                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                       .............................................................
                                                                   ...........                                                  .........
                                                                                                                                ........    ..........................
      undecanoic acid                          N                               N                                      N                                     N
      Total # of Compounds
      Detected:                               54                               63                                    66                                    76
       In samples having fatty or creamy aromas, 2,4-decadienal, (EE)-2,4-nonadienal,
(EE)-2,4-heptadienal, and/or (EE)-2,4-decadienal were detected in the
KPhos6-Beeff-leart, MRM-Beeff-leart, MRMBioLipon95, MRM-NatCholinePC40,
                                                           49

   Kphos6_Canola, MRMCanola, KPhos6_Oleic Acid, KPhos6_Linoleic acid and
   MRMLinoleic acid samples. For (E,E)-2,4-decadienal, the strongest signal intensity
   was in the MRMNatCholinePC40 sample, followed by the MRMLinoleic acid,
   KPhos6_Linoleic acid, MRMBeefHeart, MRM_BioLipon95, KPhos6_BeefHeart,
 5 MRMOleic Acid, and KPhos6_Oleic Acid samples. For (E,E)-2,4-heptadienal, the
   strongest signal intensity was in the MRMNatCholinePC40 sample followed by the
   MRMCanola sample. (E,E)-2,4-heptadienal also was detected in the
   MRMBioLipon95, MRMBeefHeart, and MRMLinoleic acid samples. For (E,E)-2,4
   nonadienal, the strongest signal intensity was in the MRMCanola and MRMLinoleic
10 acid samples. (E,E)-2,4-nonadienal also was detected in the Kphos6_Canola,
   MRMNatCholinePC40, MRM_BioLipon95, MRMBeefHeart, and KPhos6_Linoleic
   acid samples. For 2,4-decadienal, the strongest signal intensity was in the
   MRMLinoleic acid sample. 2,4-decadienal also was detected in KPhos6_Linoleic acid,
   MRMCanola, and KPhos6_Oleic Acid samples.
15         In samples having earthy or mushroom aromas, 3-octen-2-one, 1-octen-3-one, 3
   octanone, and/or 1-octen-3-ol were detected in the KPhos6_BeefHeart, MRMBeefHeart,
   KphosBioLipon95, MRMBioLipon95, KphosNatCholinePC40,
   MRMNatCholinePC40, MRMCanola, KPhos6_Oleic Acid, MRMOleic Acid,
   KPhos6_Linoleic acid, and MRMLinoleic acid samples. For 1-octen-3-ol, the strongest
?0 signal intensity was in the MRMLinoleic acid sample, followed by
   MRMNatCholinePC40, KPhos6_Linoleic acid, MRMBeefHeart, KPhos6_BeefHeart,
   MRMCanola, MRM_BioLipon95, KPhos6_Oleic Acid, and MRMOleic Acid samples.
   3-octanone was detected in the MRMOleic Acid, KPhos6_Linoleic acid, and
   MRMLinoleic acid samples. For 1-octen-3-one, the strongest signal intensity was in the
25 MRMLinoleic acid and MRMBeefHeart samples, followed by KPhos6_Linoleic acid,
   MRMNatCholinePC40, KPhos6_BeefHeart, MRMBioLipon95, MRMOleic Acid,
   and KPhos6_Oleic Acid samples. For 3-octen-2-one, the strongest signal intensity was in
   the KPhos6_Linoleic acid sample, followed by MRM_Linoleic acid,
   MRMNatCholinePC40, KPhos6_BeefHeart, KPhos6_Oleic Acid, MRMOleic Acid,
30 MRMBeefHeart, MRMBioLipon95, MRMCanola, KphosBioLipon95, and
                                                50

   KphosNatCholinePC40. Pyrazine was detected in the MRMCoconut, MRM_C18,
   MRM_C14, and MRMBioLipon95 samples.
           In samples having a nutty and roasted aroma, thiazole and 2-acetylthiazole were
   the most abundant compounds detected, along with pyrazine, methyl pyrazine, trimethyl
 5 pyrazine, and 3-ethyl-2,5-dimethylpyrazine. 2-acetylthiazole was detected in all samples
   with MRM and most abundant in samples with MRMBeefheat, MRMbiolipon95,
   MRMCanola, and MRMcoconut. Thiazole was created in samples with MRM
   Coconut, MRMBeefHeat, MRMBiolipon95, MRMC14, MRM_C18, MRMCanola,
   MRMOleic acid and MRMLinoleic acid and MRMNatCholinePC40. Pyrazine was
10 present in the largest amount in samples with MRM-Coconut, followed by samples
   MRMBeefHeat, MRMBiolipon95, MRMC14, MRM_C18, MRMCanola having
   roughly equal amount, MRMOleic acid and MRMLinoleic acid sample had even less.
   Methyl-pyrazine was present in MRMBiolipon95 and MRMCoconut. 3-ethyl-2,5
   dimethyl- pyrazine and trimethyl- pyrazine, were present only without phospholipids in
15 the MRM.
           In samples having green, vegetable, or grass aromas, 1-heptanol, 1-hepten-3-ol, 1
   hexanol, (E)-2-heptenal, (Z)-2-heptenal, (E)-2-hexenal, 2-pentyl-furan, and/or heptanal
   were detected in the KPhos6_BeefHeart, MRMBeefHeart, Kphos_BioLipon95,
   MRMBioLipon95, Kphos NatCholinePC40, MRMNatCholinePC40, Kphos_C 14,
?0 MRM_C14, KphosC18, MRM_C18, MRMCanola, MRMCoconut, KPhos6_Oleic
   Acid, MRMOleic Acid, KPhos6_Linoleic acid, and MRMLinoleic acid samples. For 2
   pentyl-furan, the strongest signal intensity was in the KPhos6_BeefHeart sample,
   followed by the KPhos6_Linoleic acid, MRM_BioLipon95, MRMLinoleic acid,
   MRMBeefHeart, MRMOleic Acid, MRMNatCholinePC40, MRMCanola,
25 KPhos6_Oleic Acid, and KphosNatCholinePC40 samples. For (E)-2-heptenal, the
   strongest signal intensity was in the MRMBeefHeart, MRMCanola, MRMOleic Acid,
   and KPhos6_Linoleic acid samples, followed by the KPhos6_Oleic Acid,
   MRMBioLipon95, KPhos6_BeefHeart, MRMLinoleic acid, MRMNatCholinePC40,
   KphosBioLipon95, and KphosNatCholinePC40 samples. For (Z)-2-heptenal, the
30 strongest signal intensity was in the MRMLinoleic acid sample. MRMLinoleic acid
                                                 51

   also was detected in the KPhos6_Linoleic acid sample. For heptanal, the strongest signal
   intensity was in the MRMOleic Acid sample, followed by the KPhos6_Oleic Acid,
   MRMC14, MRM_C18, MRMCanola, MRMBeefHeart, MRMNatCholinePC40,
   MRMLinoleic acid, and KPhos6_BeefHeart samples. For, (E)-2-hexenal, the strongest
 5 signal intensity was in the MRMLinoleic acid sample, followed by the
   MRMNatCholinePC40, KPhos6_Linoleic acid, and MRMOleic Acid samples.
            Example 11 - Creation of beefy flavors using complex precursor mixtures
            A formulation was prepared (the "magic mix," see Table 13 containing the
10 estimated concentrations of amino acids, sugars, and other small molecules in beef based
   on their values reported in literature. The magic mix was tested for its ability to produce
   beefy flavors in the presence of LegHemoglobin (LegH). The magic mix and 1% w/v
   LegH were added to the meat replica, pH 6.0 (see Table 4) and baked in a convection
   oven for 7 minutes at 160'C. A control sample was prepared by adding 1% w/v LegH to
15 the meat replica, pH 6.0 and baking in a convection oven for 7 minutes at 160'C.
            The meat replica sample containing only LegH, was compared to the meat replica
   sample containing the magic mix and LegH by a sensory panel and GCMS analysis. Five
   tasters rated the flavored meat replicas for beefiness, bitterness, and levels of savory
   flavors, and off flavors. Each property was rated on a 7 point scale in which 7 was the
?0 highest amount of the specified property (e.g., a standard 80:20 ground beef would be
   rated 7 on the beefy scale). The Magic Mix flavor was rated one point higher in beefy
   character than the LegH only sample (FIG. 1).
            To determine which chemical products were produced upon heating, a solution of
   Magic Mix was prepared with 1% w/v LegH at pH 6.0. The samples were cooked with
25 shaking at 150'C for three minutes, then Solid Phase Micro Extraction (SPME) was
   performed for twelve minutes at 50 0 C to extract the volatile compounds above the
   headspace of the reaction. A search algorithm was used to analyze the retention time and
   mass fingerprint information of the volatile compounds and assign chemical names to
   peaks. Table 14 shows the compounds identified in both the Magic Mix + LegH (MM,
30 average of two samples) and in the LegH alone in buffer (LegH, average of five samples)
                                                 52

   samples. The compounds in Table 14 are listed in order of the retention time (R.T., in
   seconds), and are designated as having a zero peak area (0), or a small (S), medium (M),
   or large (L) average peak area. Hundreds of compounds were identified between the
   samples, many of which are characteristic of beefy aroma, including but not limited to
 5 1,3-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-benzene, 2-methyl 3-furanthiol, and Bis(2-methyl-4,5
   dihydro-3-furyl) disulfide, which increased in the samples containing the Magic Mix and
   LegH.
                                            Table 13
10                        Chemical entities added to the Magic Mix
                                   Chemical entity     mM
                                   Alanine             5.6
                                   Arginine            0.6
                                   Asparagine          0.8
                                   Aspartate           0.8
                                   Cysteine            0.8
                                   Glutamic acid       3.4
                                   Glutamine           0.7
                                   Glycine             1.3
                                   Histidine           0.6
                                   Isoleucine          0.8
                                   Leucine             0.8
                                   Lysine              0.7
                                   Methionine          0.7
                                   Phenylalanine       0.6
                                   Proline             0.9
                                   Threonine           0.8
                                   Tryptophan          0.5
                                   Tyrosine            0.6
                                               53

                           Valine            0.9
                           glucose           5.6
                           Ribose            6.7
                           Maltodextrin      5.0
                           Thiamine          0.5
                           GMP               0.24
                           IMP               0.6
                           Lactic acid       1.0
                           creatine          1.0
                           NaCl              10
                           KCl               10
                           Kphos pH 6.0      10
                                   TABLE 14
Compounds identified with GC-MS analysis in samples with MM and LegH, or
                    LegH alone (average of five samples)
                                                         MM
                                                         with LegH
  R.T.(s) Name                                           LegH alone
  248     acetaldehyde                                   L    S
  256.3   carbon disulfide                               L    S
  264.3   dimethyl sulfide                               S    0
  265     oxalic acid, isobutyl pentyl ester             M    0
  268.1   2,3,4-trimethyl-pentane                        M    0
  269.2   methanethiol                                   S    0
  283.4   propanal                                       M    0
  285.4   octane                                         M    0
  287.1   furan                                          M    0
  295.3   2-methyl-propanal                              L    S
  297.6   acetone                                        L    S
  319.3   2-propenal                                     M    S
  338.1   2-methyl-furan                                 M    S
  342.1   butanal                                        L    S
                                       54

344.2 2,4-dimethyl-1-heptene              M 0
346.3 methacrolein                        M 0
357.4 methyl-thiirane                     L 0
360.2 3-methyl-furan                      S 0
363.7 butanone                            L S
368.9 2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-furan          M S
376.4 2-methyl-butanal                    L M
381.1 3-methyl-butanal                    L M
390.6 isopropyl alcohol                   0 S
399.6 ethanol                             L M
406.2 2-propenoic acid, methyl ester      M 0
408.2 benzene                             S 0
414.4 methyl vinyl ketone                 M 0
416.4 2,2,4,6,6-pentamethyl-heptane       M 0
422.6 2-ethyl-furan                       S 0
438.4 2-ethylacrolein                     M 0
449.9 2-pentanone                         S 0
453.2 pentanal/2,3-butanedione            L 0
453.8 2,3-butanedione                     L M
472.8 4,7-dimethyl-undecane               M S
485.9 2-methyl-pentanal                   M 0
492.6 2-methyl-i -penten- 1-one           S 0
496.6 (E)-3-penten-2-one                  M 0
508.6  1-penten-3-one                     M 0
510.6 trichloromethane                    M M
520.4 p-dithiane-2,5-diol                 M 0
525.5 3-methyl-pentanal                   M 0
535.1 (E)-5-decene                        M 0
536.5 toluene                             M S
537.9 2-butenal                           M S
543.8 4-penten-2-one                      M 0
550.8 methyl thiolacetate                 M 0
683.7 p-xylene                            S 0
727.4 dimethyl selenone                   M 0
738.3 methyl isopropyl disulphide         M 0
755   2-heptanone                         M 0
758.7 heptanal                            L 0
781.9  1,3-diisopropoxy-1,3-dimethyl-1,3- S M
                                  55

       disilacyclobutane
789.4  3-methyl-2-butenal                  M 0
793.4  4-methyl-2-heptanone                M 0
810.4  pyrazine                            M 0
818.8  isothiazole                         S 0
827.1  acetyl valeryl                      M 0
831.8  2-pentyl-furan                      L 0
851    2-methyl-thiazole                   S 0
853.3  isothiocyanato-methane              S 0
870.9  thiazole                            L 0
879.2  styrene                             M 0
890.7   1-(methylthio)-propane             M 0
895.6  methyl-pyrazine                     M 0
910.5  thiocyanic acid, methyl ester       S 0
918.6  4-methylthiazole                    M 0
921.4  2-octanone                          M 0
923.9  2-methyl-cyclopentanone             M 0
927.9  octanal                             L S
934.3  tridecane                           M 0
948.8  trans-2-(2-pentenyl)furan           S 0
961.9   1-hydroxy-2-propanone              M 0
974.5  (E)-2-heptenal                      M 0
987.4  5-methyl-1-undecene                 M 0
993.8  2-hexyl-furan                       M 0
1007.8 7-methyl-(E)-5-undecene             M 0
1024.1 2-methyl-5-(methylthio)-furan,      S 0
1058.6 2-butyl-1-decene                    M 0
1079.3 dimethyl trisulfide                 L S
1085.3 2-nonanone                          M 0
1093.2 nonanal                             L M
1142.3  1,3-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-benzene M 0
1149.6 (E)-2-octenal                       M 0
1164.5  1-heptanol                         M 0
1193.5 methional                           L 0
1198.8 acetic acid                         M S
1207.2 furfural                            M 0
1242.1 2-decanone                          M 0
1250.8 decanal                             M 0
                                    56

1265.2  1-decen-3-one                                 M 0
1283.3 pyrrole                                        M 0
1292.6 5-ethenyl-4-methyl-thiazole                    M 0
1294.3 benzaldehyde                                   L M
1303.7 2-n-octylfuran                                 M 0
1305.6 (E)-2-nonenal                                  M 0
1341.4 1-octanol                                      M 0
1361.1 2-methyl-1(H)-pyrrole                          S 0
1391.7 2-undecanone                                   M 0
1401.2 (E)-2-octen- 1-ol                              M 0
1448   butyrolactone                                  S S
1456.3 (E)-2-decenal                                  M 0
1462.4 phenylacetaldehyde                             L S
1466.3 2-acetylthiazole                               L 0
1471.3 acetophenone                                   M S
1475.4  1-nonanol                                     M 0
1487   methyl (methylthio)methyl disulfide            M 0
1497.1 5-(2-chloroethyl)-4-methylthiazole             L 0
1497.5  1-(ethylthio)-2-(methylthio)-buta- 1,3 -diene L S
1512   3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                      M 0
1518.8 2-nonen-4-one                                  M 0
1531.7 2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                      S 0
1543.9 dodecanal                                      M 0
1551.6 4-ethyl-2-methyl-pyrrole                       S 0
1558.2 3-(methylthio)-propanenitrile                  S 0
1561.2 3-decen-2-one                                  M 0
1613.1 bis(2-methyl-4,5-dihydro-3-furyl) disulfide    M 0
1615.6 1,10-undecadiene                               M 0
1619.5 2-undecenal                                    S 0
1668.9 2-phenylpropenal                               M 0
1692.3 (Z)-3-decen-1-ol, acetate                      M 0
1733.1 3-phenyl-furan                                 S 0
       4-nitrophenyl 2-thiophenecarboxylic acid
1739.7 ester                                          S 0
1741.2 5-formyl-4-methylthiazole                      M 0
       pentanoic acid, 2,2,4-trimethyl-3-hydroxy-,
1749.7 isobutyl ester                                 M 0
1765.5 benzyl alcohol                                 S 0
                                     57

                   pentanoic acid, 2,2,4-trimethyl-3-hydroxy-,
          1774.2   isobutyl ester                                   S          0
          1796.9   dodecanal                                        M          0
          1806.1   (1-ethyl-1-propenyl)-benzene                     S          0
          1825.6    1-undecanol                                     M          S
          1827.9   2-methyl-3-furanthiol                            M          0
          1828.3   2-methyl-3-(methylthio) furan                    M          0
          1836.1   4-chloro-2,6-bis(1,1 -dimethylethyl)-phenol      S          0
          1844.1   phenol                                           S          S
          1845.3   [(methylsulfonyl)methyl]-benzene                 S          0
          1850.3   (e)-2-tridecen- 1-ol                             M          0
                    1-heptyl- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-4-methyl
          1859.9   naphthalene                                      S          0
          1863.2   2,4-decadienal                                   S          0
          1905.1   3,3'-dithiobis[2-methyl]-furan                   M          0
          1906.9   3,5-di-tert-butylbenzoic acid                    S          0
          1909.6   4-ethoxy-benzoic acid, ethyl ester               S          0
          1921.5   3-(phenylmethyl)-2,5-piperazinedione             S          0
          1944.5   9-octadecenal                                    M          0
          1959.7   3,5-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-phenol                M          S
          1968.4   4-methyl-5-thiazoleethanol                       M          S
          2007.8   1, 1'-(1,2-cyclobutanediyl)bis-cis-benzene       S          0
          2019.8   benzoic acid                                     S          S
          2026.4   4-quinolinecarboxaldehyde                        S          0
          2027.8   m-aminophenylacetylene                           M          0
           Example 12 - Ferrous Chlorin Catalyzes Production of Meat-like flavor
   compounds
 5         Fresh green spinach (10 lb) was added to 500 mL water and finely ground in a
   Vitamix blender to yield 2 L of green suspension. Acetone (8L) was added with mixing
   and the material was allowed to extract for 1 hour. The material was filtered through
   Whatman filter paper and the acetone was removed on a rotary evaporator (Buchi). To
   the residual green suspension (500 mL) was added 2 mL of 10 M HCl, causing the
10 suspension to turn brown. To this was added Ig of FeCl 2 .4H 20 in 10 mL H 20. The
                                                 58

   solution was shaken then left at 4'C for 16 hours. This suspension was extracted with
   diethyl ether (3x5OmL) to give a bright green organic phase, the combined organics were
   washed with saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   evaporated to leave a black paste (1.1 g). The pellet was dissolved in chloroform for
 5 fractionation.
           Chlorophyll and Ferrous chlorin crude fractions were stored at -20'C. Crude
   extracts were fractionated by reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography (RP
   HPLC). HPLC conditions are outlined in Table 15. Both chlorophyll and ferrous
   chlorophyll were eluted from the column with a peak retention time of 7.6 minutes.
10 Eluted material was collected from 7.3 - 8.0 minutes. Collected fractions were pooled
   and stored on ice. Collected fractions were re-chromatographed and showed a single
   peak with retention time 7.6 minutes. The desired fractions were pooled, then 10%
   sunflower oil was added, methanol was removed on a rotary evaporator (Buchi).
15                                          TABLE 15
      HPLC conditions for purification of chlorophyll and ferrous chlorin from crude
                                              extract.
   Sample:                   Chlorophyll or Fe-chlorin (~2mg/mL in CHCl 3)
   System:                   Agilent 1100 with Chemstation
   Column:                   Zorbax Bonus-RP (4.6 x 250 mm, 5uM)
   Mobile phase:             acetonitrile, methanol, ethyl acetate (60:20:20) isocratic flow
   Temperature:              30 0 C
   Flow Rate:                1.0 mL per minute
   Injection volume:         0.05 mL
   Preparation of Flavor Reaction Containing Ferrous Chlorin or Leghemoglobin
20         A solution of ferrous chlorophyll was mixed with the Magic Mix (Table 13) to a
   final concentration of 0.35% ferrous chlorin, 1% glycerol, 0.005% tween-20, 5%
   sunflower oil, 100 mM NaCl, 20 mM phosphate at pH 6. Leghemoglobin (0.35 %) at pH
   6 in phosphate buffer (20 mM), 100 mM NaCl, was mixed with the Magic Mix (Table
                                                 59

   13), 1% glycerol, and 0.005 % tween-20. The flavor reaction mixtures were heated to
   150'C for 3 minutes; this reaction created flavor compounds known to be present in
   meat, created by hemoglobin and also created by ferrous chlorin; see Table 16.
           The characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly produced during
 5 the cooking process when the flavor precursor molecules reacted with the heme-protein
   or the ferrous chlorophyll. Samples were evaluated by GCMS to identify the flavor
   compounds generated after heating. Volatile chemicals were isolated from the headspace
   around the flavor reactions. The profile of the volatile chemicals in the headspace around
   the flavor reaction mixtures that were similar between heme-protein and ferrous chlorin
10 are shown in Table 16. Notabily, many of the compounds created by the ferrous chlorin
   are important in the flavor of meat.
                                            TABLE 16
     Flavor Compounds created by both Ferrous Chlorin and LegH with Magic Mix.
                  1-heptanol                              acetone
                  1-hexanol                               acetonitrile
                  1-octanol                               benzaldehyde
                  1-octen-3-ol                            butanal
                  1-octen-3-one                           2-methyl-butanal
                  1-pentanol                              dimethyl trisulfide
                  2-acetylthiazole                        ethyl acetate
                  2-butenal                               furan
                  3-methyl-2-butenal,                     2-ethyl-furan
                  (Z)-2-decenal                           2-hexyl furan
                  6-methyl-2-heptanone                    2-pentyl-furan
                  (E)-2-heptenal                          furfural
                  (E)-2-hexenal                           heptanal
                  2-methyl-3 -furanthiol                  aminophenylacetylene
                  (E)-2-nonenal                           methacrolein
                  (E)-2-octenal                           methional
                  2-pentanone                             octanal
                  1-hydroxy-2-propanone                   octane
                  2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde               oxalic acid, diallyl ester
                  2-undecenal                             2,3-butanedione
                                                60

                   3-methyl-3-buten-2-one                   2-methyl-propanal
                   3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde                pyrazine
                   (E)-4-octene,                            2,3-dimethyl-pyrazine
                   methyl-pyrazine                          2,5-dimethyl-pyrazine
                   thiazole
   Example 13 - Flavor creation by immobilized Hemin
   Preparation of hemin linked CM Sepharose.
           200 mg of bovine hemin (Sigma Aldrich) was loaded into a scintillation vial. A
 5 small magnetic stir bar, 800 gL acetonitrile, 64 gL 4-methylmorpholine, and 71 mg of N
   hydroxysuccinimide were added in that order. The vial was placed in an ice bath and
   chilled then 118 mg of N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethyl-carbodiimide hydrochloride
   was added with stirring, followed by 845 gL of Jeffamine ED900. This was stirred while
   allowing the black mixture to warm to ambient temperature. Chloroform (10 mL) was
10 added to the mixture followed by water (4 mL). A flashlight was used to distinguish
   between organic and aqueous layers since both were black and the organic layer was
   pipetted off and concentrated to a dark black oil. The oil was dissolved in a 4:1 mixture
   of acetonitrile and ethanol to make an approximately 10% strength solution that was inky
   black in color.
15         2 mL of water swelled and equilibrated CM Sepharose was equilibrated in a
   BioRad minicolumn with 3 volumes of acetonitrile. The resin was resuspended in 1 mL
   acetonitrile and pipetted into a scintillation vial. This was followed with 44 microliters 4
   methylmorpholine, 23 mg N-hydroxysuccinimide, and 39 mg of solid N-(3
   dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethyl-carbodiimide hydrochloride. The mixture was vortexed
20 vigorously and then shaken for three hours. To this white solid was added 570
   microliters of inky black 20% strength hemin coupled diamine. The black solid was
   vortexed and shaken for an hour. The slurry strongly resembled Turkish coffee. The
   mixture was poured into a BioRad minicolumn and filtered, washed with acetonitrile
   until what came out no longer resembled espresso, then switched to deionized water, and
25 finally 20 mM pH 9 sodium carbonate buffer. The black solid was washed until the
   effluent ran clear and then resuspended in 2 mL of buffer for storage until use.
                                                  61

   Flavor reaction
            The flavor reaction was created with heme protein (equine myoglobin -Sigma) at
   0.35% in a phosphate buffer (20 mM) at pH 6.0 with 100 mM NaCl , this was mixed with
 5 Magic Mix (Table 13). Another flavor reaction was created with Immobilized Hemin at
   0.35% in a phosphate buffer (20 mM) at pH 6.0 with 100 mM NaCl, this was mixed with
   Magic Mix (Table 13). The flavor reaction mixtures were heated to 150'C for 3 minutes;
   this reaction created flavor compounds known to be present in meat.
            The characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly produced during
10 the cooking process when the flavor precursor molecules reacted with the Heme-protein
   or the immobilized Hemin. Samples were evaluated by GCMS to identify the flavor
   compounds generated after heating. Volatile chemicals were isolated from the headspace
   around the flavor reactions. As can be seen in Table 17, immobilized hemin catalyzed
   production of compounds similar to those whose production was catalyzed by myoglobin
15 free in solution. Notably, the profiles of flavor compounds, measured by GCMS,
   produced by cooking mixtures containing the immobilized hemin and the heme-protein,
   respectively, were very similar.
20                                           TABLE17
    Flavor compounds produced by cooking mixtures containing either myoglobin free
                         in solution or hemin coupled to a solid support
             Flavor compound                 myoglobin          hemin-linker-resin
     2-methyl-5 -(methylthio)-thiophene      Low
     dihydro-5 -propyl-2(3H)-furanone        Low
     octane                                  Low
    pyrrole                                  Low                Low
    methanethiol                             Low                Low
     2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde               Low                Low
    methyl-pyrazine                          Low                Low
     1-hydroxy-2-propanone                   Low                Low
    propanal                                 Low                Low
                                                  62

thiophene                       Low     medium
pyridine                        Low     Low
2-methyl-furan                  Low     medium
oxalic acid, butyl propyl ester Low     Low
pyrazine                        medium  Low
oxalic acid, diallyl ester      medium  medium
2-butenal                       medium  large
furfural                        medium  medium
nonanal                         medium  medium
2-ethyl-furan                   medium  Low
ethanol                         medium  very larg
tert-butanol                    medium
3,3'-dithiobis[2-methyl]-furan  medium  medium
m-aminophenylacetylene          medium  medium
2,5-dihydro-3,4-dimethyl-furan  medium  medium
2-acetylthiazole                medium  medium
cyclohexane                     medium
ethyl tert-butyl ether          medium
carbon disulfide                medium  medium
thiazole                        medium  medium
acetonitrile                    medium  large
2-pentyl-furan                  medium  Low
3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde       medium  medium
2-methyl-butanal                medium  medium
thiazole                        medium  large
2-methyl-3-furanthiol           larege  large
2-propenal                      large   large
3-methyl-2-butenal              large   medium
2-methyl-3-(methylthio) furan   large   large
ethyl acetate                   large   medium
methacrolein                    large   medium
methyl-thiirane                 large   large
methional                       large   large
methyl alcohol                  large   medium
2-butanone                      large   Low
2,3-butanedione                 large   medium
acetone                         large   large
furan                           large   medium
                                     63

    benzaldehyde                            large              medium
    methyl thiolacetate                     large              medium
     acetaldehyde                          very large          very large
     2-methyl-propanal                     very large          very large
     dimethyl trisulfide                   very large          very large
     3-methyl-butanal                      very large         very large
    propyl-cyclopropane                                        medium
     (E)-2-octenal                                             medium
     2-n-propylaziridine                                       medium
    thiirane                                                   medium
     ethyl formate                                             medium
    methyl vinyl ketone                                        medium
     2-propenoic acid, ethyl ester                             medium
     1-nonanol                                                 large
     1-octene                                                  large
     1-heptanol                                                large
     1-dodecene                                                large
    phorone                                                    very large
   Example 14. The combination of precursors with Heme protein drives flavor
   reactions.
            Three samples were compared: precursor mix alone, 1%heme protein alone, and
 5 precursor mix with    l% heme. The precursor mix was made of glucose (20 mM), ribose
   (20 mM), cysteine (10 mM), thiamine (1 mM), and glutamic acid (1 mM). Reactions
   were all at pH 6.0, prepared and heated to 150'C for 3 minutes. These three samples were
   run in duplicate. These samples were evaluated by GCMS for the flavor compounds
   generated. Characteristic flavor and fragrance components were mostly produced during
10 the cooking process where precursors could react with the heme-protein. These samples
   were evaluated by GCMS for the flavor compounds generated and evaluated for the
   sensory experience. Volatile chemicals were isolated from the head space around the
   flavor reaction. The flavor compounds created in each sample is indicated in Table 18. As
   shown most of the flavor molecules were created on when the precursors are combined
15 with the heme protein.
                                                64

                                 Table 18
Flavor molecules created by the combination of LegH and precursor mix.
                              Precursor               Precursor
   Compound                    mix        LegH        mix + Leg H
   carbon disulfide           medium      medium      high
   isopropyl alcohol          medium      medium      low
   2-methyl-furan             low                     low
   butanal                     low                    medium
   thiophene                   low                    low
   2,3-butanedione             low        low         high
   furan                       low                    medium
   2,4-dimethyl-1-heptene                 high        high
   acetone                                high        high
   dimethyl trisulfide                    medium      medium
   2-methyl-heptane                       medium      medium
   2-pentanone                            medium
   pentanal                               medium      medium
   2-pentyl-furan                         medium      medium
   2-methyl-propanal                      low         high
   2-acetatyl- 1-propene                  low         low
   2-methyl-butanal                       low         medium
   1,3-dimethyl-benzene                   low         low
   octane                                 low         low
   benzene                                low         low
   benzaldehyde                                       very high
   2-butanone                                         very high
   furfural                                           very high
   thiazole                                           high
   nonanal                                            high
   thiazole                                           high
   2-acetylthiazole                                   medium
   3-methyl-butanal                                   medium
   (Z)-2-heptenal                                     medium
   heptanal                                           medium
   methyl-thiirane                                    medium
   3-ethyl-pentane                                    medium
   phenylacetaldehyde                                 medium
   2-hexyl-furan                                      medium
                                   65

             2-nonanone                                                medium
             propanal                                                  medium
             pyrazine                                                  medium
             (Z)-2-heptenal                                            medium
             2-methyl-1 -heptene                                       medium
             2-ethyl-furan                                             medium
             octanal                                                   medium
             (E)-4-octene                                              low
             (E)-2-octenal                                             low
             2-methyl-thiazole                                         low
             2-propenal                                                low
             1-octen-3-one                                             low
             1-octene                                                  low
             2-octanone                                                low
             dimethyl sulfide                                          low
             3-pentyl-furan                                            low
             2-n-octylfuran                                            low
             2-pentyl-thiophene                                        low
                                  OTHER EMBODIMENTS
          It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction
5 with the detailed description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate
  and not limit the scope of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended
  claims. Other aspects, advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the
  following claims.
                                                 66

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1 1.       A food product comprising:
 2          a) a highly conjugated heterocyclic ring complexed to iron ion; and
 3          b) one or more flavor precursor molecules selected from the group consisting of
 4 glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose
 5 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound
 6 sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, inosine monophosphate (IMP),
 7 guanosine monophosphate (GMP), pyrazine, adenosine monophosphate (AMP), lactic
 8 acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal
 9 oil, sunflower oil, corn oil, soybean oil, palm fruit oil, palm kernel oil, safflower oil,
10 flaxseed oil, rice bran oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, sunflower oil, canola oil, flaxseed oil,
11 coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine,
12 phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine,
13 aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino
14 acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone.
15 2.       The food product of claim 1, wherein said highly conjugated heterocyclic ring
16 complexed to an iron ion is selected from the group consisting of a heme moiety, and a
17 porphyrin, a porphyrinogen, a corrin, a corrinoid, a chlorin, a bacteriochorophyll, a
18 corphin, a chlorophyllin, a bacteriochlorin, and an isobacteriochlorin moiety complexed
19 to iron ion.
20 3.   The food product of claim 2, wherein said heme moiety is a heme-containing protein,
21 a heme moiety bound to a non-peptidic polymer; or a heme moiety bound to a solid
22 support.
23
24 4. The food product of claim 2, wherein said highly conjugated heterocyclic ring
25 complexed to iron is ferrous chlorin.
26
                                                   67

 27 5.        A food product comprising:
 28           a) a heme-containing protein; and
 29           b) one or more flavor precursor molecules selected from the group consisting of
 30 glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose
 31 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound
 32 sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, inosine monophosphate (IMP),
 33 guanosine monophosphate (GMP), pyrazine, adenosine monophosphate (AMP), lactic
 34 acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, sunflower oil, canola
 35 oil, flaxseed oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine,
 36 isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine,
 37 histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine,
 38 tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a hydrolyzed protein, a malt extract, a
 39 yeast extract, and a peptone.
 1o
 11 6. The food product of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said food product comprises two
 12      to fifty flavor precursors.
 13
 14 7.        The food product of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said food product comprises
 15 two to forty flavor precursors.
 16
 17 8.        The food product of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said food product comprises
48  two to thirty-five flavor precursors.
49
so  9.        The food product of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said food product comprises
51  two to ten flavor precursors.
52
53  10.       The food product of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said food product comprises
54  two to six flavor precursors.
55
                                                   68

56 11.      The food product of any one of claims 1-10, wherein said one or more flavor
57 precursor molecules are selected from the group consisting of glucose, ribose, sucrose,
58 maltose, cysteine, a cysteine derivative, thiamine, lysine, a lysine derivative, glutamic
59 acid, a glutamic acid derivative, IMP, GMP, lactic acid, maltodextrin, creatine, alanine,
30 arginine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, histidine, isoleucine,
31 leucine, methionine, phenylalanine, proline, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine, valine,
32 linoleic acid, lecithin, and mixtures thereof.
33
34 12.      The food product of any one of claims 3-11, wherein the heme-containing protein
35 is a plant heme-containing protein.
36
37 13.      The food product of any one of claims 3-11, wherein the heme-containing protein
38 is a mammalian heme-containing protein.
39
TO 14.      The food product of any one of claims 3-11, wherein the heme-containing protein
r1 is a yeast or filamentous fungus heme-containing protein.
12
73 15.      The food product of any one of claims 3-11, wherein the heme-containing protein
14 is a bacterial or archeal heme-containing protein.
75
76 16.      The food product of any one of claims 3-12, wherein the heme-containing protein
77 is a non-symbiotic hemoglobin.
78
79 17.      The food product of any one of claims 3-12, wherein the heme-containing protein
80 is a leghemoglobin.
81
82 18.      The food product of claim 17, wherein the leghemoglobin is a from soybean,
83 alfalfa, lupin, fava bean, pea, cow pea, or lupine.
84
                                                  69

 35 19.      The food product of any one of claims 12-18, wherein the heme-containing
 36 protein is recombinantly produced, chemically synthesized, or transcribed and translated
 37 in vitro.
 38
 39 20.      The food product of any one of claims 3-19, wherein the heme-containing protein
 30 comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% sequence identity to a polypeptide
 31 set forth in SEQ ID NOs:1-26.
 32
 33 21.      The food product of any one of claims 1-20, wherein said heme-containing
 M4 protein is isolated and purified.
 35
 36 22.      The food product of any one of claim 1-2 1, further comprising a food-grade oil, a
 P7 seasoning agent, a flavoring agent, a protein, a protein concentrate, an emulsifier, a
 38 gelling agent, or a fiber.
 39
 >0 23.      The food product of any one of claims 1-18, wherein said food product is a meat
 >1 substitute.
 )2
 >3 24.      The food product of any one of claim 1-19, wherein said food product is a soup
 >4 base, stew base, snack food, bouillon powder, bouillon cube, or a flavor packet.
 >5
06  25.      The food product of any one of claims 1-20, wherein said food product is free of
07  animal products.
08
09  26.      The food product of any one of claims 1-2 1, wherein said food product is a frozen
10  food product.
11
12  27.      The food product of any one of claims 1-22, wherein said food product is sealed
13  within a packet or shaker.
14
                                                 70

15 28.      A method for producing a flavor compound, said method comprising:
16          a) combining a highly conjugated heterocyclic ring complexed to iron ion with
17 one or more flavor precursor molecules to form a mixture, said one or more flavor
18 precursor molecules selected from the group consisting of glucose, ribose, fructose,
19 arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol,
20 maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a
21 phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, inosine monophosphate (IMP), guanosine
22 monophosphate (GMP), pyrazine, adenosine monophosphate (AMP), lactic acid, succinic
23 acid, glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, sunflower
24 oil, cottonseed oil, soybean oil, corn oil, palm fruit oil, palm seed oil, rice bran oil,
25 safflower oil, olive oil, canola oil, flaxseed oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid,
26 cysteine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan,
27 valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine,
28 proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a
29 malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone; and
30          b) heating the mixture to form one or more flavor compounds selected from the
31 group consisting of phenylacetaldehyde, 1-octen-3-one, 2-n-heptylfuran, 2
32 thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, butyrolactone, 2-undecenal,
33 methyl-pyrazine, furfural, 2-decanone, pyrrole, 1-octen-3-ol, 2-acetylthiazole, 2-(E)
34 octenal, decanal, benzaldehyde, (E)-2-nonenal, pyrazine, 1-hexanol, 1-heptanol, dimethyl
35 trisulfide, 2-nonanone, 2-pentanone, 2-heptanone, 2,3-butanedione, heptanal, nonanal, 2
36 octanone, 1-octanol, 3-ethylcyclopentanone, 3-octen-2-one, (E,E)-2,4-heptadienal, (Z)-2
37 heptenal, 6-methyl-2-heptanone, (Z)-4-heptenal, (E,Z)-2,6-nonadienal, 3-methyl-2
38 butenal, 2-pentyl-furan, thiazole, (E,E)-2,4-decadienal, hexanoic acid, 1-ethyl-5
39 methylcyclopentene, (E,E)-2,4-nonadienal, (Z)-2-decenal, dihydro-5-pentyl-2(3H)
40 furanone, trans-3-nonen-2-one, (E,E)-3,5-octadien-2-one, (Z)-2-octen-1-ol, 5
41 ethyldihydro-2(3H)-furanone, 2-butenal, 1-penten-3-ol, (E)-2-hexenal, formic acid,
42 heptyl ester, 2-pentyl-thiophene, (Z)-2-nonenal, 2-hexyl-thiophene, (E)-2-decenal, 2
43 ethyl-5-methyl-pyrazine, 3-ethyl-2,5-dimethyl-pyrazine, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, thiophene, 2
44 methyl-furan, pyridine, butanal, 2-ethyl-furan, 3-methyl-, butanal, 2-methyl-, butanal,
                                                  71

 $5 methacrolein, 2-methyl-propanal, propanal, acetaldehyde, 2-propyl-furan, dihydro-5
 16 propyl-2(3H)-furanone, 1,3-hexadiene, 4-decyne, pentanal, 1-propanol, heptanoic acid,
 17 ethanethiol, 1-butanol, 1-penten-3-one, dimethyl sulfide, 2-ethyl furan, 2-pentyl
 18 thiophene, 2-Propenal, 2-Tridecen-1-ol, 4-Octene, 2-methyl thiazole,, methyl-pyrazine, 2
 19 butanone, 2-pentyl-furan, 2-methyl-propanal, butyrolactone,, 3-methyl-butanal, methyl
 50 thiirane, 2-hexyl-furan, butanal,, 2-methyl-butanal, trichloromethane, 2-methyl-furan,
 51 furan, octanal, 2-Heptenal, 1-Octene, heptyl ester formic acid, 3-pentyl-furan, and 4
 52 penten-2-one.
 53
 54 29.      The method of claim 28, wherein said highly conjugated heterocyclic ring
 55 complexed to an iron ion is selected from the group consisting of a heme moiety, and a
 56 porphyrin, a porphyrinogen, a corrin, a corrinoid, a chlorin, a bacteriochorophyll, a
 57 corphin, a chlorophyllin, a bacteriochlorin, or an isobacteriochlorin moiety complexed to
 58 iron ion.
 59
 30 30.      The method of claim 29, wherein said heme moiety is a heme-containing protein,
 31 a heme moiety bound to a non-peptidic polymer; or a heme moiety bound to a solid
 32 support.
 33
 34 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said heme moiety is a heme-containing protein.
 35
66  32. The method of claim 29, wherein said highly conjugated heterocyclic ring complexed
67       to an iron ion is ferrous chlorin.
68
69  33.      The method of any one of claims 28-32, said method comprising combining
70  cysteine, ribose, lactic acid, lysine, and/or thiamine with said highly conjugated
71  heterocyclic ring complexed to iron.
72
73  34.      A method for producing a flavor compound, said method comprising:
                                                   72

 r4          a) combining a heme-containing protein, cysteine, and a sugar, and one or more
 15 optional flavor precursor molecules to form a mixture, said one or more optional flavor
 76 precursor molecules selected from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, ribose,
 77 arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol,
 78 maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a
 79 phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, IMP, GMP, pyrazine, AMP, lactic acid, succinic acid,
 30 glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, sunflower oil,
 31 cottonseed oil, soybean oil, corn oil, palm fruit oil, palm seed oil, rice bran oil, safflower
 32 oil, olive oil, canola oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, methionine, isoleucine,
 33 leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine,
 34 asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione,
 35 an amino acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a
 36 peptone; and
 37          b) heating the mixture to form one or more flavor compounds set forth in Table 3,
 38 8, 9, 12, 14, 16, or 17.
 39
 )o 35.      A method for imparting a meat-like flavor to a food product comprising
 31 contacting said food product with a flavoring composition, said flavoring composition
 )2 comprising i) a heme-containing protein; and ii) one or more flavor precursor molecules
 )3 selected from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6
 34 phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose,
95  maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin,
96  inosine, IMP, GMP, pyrazine, AMP, lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine,
97  creatine, pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, sunflower oil, cottonseed oil, soybean
98  oil, corn oil, palm fruit oil, palm seed oil, rice bran oil, safflower oil, olive oil, sunflower
99  oil, canola oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine, isoleucine,
oo  leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine,
01  asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione,
02  an amino acid derivative, a hydrolyzed protein, a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a
                                                     73

 33 peptone; wherein after heating said food product and said flavoring composition together,
 )4 a meat-like flavor is imparted to said food product.
 )5
 )6 36.     The method of claim 35, wherein said meat-like flavor is a beef-like, chicken-like,
 )7 pork-like, lamb-like flavor, or turkey-like.
 )8
 39 37.     The method of claim 35 or claim 36, wherein said flavoring composition further
 10 comprises a seasoning agent, a flavoring agent, a protein, a protein concentrate, or an
 11 emulsifier.
 12
 13 38.     The method of any one of claims 35-37, wherein said flavoring composition is
 14 sealed within a packet or shaker.
 15
 16 39.     A method of making a food product, said method comprising combining an
 17 isolated heme-containing protein and one or more flavor precursor molecules to form a
 18 mixture, said one or more flavor precursor molecules selected from the group consisting
 19 of glucose, fructose, ribose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate,
 20 fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen, nucleotide
 21 bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, IMP, GMP, pyrazine, AMP,
 22 lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine, pyrophosphate, sunflower oil,
 23 canola oil, flaxseed oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, cysteine, methionine,
24  isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine,
25  histidine, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine,
26  tyrosine, glutathione, an amino acid derivative, a hydrolyzed protein, a malt extract, a
27  yeast extract, and a peptone; and heating the mixture.
28
29  40.     A method for producing a flavor compound, said method comprising:
30          a) incubating a heme-moiety bound to a solid support with one or more flavor
31  precursor molecules, said one or more flavor precursor molecules selected from the group
32  consisting of cysteine, ribose, glucose, fructose, arabinose, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose
                                                   74

33 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, inositol, maltose, sucrose, maltodextrin, glycogen,
34 nucleotide-bound sugars, molasses, a phospholipid, a lecithin, inosine, inosine
35 monophosphate (IMP), guanosine monophosphate (GMP), pyrazine, adenosine
36 monophosphate (AMP), lactic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, thiamine, creatine,
37 pyrophosphate, vegetable oil, algal oil, sunflower oil, cottonseed oil, soybean oil, corn
38 oil, palm fruit oil, palm seed oil, rice bran oil, safflower oil, olive oil, canola oil, flaxseed
39 oil, coconut oil, mango oil, a free fatty acid, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine,
to phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, arginine, histidine, alanine, asparagine,
11 aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, glutathione, an amino
12 acid derivative, a protein hydrolysate, a malt extract, a yeast extract, and a peptone; and
13         b) heating the heme-moiety bound to said solid support and one or more flavor
14 precursors to form one or more flavor compounds selected from the group consisting of
1s phenylacetaldehyde, 1-octen-3-one, 2-n-heptylfuran, 2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3
16 thiophenecarboxaldehyde, butyrolactone, 2-undecenal, methyl-pyrazine, 2-furfural,
17 decanone, pyrrole, 1-octen-3-ol, 2-acetylthiazole, (E)-2-octenal, decanal, benzaldehyde,
18 (E)-2-nonenal, pyrazine, 1-hexanol, 1-heptanol, dimethyl trisulfide, 2-nonanone, 2
19 pentanone, 2-heptanone, 2,3-butanedione, heptanal, nonanal, 2-octanone, 1-octanol, 3
50 ethylcyclopentanone, 3-octen-2-one, (E,E)-2,4-heptadienal, (Z)-, 2-heptenal, 6-methyl-2
51 heptanone, (Z)-4-heptenal, (E,Z)-2,6-nonadienal, 3-methyl-2-butenal, 2-pentyl-furan,
52 thiazole, (E,E)-2,4-decadienal, hexanoic acid, 1-ethyl-5-methylcyclopentene, (E,E)-2,4
53 nonadienal, (Z)-2-decenal, dihydro-5-pentyl-2(3H)-furanone, trans-3-nonen-2-one, (E,E)
54 3,5-octadien-2-one, (Z)-2-octen-1-ol, 5-ethyldihydro-2(3H)-furanone, 2-butenal, 1
55 penten-3-ol, (E)-2-hexenal, formic acid, heptyl ester, 2-pentyl-thiophene, (Z)-2-nonenal,
56 2-hexyl-thiophene, (E)-2-decenal, 2-ethyl-5-methyl-pyrazine, 3-ethyl-2,5-dimethyl
57 pyrazine, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, thiophene, 2-methyl-furan, pyridine, butanal, 2-ethyl-furan,
58 3-methyl-butanal, 2-methyl-butanal, methacrolein, 2-methyl-propanal, propanal,
59 acetaldehyde, 2-propyl-furan, dihydro-5-propyl-2(3H)-furanone, 1,3-hexadiene, 4
60 decyne, pentanal, 1-propanol, heptanoic acid, ethanethiol, 1-butanol, 1-penten-3-one,
61 dimethyl sulfide, 2-ethyl furan, 2-pentyl-thiophene, 2-propenal, 2-tridecen-1-ol, 4-octene,
62 2-methyl thiazole, methyl-pyrazine, 2-butanone, 2-pentyl-furan, 2-methyl-propanal,
                                                  75

33 butyrolactone, 3-methyl-butanal, methyl-thiirane, 2-hexyl-furan, butanal,, 2-methyl
34 butanal, trichloromethane, 2-methyl-furan, furan, octanal, 2-heptenal, 1-octene, heptyl
35 ester formic acid, 3-pentyl-furan, and 4-penten-2-one.
                                  Impossible Foods Inc.
            Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                               SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                               76

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270D><U+261B><U+270F>
              <U+2711>   <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2711> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271F><U+270E><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2724><U+261B><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2713><U+2725><U+2722><U+271E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2722><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2726><U+2722><U+2727> <U+2724><U+2726><U+2726><U+271F><U+261E><U+270E><U+270D><U+261B><U+270F>
                <U+270E><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2726><U+270C><U+2724><U+2605><U+2722><U+2727> <U+2724><U+261B><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2727><U+2722><U+2713><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2727><U+2722><U+2726><U+270D><U+270C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2726> <U+261E><U+2722><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+2713><U+2724><U+2729><U+270C><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2711> <U+272A><U+2701><U+2712> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+2704><U+272C><U+272D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+260E><U+272E><U+2722>
              <U+2711> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2712> <U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+2706> <U+2718><U+2702>
              <U+2711> <U+260E> <U+2712> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+272A><U+272D><U+2701><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2711> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2704> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2701><U+272B><U+2718><U+2704><U+272A><U+2706>
              <U+2711> <U+260E> <U+2712> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+272A><U+272D> <U+272D><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2711> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2704> <U+272F><U+272C><U+260E> <U+2718><U+272B> <U+2704>
              <U+2711> <U+260E> <U+2712> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+272A><U+272D><U+2701> <U+272D>
              <U+2711> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2702><U+272C>
              <U+2711> <U+272C><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2714><U+2731><U+2732><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2733><U+2734><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2717><U+2719><U+2735><U+2734><U+2736><U+2731> <U+2605><U+2737><U+2715><U+2731><U+2717><U+2734><U+2719> <U+2706><U+271B><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+2712> <U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+272A><U+2712> <U+2605><U+2717><U+2738><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2735><U+2717><U+2714><U+2732><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>    <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714>   <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>
                                 <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+270E><U+2715><U+273D>    <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>   <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C>
                            <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>    <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737>   <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719>   <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>
                       <U+272A><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>    <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738> <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B>   <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719>   <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+271C><U+2717><U+2731>    <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737>   <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+261E><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+272C><U+2701>                    <U+272C><U+260E>                    <U+272B><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738>    <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B>   <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715>   <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719>
                                <U+272B><U+260E>                   <U+2730><U+2701>                     <U+2730><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C>    <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2717><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738>   <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2717><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715>    <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A>   <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714>
                          <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270E><U+2715><U+273D>    <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>   <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2715><U+273D> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A>   <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714>
                    <U+272A><U+2701>                    <U+272A><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+273C><U+2715> <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B>    <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270E><U+273C><U+2715>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+2712> <U+272A><U+272A>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2711><U+2702> <U+272A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732><U+2739><U+273C><U+273B><U+2714><U+271A><U+2717><U+2735><U+2717><U+273D><U+2739><U+2717><U+273B><U+273A><U+273E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2733><U+2737><U+2715><U+2719><U+2734><U+2715><U+273A><U+273E>
              <U+2711><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>    <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+270E><U+2715><U+273D> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>   <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738>
                               <U+260E>                      <U+2701>                     <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>    <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>   <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270E><U+273C><U+2715> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719>   <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>
                          <U+2702><U+2701>                     <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734>    <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2739><U+2737>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715>
                      <U+272A><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2715> <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738> <U+270C><U+273C><U+2731>    <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2732> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C>   <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273B> <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273A>    <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270D><U+273B><U+2737> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2734> <U+270E><U+2739><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A>   <U+270F><U+273B><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2731><U+273D> <U+270C><U+2737><U+273A> <U+270F><U+273B><U+273C>   <U+2724><U+2715><U+2738>
                                                      <U+2725><U+2714><U+2738><U+2737>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>                  <U+271E><U+260E>                      <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>     <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F>
                              <U+271F><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>                  <U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2723><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719>     <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>     <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
                        <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2719><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>
                   <U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2701><U+272A> <U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+272A> <U+2605><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2702><U+272A> <U+271A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2605><U+272A> <U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+270C><U+272D><U+2719><U+272E> <U+2716><U+2719><U+271B><U+2712><U+270C><U+272F><U+271C><U+270D>
              <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A> <U+2605>
              <U+2726><U+2719><U+2727> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>   <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F>   <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2719><U+2727> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>
                      <U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>
                               <U+271F><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2701>                     <U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2723><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717>   <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>   <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B>
                   <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2701><U+272A> <U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+272A> <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2702><U+272A> <U+271A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2605><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F><U+272F><U+270C><U+2713><U+2719> <U+2730><U+2716><U+272E>
              <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A> <U+2706>
              <U+2726><U+2719><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721>   <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721>   <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721>   <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>
                      <U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717>   <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+270D><U+2713>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F>   <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>
                               <U+271F><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2701>                     <U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2721><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2717>   <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721>   <U+2718><U+2719><U+2721>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2712><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>
                   <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+2725><U+2719>
               <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2701><U+272A> <U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+272A> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2702><U+272A> <U+271A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2702> <U+2605><U+272A> <U+261E><U+271B><U+2721><U+2731><U+2719><U+271C><U+2730> <U+2732><U+271C><U+2712><U+261B><U+2716><U+2721><U+2719>
                                                     <U+271A><U+2716><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2702>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>    <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>    <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>    <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                      <U+2722><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>    <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>    <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+2729><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>                     <U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>    <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>    <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                         <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>    <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                   <U+2722><U+2701>                     <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>    <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F>    <U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2715><U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2722><U+271F> <U+2720><U+270F><U+2723><U+271C><U+270F><U+271A><U+2724><U+270C><U+261B><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2713><U+272C><U+270F><U+2721>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>    <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                                <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                     <U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>    <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>    <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                      <U+2722><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>    <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>    <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+2605><U+2701>                  <U+2605><U+260E>                      <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                               <U+2729><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>                      <U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>    <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                       <U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>    <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                         <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                      <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>    <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                   <U+2722><U+2701>                     <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>    <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>    <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                                <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>    <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                            <U+2729><U+2701>                    <U+2729><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>    <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                       <U+272A><U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>    <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>
                  <U+2702> <U+2701>                    <U+2702> <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>    <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>    <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>
                               <U+2702><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>    <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                           <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>    <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                      <U+2702><U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>    <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                                                      <U+2715><U+270F><U+2723><U+2721> <U+2722>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                  <U+2702><U+272A><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+272A><U+260E>                 <U+2722><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2722><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2722> <U+2701>                 <U+2722> <U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                              <U+2722><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                          <U+2722><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
                      <U+2722><U+260E><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
                  <U+2722><U+2605><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2605><U+260E>                 <U+2722><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
              <U+2722><U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+272A><U+2701>                 <U+2722><U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                              <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2706> <U+2701>                   <U+2706> <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                          <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                      <U+2706><U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
                  <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2706><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2605><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2605><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                              <U+2706><U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+272A><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+260E> <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>
                      <U+260E> <U+260E>                   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2722><U+260E>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+260E>                   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2605><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+260E><U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>
                      <U+260E><U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2704><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2704><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                  <U+2704> <U+2701>                   <U+2704> <U+260E>                 <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2704><U+2722><U+2701>                 <U+2704><U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2704><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                              <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                          <U+2704><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+2704><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                      <U+2704><U+2605><U+260E>                   <U+2704><U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2704><U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                  <U+2704><U+272A><U+2701>                   <U+2704><U+272A><U+260E>                 <U+2605><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
              <U+2605><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2605> <U+2701>                 <U+2605> <U+260E>                   <U+2605><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                              <U+2605><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2605><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+2605><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+2605><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2605><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2605><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                      <U+2605><U+260E><U+260E>                   <U+2605><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2605><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                  <U+2605><U+2605><U+2701>                   <U+2605><U+2605><U+260E>                 <U+2605><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2605><U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+2605><U+272A><U+2701>                 <U+2605><U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2729><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>
                              <U+2729><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2729> <U+2701>                   <U+2729> <U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                          <U+2729><U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2729><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2729><U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                      <U+2729><U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2729><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2729><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                     <U+2715><U+270F><U+2723><U+2721> <U+2706>

                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+2729><U+260E><U+260E>                       <U+2729><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+2729><U+2704><U+260E>                      <U+2729><U+2605><U+2701>                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+260E>                       <U+2729><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>
                                  <U+2729><U+2729><U+260E>                       <U+2729><U+272A><U+2701>                       <U+2729><U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>
                             <U+272A><U+2701><U+2701>                       <U+272A><U+2701><U+260E>                       <U+272A> <U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                        <U+272A> <U+260E>                       <U+272A><U+2702><U+2701>                       <U+272A><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                   <U+272A><U+2722><U+2701>                       <U+272A><U+2722><U+260E>                       <U+272A><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272A><U+2706><U+260E>                      <U+272A><U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+272A><U+260E><U+260E>                       <U+272A><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>
                                  <U+272A><U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+272A><U+2605><U+2701>                       <U+272A><U+2605><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                             <U+272A><U+2729><U+2701>                       <U+272A><U+2729><U+260E>                       <U+272A><U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>
                        <U+272A><U+272A><U+260E>                        <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                    <U+2701> <U+2701>                       <U+2701> <U+260E>                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+260E>                      <U+2701><U+2722><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+2722><U+260E>                      <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                                   <U+2701><U+2706><U+260E>                       <U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                              <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+2701><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                         <U+2701><U+2605><U+260E>                       <U+2701><U+2729><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>
                    <U+2701><U+272A><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+272A><U+260E>                        <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                <U+2701><U+260E>                         <U+2701>                         <U+260E>                      <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>
                                    <U+2702><U+260E>                        <U+2722><U+2701>                        <U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
                               <U+2706><U+2701>                        <U+2706><U+260E>                        <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2605>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+260E><U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2715><U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2722><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2718><U+270F><U+270C><U+2726><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2724><U+2702><U+2713><U+2718><U+271A><U+2724><U+270C><U+2712><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2605>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>       <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                <U+260E>                       <U+2701>                         <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>      <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>       <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>      <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                      <U+2702><U+260E>                        <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>      <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>       <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                      <U+2722><U+260E>                       <U+2706><U+2701>                        <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>      <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>       <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+260E>                        <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>       <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+2605><U+2701>                  <U+2605><U+260E>                          <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>      <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>       <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                               <U+2729><U+260E>                      <U+272A><U+2701>                          <U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>      <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>       <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                      <U+2701><U+260E>                           <U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>      <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>       <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                         <U+260E>                      <U+2702><U+2701>                          <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>      <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>       <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                   <U+2722><U+2701>                       <U+2722><U+260E>                        <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                       <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+260E>                        <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>      <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>       <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                                                        <U+2715><U+270F><U+2723><U+2721> <U+260E>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>
                             <U+2729><U+2701>                    <U+2729><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                         <U+272A><U+260E>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                    <U+2702> <U+2701>                 <U+2702> <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>
                                <U+2702><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                            <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2605><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                        <U+2702><U+2605><U+260E>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                    <U+2702><U+272A><U+2701>                 <U+2702><U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>
              <U+2722><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2722> <U+2701>                   <U+2722> <U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
                                <U+2722><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                            <U+2722><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                        <U+2722><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+2722><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                    <U+2722><U+2605><U+2701>                 <U+2722><U+2605><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
              <U+2722><U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+272A><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                                <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2706> <U+2701>                   <U+2706> <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                            <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                        <U+2706><U+2722><U+260E>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>
                    <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2706><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2605><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+2605><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                                <U+2706><U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+2706><U+272A><U+2701>                   <U+2706><U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                            <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+260E> <U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>
                        <U+260E> <U+260E>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
                    <U+260E><U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2729>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2722><U+260E><U+2729>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2715><U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2722><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2718><U+270F><U+270C><U+2726><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2723><U+270C><U+270F><U+2701><U+2726><U+271C><U+2721><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2729>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                               <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                     <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                          <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>
                      <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>                  <U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                              <U+2729><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>                    <U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                     <U+2701>
                                                     <U+2715><U+270F><U+2723><U+2721> <U+2704>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                        <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                   <U+2722><U+2701>                    <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>
                             <U+2729><U+2701>                    <U+2729><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>
                       <U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2702> <U+2701>                   <U+2702> <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2727><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                                <U+2702><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                            <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
                      <U+2702><U+2605><U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721>
                  <U+2702><U+272A><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+272A><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>   <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>
              <U+2722><U+2701><U+260E>                   <U+2722> <U+2701>                   <U+2722> <U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                                <U+2722><U+2702><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>
                            <U+2722><U+2706><U+2701>                   <U+2722><U+2706><U+260E>                   <U+2722><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                      <U+2722><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+272A>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2715><U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2722><U+271F> <U+2727><U+2716><U+270E><U+270F><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2724><U+2701><U+2724><U+271C><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2723><U+270F><U+2701><U+2721><U+261B><U+2724><U+2718>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+272A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                      <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718>   <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+260E>                    <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                               <U+2729><U+260E>                   <U+272A><U+2701>                     <U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>   <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2702>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2715><U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2722><U+271F> <U+2719><U+2721><U+261B><U+270C><U+270F><U+2716><U+2713><U+2701><U+2721><U+271C><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2713><U+270C><U+2726><U+2701><U+2724><U+270C><U+2701><U+2726><U+2718>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C>     <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                               <U+260E>                       <U+2701>                   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721>     <U+2719><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                          <U+2702><U+2701>                      <U+2702><U+260E>                  <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2723> <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271C>     <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
                                                       <U+2715><U+270F><U+2723><U+2721> <U+2605>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                  <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                              <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2724><U+2701>                    <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                     <U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605>    <U+271C>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+2711><U+271B><U+270C><U+271B><U+272A><U+2712><U+272B><U+271A><U+2714><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271B><U+2714><U+272C><U+271B><U+2716><U+2714><U+272A>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>
                         <U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+2706><U+271C>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2712><U+270C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2720><U+2720><U+2714><U+270E> <U+2721><U+271A><U+2726><U+2712><U+270C>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
               <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+271E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2712><U+271B> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2717><U+270E>
                                                     <U+2711><U+271B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2722>

                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+271E>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>    <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                                <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>    <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>    <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>    <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>    <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>    <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>    <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                         <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>    <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                     <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>    <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                                <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2706>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+270C><U+2717><U+2701><U+271B> <U+270E><U+271B><U+2716><U+271A><U+2702><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2714><U+2704><U+270E><U+270F><U+260E>      <U+2706><U+271B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2721><U+271A><U+272B><U+271B>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>
                                <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>    <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>    <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                         <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                     <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>    <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                                <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+270D><U+270C><U+271B><U+2704><U+271A><U+272C><U+2718><U+270F><U+270E><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+2720><U+271A><U+271B><U+2721><U+271B>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                               <U+260E>                      <U+2701>                     <U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>    <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                          <U+2702><U+2701>                     <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>    <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>
                                                      <U+2711><U+271B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2724>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                  <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                              <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2724><U+2701>                    <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                     <U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                        <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2704>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+2706><U+271C>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+2711><U+271A><U+270E><U+2714><U+272A> <U+270E><U+271B><U+2716><U+271A><U+2702><U+2714><U+272A>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
               <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+271C>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2726><U+2714><U+271A><U+272B><U+2714><U+2720><U+271B><U+2716><U+271B>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>
               <U+2706><U+260E>
                                                    <U+2711><U+271B><U+2726><U+2712>    <U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2722>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2714><U+270C><U+2714><U+270E>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2722>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                    <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2724>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2714><U+270E> <U+270E><U+272B><U+270C><U+2718><U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2724>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                                <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                    <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714><U+2714><U+270E> <U+272B><U+271B><U+2704><U+271B><U+2720><U+2720><U+2714><U+270E>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                               <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                   <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>
                          <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                                                     <U+2711><U+271B><U+2726><U+2712>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                  <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                              <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2724><U+2701>                    <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                     <U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                         <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                    <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                  <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+271A><U+272B><U+2718><U+2716><U+271A><U+271B><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2704><U+2712><U+2721><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+272A><U+271A><U+271B><U+2721><U+271B>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>
                                <U+260E>                     <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                           <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>    <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                      <U+271E><U+260E>                     <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>    <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                               <U+2722><U+260E>                    <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>    <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                            <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F>
                         <U+260E>                    <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>                     <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                     <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+272B><U+271A><U+2720><U+2720><U+2714><U+270E> <U+270E><U+2714><U+2704><U+2716><U+271A><U+2720><U+271A><U+270E>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                                 <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>
                            <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>    <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>   <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E>
                       <U+271E><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>    <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2717><U+270C>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E>    <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+2711><U+270C><U+2718>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+271C><U+2701>                    <U+271C><U+260E>                    <U+2722><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726>    <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>   <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+272E><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>
                                <U+2722><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>    <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2720><U+2712>   <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2717>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>    <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2720>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2720><U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2714>
                          <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C> <U+272D><U+2712><U+270C>
                   <U+271E><U+2701>
                                                     <U+2711><U+271B><U+2726><U+2712>    <U+2702>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2712><U+270E><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2718><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719><U+2717><U+2715><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2720>
              <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E>   <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E>
                                 <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>
                            <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716>    <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+2720><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>    <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>   <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+272C><U+2701>                    <U+272C><U+260E>                    <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>
                                <U+272D><U+260E>                   <U+272E><U+2701>                     <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>
                          <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>
                   <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2723><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2715><U+2722><U+270D><U+2715><U+270F><U+2726><U+2716><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2727><U+272F>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>    <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>
                                 <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>    <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>   <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>
                            <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>    <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>   <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>
                       <U+2720><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+272C><U+2701>                    <U+272C><U+260E>                    <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>
                                <U+272D><U+260E>                   <U+272E><U+2701>                     <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>    <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>
                          <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+272D><U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2723><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2715><U+2722><U+270D><U+2715><U+270D><U+2715><U+2715><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2727><U+272F>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>    <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>   <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>
                               <U+260E>                      <U+2701>                     <U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E>    <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>   <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>
                          <U+2702><U+2701>                     <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>
                       <U+2720><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>    <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>    <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+272C><U+2701>                  <U+272C><U+260E>                    <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>    <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>
                                                      <U+2721><U+2714><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2720>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                                <U+272D><U+260E>                    <U+272E><U+2701>                    <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2701><U+260E>                     <U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>
                          <U+260E>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>
                     <U+2720><U+2701>                  <U+2720><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>   <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>
               <U+2706><U+260E>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>   <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>   <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+272C><U+2701>                    <U+272C><U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>
                             <U+272D><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F>     <U+272D>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2716><U+270D><U+2715> <U+2715><U+270D><U+2719><U+2719><U+2718><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>
                                 <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>
                            <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>    <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>
                       <U+2720><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>    <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>   <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+272C><U+2701>                    <U+272C><U+260E>                    <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>   <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>   <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B>
                                <U+272D><U+260E>                   <U+272E><U+2701>                     <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E>    <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>   <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>    <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726>
                          <U+260E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+272C>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2714><U+2715><U+2717><U+271B><U+271B><U+2718><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A><U+2714><U+2716><U+2712><U+270E><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2702><U+272C>
              <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>
                                 <U+260E>                    <U+2701>                      <U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>    <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>   <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>
                            <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+260E>                    <U+2720><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714>   <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>
                       <U+2720><U+260E>                    <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>    <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>    <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A>   <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712>
              <U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+272C><U+2701>                    <U+272C><U+260E>                    <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E>    <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270E><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2726> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>
                                <U+272D><U+260E>                   <U+272E><U+2701>                     <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712>    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+2701><U+260E>                      <U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+2725><U+270E><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2718>    <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716>   <U+272A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2724><U+271B><U+2711>
                          <U+260E>                   <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+2722><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2724><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2724><U+271B><U+270F>    <U+2721><U+2722><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2712><U+270E> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2726>
                   <U+2720><U+2701>                     <U+2720><U+260E>
                                                      <U+2721><U+2714><U+271A><U+2712>   <U+2706>

