Abstract
This document presents an innovative process for design that aims at upcycling any type of
material within interior, architectural and landscape scenarios. It was developed to assist the
designer towards a more aware, effective and efficient activity, given the high rate of failure,
abandonment and poor outcomes related to this approach. Rematerial Information Modelling
(REMIM) is an information management process for rematerial-oriented design and is structured
to support architects and designers to collect, evaluate, consider and model crucial information of
wasted resources potentially suitable for design proposals. It enables informed decisions, lessens
redesign and streamlines the traditional process, increasing the chances for positive outcomes.

                                                         s Watd
                                                        'Resource
                                                            Discover
                                                                                           av or later   ,
                                Manstea
Larning&M oldng Moduleas        Proces                                                                  Upclycling
                                                       Research/I~deation
                                                                                                     potpneeno
                                                                                                       aandonen
                                                   ( Ideation Developmentomn
               Di  a ed
                reiew        orm/Connections
   E clniclearingDocumentaon
              SoDocumentation
      Deins Mden
                                                      Design Deployment
                             Building procesMnfstr                                       Redesign
        Directedinofo
       s afeguad and
    review preview info.
     Supports eventual
    redesign and future
      ROD. C reation of
        da tabeasefor                                      Upclycled
          refeene                                           Achieved
   Safeguard Moduleptm
                                                                                     A
                                                                           Precedens
                                                                        dateaa g ene rated

     Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There are six pages of description only

Description
The term rematerial was introduced by Baham6n and Sanjin6s (2010) in the book Rematerial:
From waste to Architecture. This word refers to material that has the potential to be reused in a
new and improved situation and is the generic term adopted in this patent to reference existing
materials, objects, elements and structures that may potentially be upcycled to new and
productive uses. Although the term includes, but it is not limited to, building materials resulting
from leftovers or demolitions, it more generally encompasses everything that is initially
considered waste, trash, found, forgotten or discarded material from some point of view, and are
found to have potential applications within a future or current design proposal.
Upcycling, in turn, is the practice of recycling, reusing or repurposing materials to a condition
with improved value. The words upcycle and upcycling are also new, and were only recently
added to dictionaries. Oxford Dictionaries (2016) describes "upcycle" as "reuse (of discarded
objects or material) in such a way as to create a product of higher quality or value than the
original", and Cambridge Dictionary (2016) defines the term as "to make new furniture, objects,
etc. out of old or used things or waste material". However, although upcycle is considered a new
term, its stands for a longstanding practice. It has been always performed, especially in times
when people could not afford to replace goods so casually (Strasser, 1999).
Within the recycling approach for this patent, it is also important to define and add the
distinction among rematerial-oriented design (ROD), upcycling and downcycling. The first
implies that the material will be reused, repurposed or upcycled in an architectural or interior
architectural setting. The resource will retain the same basic composition and may suffer
preparation and minor to no modification. New uses, connections and installation procedures
need to be implemented within this approach (Pereira, 2017). Conversely, downcycled material
results from items that have been processed and broken down to generate new ones. And, while
upcycling refers to the removal of wasted resources from their current situations to improved
situations, downcycling purposes to reduce an article or substance into its components with the
aim to reuse anything with potential utility, generating products of quality inferior to the original.
As reported by Strasser (1999), making and fixing things have become hobbies, but it is not as
typical as they used to be. Nevertheless, the Maker Movement, declared as the new industrial
revolution, has focused on rescuing this practice and enabling individuals' interactions with
objects that go beyond consumption (Dougherty, 2012; Morin, 2013; Swan, 2014). However, to
repair and find new applications for worn and broken items demands consciousness about
materials. Transformational ideas are more frequent among people who make things and are
handy at changing things, so there remains a need for a tactile material understanding. Upcycling
might be practiced not only by designers and architects, but also by craftsmen, bricoleurs and the
DIY practitioners.
Within the architectural scenario, practitioners would necessarily relate ROD with the traditional
design process and approach four main stages illustrated by the double diamond developed by
the Design Council (2007). The double diamond includes discovery, definition, development and
delivery as the main stages of design. Precisely in ROD, Discovery is the first stage of goal

establishment, and this phase is characterized by the moment when the potential application of
presented materials, elements or structures has been identified but not yet cleared. Definition
happens during or after discovery and delineates the use of the available resource within design
thinking. Development solidifies the goal and initiates idea materialization through design
documentation and further material learning. In delivery, a cluster of actions concludes the
materialization of the initially proposed goal or regress the task for additional development or
definition.
The theoretical framework that supports ROD was deeply discussed in a PhD developed by one
of the patent's author at Curtin University, Western Australia, under the supervision of Professor
Sambit Datta (Pereira, 2017). This research has shown that upcycling has been a common
practice for designers who look at materiality as an opportunity. However, even the most
experienced designers and those whose practices adopts ROD commonly, act randomly with no
structured approach to enhance the process and, consequently, the outcomes. This is shown in
drawing 1; traditional ROD process. Moreover, it was found that failure, abandonment and poor
outcomes happens frequently in proposals with this nature, and they are mainly associated with
the lack of a controlled approach for managing relevant ROD information (constants and
variables) to enable directed research and ideation, continuous updates of data, appropriate
communication, transfer, and storage with prompt accessibility for future design proposals.
In ROD, continuous consideration of data regarding crucial ROD aspects (variables, constants
and decisions) will enable informed decisions, lessen redesigns and streamline the process,
increasing the chances for positive outcomes even when the rematerial is being saved for later.
Based on the findings and definitions described above, the claimed instrument, named
Rematerial Information Modelling (REMIM), was developed to support architects and designers
when they need to collect information about, evaluate, consider and model several factors
relevant to the wasted resource intended to be used during ROD. REMIM is intended to direct
and foster tasks that architects and designers perform randomly, and will support the user in
adopting and documenting more conscious and productive choices, motivate creativity and
provide more efficiency in workflow. It works directing the designer towards the inputting of
appropriate information, while outputs requests for more detailed information, encourage
actions, warns the user on constraints and automates brain storming through the web for assisting
research and ideation (refer to drawing 2; REMIM modules)
REMIM is based on information modules wherein the user is required to input specific
information to reduce the initial options into more feasible selections. It also outputs warnings
about constraints and automates web search for design inspirations based on previews uses of
that material. In case the design is not completed and the material is saved for later, input data
will be ready for retrieval and applied in a new project. The modules relate to constants,
variables and decisions of the design process and are detailed in the next paragraphs (refer to
drawing 3; Improved ROD process with REMIM).
The first module directs the user to collect, save and reflect on rematerial information. These
configure the constants of ROD, since the material is the central propeller for ROD to happen.

The constants are relevant to any sort of material and will require to be detailed by the user, as
follows:
Profile - General description of the resource, including name and intangible values, impressions,
sensations and highlights. The user manipulates, absorbs and analyses the resource. Physical,
mental and digital manipulation are encouraged. Record of findings is requested.
Precedents - Research of previous design proposals that include the same or similar material.
Name(s) adopted previously to define profile will be accessed for automated precedents
webstorming and added to process words, such as reuse, recycle, upcycle and innovative.
Record of findings will be saved.
Quantity - Exact or very approximate number is required. User learns and documents the number
of pieces available and accesses the possibility to acquire more in case it is needed or alternatives
must be adopted.
Condition - Assessment of the need for treatment and search for unexpected material conditions.
The user is encouraged to manipulate the resource again when possible to investigate specifics,
such as material breaking under gentle pressure or hidden properties (one material covering
another). Record of findings is requested.
Properties - Assessment of general physical/chemical properties. The user is encouraged to
research essential material properties, such as weight, resistance to traction and compression,
flexibility, and behaviour under specific conditions (i.e. weather). Designer may be linked to
automated web storming (web search of properties + material). Record of findings will be saved.
Dimensions - Dimensional assessment of resource. The user is taken to learn and document exact
dimensions of the resource.
Geometry - Formal assessment of resource. The user is taken to manipulate the material and
research and document these formal characteristics. The designer is led to observe formal
potentials for connections and experiment with tridimensional composition and repetition.
Record of findings is requested.
Uniformity - Evaluation of uniformity or detachability. The user is led to investigate how
uniform the resource is, whether it has detachable parts and its compatibility with materials that
may be added to the proposal. Record of findings is requested.
The second module refers to variables involved in ROD, connecting materiality to the reality of
the designer and the environment in which the proposal will potentially be developed and
delivered. They are described, as follows:
Time - Estimate of time for materialising the proposal/availability of time. User is led to estimate
time to be spent on materialisation and must consider beforehand to allow that time.
Space - Availability of space for storage. A positive response will cause a request for more
details on space. A negative response will warn the user that immediate ROD is required.

Need - Existence of a current need or goal for re-contextualisation. A positive response will
cause a request for more details on the goal. A negative response will link the user to automated
webstorming (image web search using process words + material) and exploration of the potential
social profile of the material.
Cost - Indication of prospective savings or increase in costs. An indication of savings or cost
increases will require more details on reasons, such as other material additions or labour
consuming costs.
Labour - Information about who will be the maker and manufacturer or build the proposal. User
is led to estimate time to be spent on materialisation and consider beforehand to allow that time.
Transport - Need and feasibility of material transportation. A positive response will cause a
request for more details on transport.
Skill - Information about the skills needed for manufacturing the proposal and how the maker
dominates those skills. More details on skills and processes will be requested to lead the user's
process learning and, once the process is described, the designer will be linked to automated
webstorming (image web search using process adopted + material).
Tooling - Information about necessary tools and availability for manufacturing the proposal and
how the maker dominates those tools. More details on tools will be requested to lead the user's
process learning. Depending on tool availability, the user will require more research on
alternative procedures.
The third and last module guides the user towards essential design decisions but, rather than
compromising the creativeness and freedom of the designer, alerts about constraints and
highlight important definitions to be taken before delivery. This information consists of:
Concepts - Encouragement of the definition of a concept for the proposal, which may be based
on precedents. Initial ideation results, precedents and profile (from constants) are assessed, and
user is encouraged to record ideation towards the development of design concepts.
Scale - Encouragement of the definition of a scale for the proposal, which may be interior,
architectural or urban. Results from material dimensions and quantity (constants) are accessed,
and according to designers' definitions on the scale, the precedents webstorming is refined to
include the focused design scale. Records of findings will be saved.
Functions - Encouragement to explore and integrate functionality, structural and aesthetic
inquiries. The user is taken to manipulate, absorb and analyse the eminent proposal. Drawings,
sketches, physical, mental and digital manipulation are encouraged.           Record of ideas is
requested.
Formal composition - Encouragement of precise, detailed and smart formal decisions. The user is
taken to consider modulation, repetition of pieces, tri-dimensional thinking and composition to
take advantage of form features and details. Record of definitions is requested.

Connections - Encouragement of precise definition of connections. The user is taken to define
every detail of connections, slots and joints and record them. Automated image web storming of
possible connections solutions will direct research on the topic. Record of definitions is
requested.
Finishing - Encouragement of precise definition of finishes. The user is led to define design
finishing precisely. Research on the process to be adopted will be encouraged. Record of
definitions is requested.
Material Preparation - Encouragement of research and learning of processes necessary to prepare
the resource. The user is led to understand and define processes needed for material preparation,
including recovery, cutting, transforming and assembling. Research on methods to be adopted
will be encouraged. Record of definitions is requested.
Systems Integration - Assessment of how the proposal integrates surrounding systems. The user
is led to consider potential impacts of the proposal in the future containing space or system,
including physical, structural, aesthetic, functional and sensorial. Record of impressions and
findings is requested.
Redesign - Assessment of potential causes for redesign and encouragement for redesign
accomplishment. The user is directed to investigate causes for a redesign, including lack of
details definitions, unawareness of material condition and shortage of material, and ideation
towards the finding of solutions is encouraged. Record of findings is requested.
Documentation - Encouragement of detailed and reliable documentation of the proposal.
Designer skills are accessed for documentation, and documentation methods are suggested
according to those skills.
As an integrated system, additional digital features could be added to REMIM for the input and
output of material information to empower and automate tasks during ROD. These components
include but are not limited to the following: a visual database for rematerial location, tracking
and availability within local and regional contexts; rematerial scanning to facilitate digital
manipulation and formal exploration; Comparisons of object similarity based on Kernel machine
algorithm (Sch6lkopf, Burges, & Smola, 1999; Sch6lkopf & Smola, 2002) to explore formal
similarity of rematerial and enhance goal construction; import of material performance and
properties information through interface with software for material selection, such as Granta
CES Selector (Granta Design, 2017); Digital model deliverables in CAD (Computer Aided
Design) and BIM (Building information Modelling) formats and data reports accessible through
BIM platforms.
References
Baham6n, A., & Sanjin6s, M. C. (2010). Rematerial: from waste to architecture. New York:
W.W. Norton & Co.
Cambridge Dictionary. (2016). Retrieved from
http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/upcycle

Design Council. (2007). Eleven lessons: managing design in eleven global brands. Retrieved
from London:
http://www.designcouncil.org.uk/sites/default/files/asset/document/ElevenLessonsDesign Cou
ncil%20(2).pdf
Dougherty, D. (2012). The maker movement. Innovations, 7(3), 11-14.
Granta Design. (2017). CES 2017 Selector [software], Version 2017.
Morin, B. (2013). What Is the Maker Movement and Why Should You Care? Huffington Post, 7.
Pereira, N.d. C. (2017). Rematerial-Oriented Design: a framework for architectural upcycling.
(Doctoral thesis), Curtin University, Australia.
Sch6lkopf, B., & Smola, A. J. (2002). Learning with Kernels: Support Vector Machines,
Regularization, Optimization, and Beyond. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Sch6lkopf, B., Burges, C. J. C., & Smola, A. J. (1999). Advances in Kernel Methods: Support
Vector Learning. New York: Philomel Books.
Strasser, S. (1999). Waste and want: a social history of trash (1st ed. ed.). New York:
Metropolitan Books.
Swan, N. (2014). The "maker movement" creates DIY revolution. The Christian Science
Monitor.
The Oxford Dictionaries. (2016). Retrieved from
https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/upcycle

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
We claim:
   1. An interactive system of 'rematerial information modelling' for design aimed at
       upcycling wherein the improvement from traditional process consists of managing
       appropriate material information, comprising: a learning module wherein specific
       rematerial information, said constants, is requested and inserted before the design
       development; a molding module where variables in regard to designer and environment
       are considered and continuously adapted combined with constants; a decisions module
       for constraining decisions in consonance with constants and variables; a safeguard
       module wherein a database is created while design is being completed for assisting
       redesign and future developments.
   2. The process of claim 1 wherein the rematerial information consists of material profile,
       precedents applications, quantity, condition, properties, dimensions and geometry; and
       learning is accomplished by researching of precedents, text notes writing, modelling,
       drawing, web storming, manipulation and visualization and inputting the data generated
       by the designer.
   3.  The process of claim 1 wherein the information referred to the molding step consists of
       time, space, need, cost, labor, transport, skills and tooling, said variables, reassessment
       and updating data from learning module and is accomplished by inputting information
       related to requirements for developing the design and delivering the good.
   4. The process of claim 1 wherein design decisions abides to concepts, scale, functions,
       formal composition, connections, finishing, material preparation, systems integration,
       redesign and documentation and are informed and directed by data previously learned
       and molded.
   5. The process of claim 2, 3 and 4 further comprising directing the designer towards the
       inputting of required information; outputting requests for more detailed information;
       actions encouragement, warnings on constraints and automated brain storming for
       assisting research and ideation.

                   Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are three pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
