   ABSTRACT
   A vehicle detection unit (VDU) is embedded beneath each of a plurality of parking
   spaces. Each VDU has a sensor which detects magnetic field fluctuations caused by
   the arrival and departure of a vehicle in the parking space. The VDU runs a vehicle
   detection algorithm to distinguish magnetic fluctuations caused by vehicles from
 5 "exceptional"   magnetic fluctuations from other sources.      The VDU also stores
   parameters which define notifiable vehicle space occupancy events. A processor of the
   VDU processes the sensor signal to determine occupancy status of the vehicle space,
   and compare the occupancy status of the vehicle space with the parameters in order to
   determine whether a notifiable event has occurred, such as a vehicle going into
10 violation   of parking    restrictions.   As   necessary,  the  VDU    initiates radio
   communications with a supervisory device, either a transient portable device such as a
   Parking Officer' s PDA or a fixed radio node mountedwithin range.

                                       1/7
        130)
                -Parking Officer
             1)33
                                                        120
230
    230
                                    Figure 1
                  S260
                                                                   26
                              240
       234
                                             240
                                             220
                                                               200
                                                 . .. ..... ....
                                  210
                                    Figure

                                                   1
                                        Vehicle detection
   This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the
   entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 5
   Technical Field
   The present invention relates to vehicle parking compliance and in particular to
   automated determination of notifiable parking events.
10 Background
   Vehicular parking is usually subjected to rules and regulations such as absolute
   prohibitions in areas in which no parking is permitted, and conditional prohibitions
   such as permit-only parking.         Time-limited parking regulations, whether free or
   metered/ticketed, are also common on public roadways.
15
   Enforcement of vehicular parking regulations can be the responsibility of either private
   or public agencies.       Such enforcement is costly and time consuming.             Typical
   enforcement involves a parking inspector manually inspecting all of the restricted
   spaces periodically, regardless of whether vehicles are actually present.         Further, to
20 identify a violation in a free time-limited zone requires that the parking inspector
   inspect the violating car at least twice, once to establish a time of arrival of the car (for
   example by chalking the tire of the car), and a second time once the permitted time
   period for parking has elapsed. Even in paid metered zones, such manual enforcement
   is inefficient as the parking inspector may fail to note an expired meter or ticket before
25 the violating car departs, reducing the deterrent to infringers and denying fines revenue
   to the relevant body. It has been estimated that only 1 in 25 parking violations are
   identified by manual enforcement. Enforcement is made even more difficult when the
   spaces are distributed over a large area, such as a city block or a large, multi-level
   parking garage.      Manual enforcement is also unable to provide historical data of
30 parking usage, and such data           is becoming      of increasing    importance   to the
   implementation of parking supply and regulation.
   It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or limitations
   associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
35

                                                 2
   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
   been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
   context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
   these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
 5 field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
   of this application.
   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or
10 step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
   integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
   Summary
   According to a first aspect the present invention provides a vehicle detection unit
15 comprising:
           a magnetic sensor able to sense variations in magnetic field and for outputting a
   sensor signal caused by occupancy of a vehicle space by a vehicle;
           a storage device carrying parameters which define notifiable vehicle space
   occupancy events;
20         a processor operable to process the sensor signal to determine occupancy status
   of the vehicle space, and operable to compare the occupancy status of the vehicle space
   with the parameters in order to determine whether a notifiable event has occurred, and
   operable to effect a communication from the vehicle detection unit to a supervisory
   device upon occurrence of a notifiable event, wherein the communication includes data
25 items pertaining to the notifiable event and communicated in a format suitable for pre
   population into infringement issuing software, and wherein the communication is at
   least partially wireless.
   According to a second aspect the present invention provides a method for vehicle
30 detection by a vehicle detection unit, the method comprising:
           sensing variations in magnetic field caused by occupancy of a vehicle space by a
   vehicle, and outputting a sensor signal;
           retrieving from a storage device parameters which define notifiable vehicle
   space occupancy events;
35         processing the sensor signal to determine occupancy status of the vehicle space,
   comparing the occupancy status of the vehicle space with the parameters in order to

                                                3
   determine whether a notifiable event has occurred, and effecting a communication from
   the vehicle detection unit to a supervisory device upon occurrence of a notifiable event,
   wherein the communication includes data items pertaining to the notifiable event and
   communicated in a format suitable for pre-population into an infringement issuing
 5 device, and wherein the communication is at least partially wireless.
   The present invention thus provides for the vehicle detection unit itself to determine
   whether a notifiable event has occurred.
10 Preferably, the vehicle detection unit communicates wirelessly directly with a portable
   supervisory device, for example a personal digital assistant carried by an inspector, in
   an ad-hoc manner at times when a notifiable event has occurred and when the portable
   supervisory device is in range. Such a network topology is referred to herein as a
   transient middle tier. Such embodiments may thus obviate the need for fixed
15 communications infrastructure to connect the or each vehicle detection unit with a head
   office server, and to connect the head office server with the supervisory device, with
   such fixed infrastructure being referred to herein as a fixed middle tier. However, it is
   to be appreciated that the scope of the present invention includes embodiments in
   which a fixed middle tier is employed.
20
   In further preferred embodiments of the invention, the vehicle detection unit is operable
   to provide information associated with the notifiable event to the supervisory device so
   that such information may be pre-populated into the supervisory device without
   requiring manual entry of such information by a parking inspector. Depending on the
25 nature of the notifiable event such pre-population of associated information may save
   the inspector from manually entering up to 20 or more fields of data. Such data may
   for example include location information such as street name and parking bay number,
   vehicle occupancy duration, offence details, applicable regulations or "signage", an
   applicable monetary fine, historical usage data, and the like.
30
   The notifiable event may comprise occurrence of a parking violation, an imminent
   parking violation, or any non-violating parking event of interest such as a change in
   occupancy status.
35 Preferably, a plurality of vehicle detection units in accordance with the first aspect of
   the present invention communicate with a single supervisory device such as a PDA

                                               4
   carried by a parking inspector. The single supervisory device may thus be provided
   with real time reporting of the occupancy status of each of a plurality of parking spaces,
   including information such as the presence or absence of a vehicle in each location, a
   duration of occupancy of each vehicle present, a violation status of each vehicle present
 5 such as no violation, violation imminent, and in violation. Notably, due to the ability of
   each vehicle detection unit to determine whether notifiable events are occurring, the
   supervisory device is not required to possess the substantial processing power needed
   to make such determinations for every such vehicle detection unit.
10 In preferred embodiments of the present invention, the vehicle detection unit is
   embedded in the roadway beneath the associated parking space.
   The sensor of the vehicle detection unit is preferably a magnetometer able to sense
   variations in magnetic field caused by the arrival, presence, departure or absence of a
15 vehicle. In particularly preferred embodiments of the invention the magnetometer is a
   3-axis magnetometer able to sense components of the magnetic field in x, y and z
   directions. Preferably, emphasis is placed on variations in the z-axis (vertical axis) of
   the magnetic field, as such variations are most likely caused by a vehicle directly above
   the sensor.   In such embodiments the vehicle detection unit preferably comprises a
20 vehicle detection algorithm adapted to determine whether detected variations in the
   sensor signal are caused by a vehicle or by some other event such as the presence of
   magnetic objects, in order to avoid false positives.
   In preferred embodiments of the invention the vehicle detection unit is operable to
25 receive updates to the parameters defining notifiable vehicle space occupancy events,
   for example when the signage associated with the parking space is altered. Such
   updates are preferably transmitted to the vehicle detection unit wirelessly via the same
   wireless communications link used by the vehicle detection unit to communicate with
   the supervisory device.
30
   According to a third aspect the present invention provides a method for issuing a
   parking infringement notice, the method comprising:
           a portable device establishing a transient wireless connection with at least one
   fixed vehicle detection unit (VDU);
35         the portable device obtaining from the VDU via the wireless connection data
   arising from a notifiable parking event magnetically detected by the VDU by using at

                                                5
   least a sensor of the VDU, the data communicated from the VDU being in a format
   suitable for pre-population into infringement issuing software; and
           the portable device pre-populating the data into infringement issuing software
   and generating a parking infringement notice using the pre-populated data obtained
 5 from the VDU.
   According to a fourth aspect the present invention provides a system for detecting
   vehicle parking infringements, the system comprising:
           a plurality of vehicle detection units (VDUs) each associated with a respective
10 vehicle parking space and storing parameters         defining notifiable vehicle space
   occupancy events, each VDU configured to magnetically sense occupancy of the
   associated vehicle space by using at least a sensor of the VDU and determine by
   reference to the parameters whether a notifiable event has occurred, and operable to
   communicate wirelessly including wirelessly transmitting data items pertaining to the
15 notifiable event and communicated in a format suitable for pre-population into
   infringement issuing software;
           a mobile supervisory device configured to wirelessly communicate with each
   respective VDU when brought within range, to receive information from the VDU
   arising from a notifiable parking event detected by the VDU, to pre-populate received
20 data items into infringement issuing software and to generate a parking infringement
   notice using the pre-populated data items obtained from the VDU.
   In the fourth aspect of the invention the mobile supervisory device may be a portable
   digital device carried by a parking inspector or may be vehicle mounted.           The
25 supervisory device preferably collates data from a plurality of VDUs for simultaneous
   display to a parking officer.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereinafter described, by way of
30 example only, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
           Figure 1 illustrates a network topology comprising a transient middle tier in
   accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 2 illustrates a network topology comprising a fixed middle tier in
   accordance with an alternative embodiment of the invention;
35         Figures 3a to 3i illustrate cases which influence operation of the vehicle
   detection algorithm in distinguishing parking events from exceptions;

                                                 6
           Figure 4 is a flowchart illustrating operation of the vehicle detection algorithm;
           Figure 5 illustrates the generalised network topology of a further embodiment of
   the present invention;
           Figure 6 illustrates operation of a "smart" VDU in accordance with another
 5 embodiment of the present invention;
           Figure 7 illustrates operation of an "intelligent" VDU in accordance with yet
   another embodiment of the present invention; and
           Figure 8 illustrates operation of a "smart" middle tier together with "smart"
   VDUs, in accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention.
10
   Detailed Description
   Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of
   algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer
   memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by
15 those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of
   their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to
   be a self-consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those
   requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.              Usually, though not
   necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of
20 being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has
   proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these
   signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
   It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be
25 associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels
   applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the
   following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions
   utilizing terms such as "processing" or "computing" or "calculating" or "determining"
   or "displaying" or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or
30 similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented
   as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories
   into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system
   memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or display
   devices.
35

                                                  7
   The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein.
   This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may
   comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a
   computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in
 5 a computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk
   including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only
   memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic
   or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and
   each coupled to a computer system bus.
10
   The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any
   particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used
   with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to
   construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps.             The
15 required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below.
   In addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular
   programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages
   may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.
20 A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting
   information in a form readable by a machine (e.g., a computer).          For example, a
   machine-readable medium includes read only memory ("ROM"); random access
   memory ("RAM"); magnetic disk storage media; optical storage media; flash memory
   devices; electrical, optical, acoustical or other form of propagated signals (e.g., carrier
25 waves, infrared signals, digital signals, etc.); etc.
   The following acronyms and terms are used throughout the following detailed
   description:
   Exception        An exception is a case where an object other than a vehicle (such as a
30           magnet) is placed within the vicinity of the Sensor. The VDA should detect
             this event and determine it to be an Exception.
   False Negative:      The VDU incorrectly determines the space is empty when the space
             is occupied.
   False Positive:   The VDU incorrectly determines the space is occupied when the space
35           is empty.

                                                 8
   FMT       Fixed Middle Tier. An alternative topology to TMT. The FMT is the conduit
             between the VDU and the VDS IG. The FMT is "fixed" as it is permanently
             in place in the field. The FMT may comprise wireless network nodes attached
             to parking meter or light poles or the like.
 5 HHD       Hand Held Device, for example running Windows CE, such as an 02 Atom
   ItS       Infringement Issuing Software
   Parking Event: A parking event is the record of a vehicle arriving and departing a bay.
             The event is recorded as the arrival and the departure time of a vehicle.
   PIN       Parking infringement notice
10 PINS      Parking infringement notice software
   TMT       Transient Middle Tier. The TMT is the conduit between the HHD and the
             VDU(s). The TMT is "transient" as it travels in the field with the Parking
             Officer and the HHD.
   VDA Vehicle Detection Algorithm. A VDU firmware function that detects the
15           presence of a vehicle over the unit.
   VDS       Vehicle Detection System
   VDS IG Vehicle Detection System Internet Gateway.
   VDU Vehicle Detection Unit. The unit which will be embedded into the ground.
             Contains a processor, a magnetic sensor and a communications module.
20 VIVA Vehicle In Violation Algorithm. This is a VDU firmware function that
             determines whether a given vehicle has lapsed into violation based on the
             presence of a vehicle as reported by the VDA.
   The transient topology utilising a TMT is outlined in Figure 1. Each VDU 110 is
25 battery powered and embedded in the ground. To effect the transient topology shown
   in Figure 1, each VDU 110 has the ability to detect the arrival and departure of a
   vehicle 120, by way of a three-axis magnetic sensor. The magnetic sensor reads the
   magnetic field at sufficiently regular intervals to detect a magnetic field disturbance
   created by a vehicle travelling at 20 kph or less. Each reading taken outside thresholds
30 is passed to the VDA for determination of the presence of a vehicle, as discussed
   further in the following. The sensor utilises a 3-axis sensor, which takes readings in the
   X, Y, and Z axis of the sensor, and the sensor can be placed into a power saving mode.
   The VDU 110 runs a vehicle detection algorithm (VDA). The VDA takes readings
   from the sensor and determines the arrival and departure of the vehicle 120 as
35 discussed further with reference to Figures 3a to 3i. The VDA is run in the firmware of
   VDU 110. Upon determination of the arrival of a vehicle 120 by the VDA, the VDU

                                                9
   110 also determines when the vehicle 120 moves into violation of parking restrictions.
   This is done by a VIVA (Vehicle In Violation Algorithm), which is run in the firmware
   of the VDU 110.
 5 Upon determination of an actual or impending infringement, the VIVA initiates
   communications from the VDU 110 to the TMT 132, to alert the parking officer 130 of
   the infringement. This is effected by an RF communications component of the VDU
   110. The RF communications component of the VDU 110 "listens when required" for
   the broadcast beacon from the TMT 132, and organises communications.
10
   Each VDU 110 has onboard memory storage to store Parking Events, enabling the
   VDU 110 to upload data for pre-population into the HHD 134 as required. Such data
   includes infringement data, parking event data, system health status, offence type (eg
   no standing), location details (physical), parking restrictions (eg signage), offence
15 details such as arrival time and departure time, offence notes such as arrival time and
   time overstayed, and firmware details. Once the Parking Event data has been
   transferred, it is removed from the VDU 110. Further, the HHD 134 issues a
   confirmation message indicating that an infringement has been issued, which is
   received by the VDU 110 and causes the VDA to be reset.
20
   As it is unlikely to be economic to replace the battery and/or VDU 110, each VDU 110
   is configured to be highly power efficient on the basis that once the battery has been
   exhausted the life of the VDU will be over. One measure to provide for longevity is
   that each VDU 110 is operable to download updated firmware and firmware parameters
25 (such as changed parking restrictions), as required.
   The TMT 132 is the component associated with the HHD 134 and the Parking Officer
   130. The TMT 132 communicates to the VDUs 110 and interfaces to the HHD 134. In
   this embodiment the TMT 132 is provided by wireless networking hardware positioned
30 in the holster of the HHD 134. The communications between the TMT 132 and the
   HHD 134 occur via mini USB port. The HHD 134 and the TMT 132 thus have a
   permanent connection in place whereby communication can occur at any time. The
   TMT 132 is a "transient" middle tier as it travels in the field with the parking officer
   130, and thus is not always available for communications with any given VDU 110.
35

                                                 10
   The TMT 132 acts as a conduit, whereby it passes data between the HHD 134 and each
   VDU 110. No data is stored on the TMT 132. Data to be transferred to a VDU 110
   from the HHD 134 is downloaded into the TMT 132 for transmission as required. Data
   to be transferred to the HHD 134 from the VDU 110 will be transmitted to the TMT
 5 132 for upload to the HHD 134. The communication between the TMT 132 and each
   VDU 110 is by way of an RF link. Due to the transient nature of the TMT 132 and the
   need to establish a new wireless connection each time it comes into range of a VDU in
   violation, the TMT 132 issues a broadcast beacon which can be picked up by any VDU
   110 within range. If a given VDU 110 responds, the TMT 132 will then schedule
10 communications with the VDU 110 so as to establish the new connection.
   The HHD 134 executes VDS portable system management console software and/or IIS
   software. When running the VDS portable system management console software, the
   HHD 134 has responsibility for management of all of the VDUs 110 in the field. This
15 includes management of the installation of each VDU 110, including recording of the
   location details. It also includes routine maintenance of VDU firmware. The HHD 134
   is pre-populated with the required database of details of VDU installation location and
   details.  In this embodiment having a transient middle tier, at least at times when
   firmware updates are required, the HHD 134 is pre-populated with the required
20 firmware and firmware parameters for download to each VDU 110.
   When the IIS is being run on the HHD 134, the HHD 134 is responsible for receiving
   and processing of data from the TMT 132, including the storage of Parking Event data
   and System Health data for each VDU 110. When infringement details are acquired,
25 the location of the associated VDU 110 and any other details required for the IIS to
   produce the infringement notice will be retrieved from an internal memory of the HHD
   134 based on the details provided by the VDU 110. For example, the details of the
   internal memory may include a street-to-suburb mapping to enable the HHD 134 to
   include the suburb in the infringement notice. When an infringement has been issued
30 the HHD 134 passes a message via the TMT 132 to the VDU 110 to reset the VDA so
   that a new monitoring period can commence.
   While the TMT 132 described above and shown in Figure 1 is a preferable solution due
   to the need for little or no fixed middle tier hardware, it is to be understood that
35 embodiments of the present invention includes within its scope fixed middle tier
   topologies    communicating      with   vehicle  detection units  in accordance    with

                                               11
   embodiments of the present invention. Figure 2 illustrates a system 200 in accordance
   with one such fixed middle tier (FMT) topology.
   The VDUs 210 in the system 200 provide most of the functions described above for the
 5 VDUs 110 of Figure 1, which are not described again. In addition, each VDU 210 is
   operable to listen for the beacon signal of the FMT 240, when required.          Upon
   detecting the beacon signal, the VDU 210 will perform the actions as outlined above as
   for the TMT 132. However, as infringement will only be issued by the HHD 234, the
   VDU 210 will continue to listen for the beacon signal of the TMT 232 when a vehicle
10 220 is in violation.
   A transient middle tier 232 is provided in the embodiment of Figure 2, however only
   infringement information would be transferred by TMT 232 as the other data would be
   sent via the FMT 240.       The 234 HHD functions largely as defined above for the
15 transient topology of Figure 1. The fixed middle tier 240 of Figure 2 is similar to the
   TMT 132 in that it communicates to each VDU 210, however the FMT 240 provides
   further capability beyond that of the TMT 132, namely to mesh network the data
   received from the VDUs 210 back to the VDS IG 250. The FMT 240 could be battery
   or mains powered and attached above            ground to    appropriate existing  fixed
20 infrastructure for example. When battery powered, the FMT 240 should be efficient in
   use of power, however unlike the VDUs 210 the battery of the FMT 240 can be
   replaced when exhausted.
   The FMT 240 thus acts as a conduit, whereby it passes data from the VDUs 210 to
25 other FMTs 240 or VDS IGs 250. No data is stored on the FMT 240. The FMT 240 is
   installed such that its broadcast receive range covers a wide range of VDUs 210 such
   that no single VDU 210 is within range of only one FMT 240, thus providing
   connection redundancy. The communication between the FMT 240 and the VDU 210
   is effected by an RF wireless link.     The FMT 240 issues a broadcast beacon signal
30 which can be picked up by any VDU 210 within range. If a given VDU 210 responds,
   the FMT 240 schedules communications with that VDU 210. Once communications
   have been scheduled the data exchange between the VDU 210 and the FMT 240
   includes Parking Infringement details, Parking Event data, Health Status information
   and Firmware details.      The FMT 240 then passes this information over the Mesh
35 network to the VDS IG 250.        Again, the VDUs 210 erase any data that has been

                                               12
   successfully transmitted to the TMT 232 and/or FMT 240, to minimise VDU memory
   requirements.
   The VDS IG 250 is an internet gateway that has a connection to the internet 260. VDU
 5 information transferred to the VDS IG 250 via the FMT 240 is sent on to the parking
   inspector' s dashboard monitor236 or HHD 234. The VDS IG 250 is mains powered
   and communicates with many FMTs 240 at once.           The backend 236 is a computer
   which receives data from the VDS IG 250 in real time. The backend 236 could be the
   dashboard monitor or other car-based computing device of a parking inspector 230, and
10 is capable of displaying this information in a graphical nature for visual interpretation
   and analysis of the data being received.
   Operation of VDUs 110, 210 thus includes communicability with either or both of a
   TMT     232 or FMT 240, depending on topology implemented.                  In preferred
15 embodiments, each deployed VDU 110, 210 is capable of operating under either a fixed
   topology or a transient topology to allow topology changes without requiring physical
   replacement of the VDUs, such replacement being laborious and involving excavation
   of the roadway. Further, each VDU 110, 210 supports firmware updates and is able to
   reboot itself when instructed by the TMT or FMT, and can receive and install firmware
20 updates. For example firmware configuration could include updated firmware version
   and components, configurable transmit intensity to provide compensation for changing
   wireless channel conditions, and configurable poll time. Each VDU 110, 210 further
   communicates a "known state" on request, and is able to be awoken for routine
   maintenance by a beacon signal from the TMT 132 and/or FMT 240.
25
   Each VDU 110, 210 supports pre-programmed daylight savings time zones and
   exception days such as public holidays, and is able to communicate as required that it is
   in a "fault" state, allowing scheduling of maintenance.        Each VDU 110, 210 is
   embedded about 2 centimetres below the surface of the parking space, and in this
30 configuration can typically communicate with a TMT 132 and/or FMT node 240 that is
   20 metres away.      To conserve battery power, each VDU 110, 210 only attempts to
   detect the presence of the beacon signal of the TMT 132 and/or FMT 240 at times
   when communication is required. Such occasions include when the VIVA indicates a
   vehicle is in violation, when the predefined Parking Event storage limits have been met,
35 when the system is in a "maintenance required" state, and when listening for a routine
   maintenance request.

                                               13
   A preferred feature enabling use of a transient middle tier in particular is that each
   VDU 110, 210 also transmits data required by the HHD 134 for the infringement in
   question, such as parking event data. As the VDU 110, 210 stores data representing
 5 both the parking space restrictions and the nature of the violation detected, this enables
   the HHD 134 to be provided with all necessary data to issue an infringement notice
   without requiring communications with a central server at the back end of the system.
   Each VDU 110, 210 is further configured to establish communications with only one
10 TMT 132 or FMT 240 at any given time, even when more than one TMT or FMT is in
   range.
   Each VDU 110, 210 runs a vehicle detection algorithm (VDA) which is illustrated in
   Figure 4. The VDA is remotely updateable as part of a general firmware update. Any
15 object that creates a disturbance to the magnetic field far greater than that created by a
   vehicle (such as a very strong magnet within the vicinity of the sensor) is to be treated
   as an exception, as discussed with reference to Figures 3a to 3i. Other situations which
   may trip the VDA into a false positive are also recorded as exceptions. Exceptions are
   reported as "space unoccupied" by default. The VDA enables the VDU to determine
20 the arrival of a vehicle over the sensor, and determine the departure of a vehicle from
   over the sensor. The process of Figure 4 is biased towards avoiding false positives, so
   as to minimise the chance of wrongly reporting a vehicle as being in violation when no
   violation actually occurred.
25 The VIVA algorithm operates on multiple time based triggers, supporting a minimum
   of 10 time changes in any operational period. The VIVA algorithm is updateable over
   the RF link, and being a firmware algorithm can be updated with a full firmware
   update. The VIVA configuration will be configurable via parameters over the RF link.
   Updating these parameters will not require a full firmware update, so that the VIVA
30 configuration may for example implement a parameter driven daylight savings time
   period allowing simple parameter updates to effect changed daylight savings
   conditions. Similarly the VIVA configuration may implement parameter driven
   exception days, for example for parking limitations which apply except on certain days,
   thus providing for simple parameter updates to effect any changes in exception days.
35

                                                14
   The VIVA works in conjunction with the VDA to determine whether a vehicle is in
   violation. When required the VIVA initiates communication with the TMT 132 and/or
   FMT 240. Determinations made by the VIVA constitute parking event data, which is
   written to the memory of the VDU.         The VIVA is further able to support pending
 5 violations, for example to indicate that a violation is imminent.       The VIVA and/or
   system further provides for a configurable grace period, which may be afforded to a
   vehicle operator before issuance of an infringement notice is initiated.
   In the embodiments described the parking officer is not able to print an infringement
10 notice until the infringement signature information has been transmitted from the
   relevant VDU 110 to the HHD 134.             However, in alternative embodiments this
   requirement may be omitted.
   The systems of Figures 1 and 2 enable generation of data such as estimated average bay
15 movements, including the number of expected infringements in a given day, how long
   until the car leaves (at which time the VDU can stop "listening"), how long until the
   infringement notice is issued (after which the VDU can stop listening), and how often
   the enforcement officer comes past any given VDU.
20 Each state outlined in the following falls into different sections of the state machine
   defined for the VDU by Figure 4. Each case has a description and an indication of
   where it fits into the state machine flow chart.
   Case 1
25 This case is illustrated in Figure 3a and occurs when a steady state has previously been
   reached, the VDA run and a car has been identified as occupying the bay.
   Pre conditions                              Post conditions           Effect on VDA
   Previous State         Steady               Value    recorded    for  VDA is not run
   Car Present            TRUE                  adaptive steady state
   Current State          Steady
   Case 2
30 This case is illustrated in figure 3b and occurs when a car first arrives, the steady state
   is realised after a transient phase, once the VDA identifies a car is present the arrival
   time and arrival signal are stored.

                                                15
   Pre conditions                              Post conditions             Effect on VDA
   Previous State        Transient             Arrival     Buffer     is   VDA     is run and
   Car Present           FALSE                  stored                     returns TRUE
                                               Arrival      Time      is
   Current State         Steady                recorded
   Case 2 - Alternative
   This case is illustrated in figure 3c and has the same preconditions as case 2 but when
 5 the VDA is run a result of no car present is returned. This means the steady state
   reached, or the arrival signal cannot possibly be a car. In this case the system transitions
   to an exception state.
   Pre conditions                              Post conditions             Effect on VDA
   Previous State        Transient             EXCEPTION state is          VDA     is run and
                         False                 realised                    returns FALSE
   Car Present
   Current State         Steady
   NOTE: The VDA returns false for the
   steady state reached
10 Case 3
   This case is illustrated in figure 3d and occurs when a car has previously been
   identified by the VDA and an external factor interrupts the field, when a steady state is
   again realised the VDA is run and determines the same car is present. In debug mode
   this intermediate signal can be stored.
15
   Pre conditions                              Post conditions             Effect on VDA
   Previous State        Transient             Intermediate buffer is      VDA     is run and
                         TRUE                   stored                     returns TRUE
   Car Present
   Current State         Steady

                                                 16
   Case 3 - Alternative
   This case is illustrated in figure 3e and is similar to case 3 but when the VDA is run
   after reaching steady state from a transient state a result of no car present is returned. In
   this case the VDA has determined that the steady state reached cannot be either the
 5 same car or a different car. In this case the system switches to exception state.
   Pre conditions                                  Post conditions          Effect on VDA
   Previous State          Transient               EXCEPTION state is VDA is run and
                           TRUE                    realised                 returns FALSE
   Car Present
   Current State           Steady
   NOTE: New Steady State is outside
   recorded steady state value when VDA
   returned TRUE
   Case 3 - Alternative #2 (VDA returns true due to different car being present)
   This case is illustrated in figure 3f and is similar to case 3 but when the VDA is run
10 after reaching steady state from a transient state the result denotes that a different car is
   present. In this case the VDA has determined that the previous car has left and a new
   car has arrived. Therefore the departure time must be noted, the arrival signal of the
   new car stored and the arrival time noted.
   Pre conditions                           Post conditions          Effect on VDA
   Previous State       Transient           Previous            car VDA is run and returns
   Car Present          TRUE                departure         time DIFFERENTCAR
                                            stored
   Current State        Steady              transientBuffer
   NOTE: New Steady State is outside stored as arrival
   recorded steady state value when buffer
   VDA returned TRUE                        Arrival time stored.
15
   Case 4
   This case is illustrated in figure 3g and is the case where the car has departed and the
   steady state reached is the baseline state. The departure time is stored and the departure
   signal may be stored if in debug mode.

                                                17
   Pre conditions                               Post conditions         Effect on VDA
   Previous State        Transient              Departure   buffer  is  VDA is not run
                         TRUE                   stored
   Car Present
                                                Departure   Time    is
   Current State         Baseline               stored
   Case 5
   This case is illustrated in figure 3h and is the case when the transient timeout expires,
 5 which means that a steady or baseline state has not been reached fast enough. In this
   case the system switches to exception state.
   Pre conditions                               Post conditions         Effect on VDA
   Previous State        Transient              EXCEPTION state is      VDA is not run
                         TRUE/FALSE             realised
   Car Present
   Current State         Transient
   NOTE: Max Transient Duration expired
   Case 5 - Alternative
10 This case is illustrated in figure 3i and is the case when the transient timeout expires,
   which means that a steady or baseline state has not been reached fast enough. In this
   case the system switches to exception state.
   Pre conditions                               Post conditions         Effect on VDA
   Previous State        Transient              EXCEPTION state is      VDA is not run
                         TRUE/FALSE             realised
   Car Present
   Current State         Transient
   NOTE:     Reading     does   not  stabilise
   within timeout
15 Each VDU 110, 210 has several registers, which allow the run time state of the VDU to
   be maintained. A Car Present Flag denotes whether the VDA has determined if a car is

                                                18
   present or not, and is used when determining which transition case has occurred. A
   Network Status Register allows the VDU to keep a record of its connectivity to the
   network when coming out of a sleep cycle. The flags can be checked to determine
   what network state the VDU was in before sleeping. A NETWORKASSOCIATED
 5 bit represents whether the VDU has successfully joined a network.                    A
   NETWORKJOINREQUEST bit is used to signify whether the VDU wishes to
   establish a wireless connection, and when set, the VDU will try and join a network.
   A network message request register of the VDU is used to store the type of message the
10 VDU wishes to exchange with a TMT. Multiple bits can be set indicating more than
   one type of data exchange is desired. Upon being asked by a TMT the type of
   exchange required this register is used as a return data.
   An ADMIN bit indicates whether the VDU wishes to exchange Admin based
15 commands, and a VIOLATION bit indicates the VDU wishes to inform a TMT a
   violation has occurred. A PENDINGVIOLATION indicates the VDU wishes to
   inform the TMT of a pending violation, and a SYSTEM-HEALTH bit indicates the
   VDU wishes to inform the TMT of its system health status, such as battery level. A
   PARKINGEVENTS bit indicates whether the VDU wishes to transfer its parking
20 event data to a TMT, while an EXCEPTION bit indicates whether the VDU is in
   exception state and needs to inform a TMT of this.
   A sensor state register of the VDU is used to store the current state of the VDU. The
   enabled bit will always be set when sensor readings are required, and this state can be
25 used in conjunction with any other state. Any other combinations of state are
   prohibited.
   An ENABLED bit indicates whether the VDU should read the sensor in its main loop.
   A BASELINE bit indicates whether the VDU is in a baseline state, while a
30 TRANSIENT bit indicates whether the VDU is in a transient state. A STEADY bit
   indicates whether the VDU is in a steady state, and an EXCEPTION bit indicates
   whether the VDU is in an exception state. A SUSPENDEDSLEEP bit indicates
   whether the VDU is in a suspended sleep state, used to make the VDU sleep for long
   periods such as overnight or on weekends.
35

                                                19
   A previous state runtime variable of the VDU is used to store the last state the VDU
   was in. The previous state may only ever be a single state, multiple previous states are
   prohibited. The previous state is used when determining the type of transition that has
   occurred and any subsequent action that should follow.
 5
   A BASELINE bit indicates whether the VDU was previously in baseline, while a
   TRANSIENT bit indicates whether the VDU was previously in transient state. A
   STEADY bit indicates whether the VDU was previously in steady state, and an
   EXCEPTION bit indicates the VDU was previously in exception state.                     A
10 SUSPENDEDSLEEP bit indicates whether the VDU was previously in suspended
   sleep state.
   Figure 5 illustrates the generalised network topology of a further embodiment of the
   present invention, and outlines the various components required for the system of this
15 embodiment to operate. These components and options for structure and intelligence of
   each are first outlined, and then subsequently examined in greater detail. The backend
   system 1 provides for configuration, processing and storing of data. In particular, the
   backend system 1 provides a conduit for the entry of street names and for the
   identification and recording of the location of each VDU. For example, when a
20 detector is placed in the ground, its location is to be recorded. This location will then
   be used to identify the details required in order to issue an infringement notice to an
   offending vehicle. The backend system 1 further provides backend processing of all
   PINs, and also stores all signage information so as to be able to determine if a vehicle
   has committed an offence.
25
   In this embodiment the backend 1 is a dashboard device and must also thus provide for
   dashboard functionality such as aggregating data to facilitate a dashboard overview of
   data across multiples VDUs and multiple HHDs. The back end system 1 also
   communicates with VDUs 4 (via the wireless communication channel) and, as required,
30 upgrades software running in the VDU, determines if a given VDU is operating as
   expected, downloads data from the VDUs for aggregation, and communicates with the
   handheld device 3 for example to inform it of the presence of a vehicle.
   The middle tier 2 is the layer between the VDUs 4 in the ground on the one hand, and
35 the backend system 1 and/or HHD 3 on the other hand. That is, the middle tier 2
   communicates with both the VDUs 4 and the backend system 1 and/or HHD 3.

                                                 20
   Depending on the end architecture and design, the middle tier 2 may be required to
   communicate information to the hand held devices 3, store details and data being
   received from the VDUs 4, aggregate data and send it to the backend system 1, and
   communicate with the VDUs 4 to determine device health.
 5
   The hand held device (HHD) 3 is carried by a parking officer, and receives
   communications regarding the details of an infringement (or pending infringement) and
   is provided with "pre populated" details which are automatically passed into the PINS
   for processing by the officer. The data fields provided for automated pre-population
10 include Offence Type, Offence Date and Time, Offence Location (e.g Street No., Street
   Name, Suburb), Parking Bay Identifier, Vehicle Arrival Time, Vehicle Stay Duration,
   Location Information (e.g. Side of Street, Between Streets, Near <Descriptor>),
   Parking Sign Information (e.g IP Mon-Fri, 8:00am to 6:00pm, No Exemptions),
   Parking Restriction and Officer Notes. Such communications could arrive from the
15 back-end system 1, from a middle tier 2 separate to the HHD, or directly from the
   VDUs 4.
   The Vehicle Detection Units (VDUs) 4 are placed into the ground beneath each vehicle
   parking space. The readings taken by a sensor of each unit are used by the vehicle
20 detection algorithm (VDA) run by the VDU to determine the presence of a vehicle.
   Depending on the end architecture and design, each VDU 4 may be required to send a
   signal identifying itself, send a signal defining the magnetic field reading, send a signal
   defining the presence of a vehicle over the detector, send a signal defining the history
   of vehicle movements within the bay, and/or be able to download new firmware as
25 required.
   In using the readings of the sensor, the VDU 4 has the capability to calculate and store
   an averaged baseline for the "background reading" for the detector, and in determining
   this background reading the VDU has the capability to take into account variations in
30 the temperature and other factors that may affect the detector. Each VDU 4 stores the
   temperature for a "reasonable period" and the background reading for a "reasonable
   period", and determines the affect of the background reading on temperature, and
   applies this to the calculation. Each VDU 4 holds signage information and goes into a
   power saving mode at times when restrictions do not apply.
35

                                                 21
   The VDUs 4 are also able to download new firmware algorithms as required, reboot
   themselves, receive a signal instructing a change in the frequency of the sensor
   readings, receive a signal instructing a change in the frequency at which a signal is sent
   to the listening devices 2, 3 indicating the presence of a vehicle, and upload any stored
 5 data. An advantage of a VDU having such wireless connectivity is that the topologies
   of Figures 1, 2 and 5 do not specifically require a 3 rd party wireless network. Further,
   the ability of the VDU to execute the VDA allows the VDU to communicate to the
   listening devices 2, 3 that a vehicle is present and for how long it has been present.
10 Figure 7 illustrates operation of an "intelligent" VDU 710 in accordance with yet
   another embodiment of the present invention. This topology is in a number of ways the
   same as the "smart" VDU described with reference to Figure 5, except as set out below.
   In this embodiment the VDUs 710 store each reading, such as the readings of Figure 3,
   for a period of time (say 1 month). The VDU 710 determines if a vehicle has infringed
15 by referring to signage details of the bay stored by the VDU 710. Such stored signage
   details include definition of date and time details, and for each uniquely designated
   period, the allowed length of stay, the start time and the end time. An advantage of the
   intelligent VDU is that the VDU is able to communicate to the listening device the fact
   that the vehicle is in violation, and is not required to continuously broadcast the
20 "vehicle present" signal.
   A "dumb" middle tier may be employed in some embodiments.              In this scenario the
   middle tier acts like a router and passes all data received from the VDUs on to the
   backend system supplying only secure communications and ensuring that all signals
25 received are passed on and subsequently received at the other end. This system could
   be used in conjunction with either Intelligent or Smart VDUs. The VDUs behave as
   outlined above, the dumb middle tier will receive signals from all VDUs that it is
   configured to receive data from, and then securely transmits this data to the backend
   system.    The backend system communicates this data to any HHD that requests or
30 requires the information.     This communication could be done via the middle tier' s
   wireless network already in place, or alternatively via GPRS or other wireless network
   to the HHDs in the field The data includes street details and infringement details for
   issuing of a PIN.
35 Advantages of the dumb middle tier include that the risk of over engineering is small
   with this solution, the cost impost of providing this "router" is less than having a

                                               22
   complete computer system deployed into the field, and there is one central redundant
   backend system which is fully tunable and upgradeable as opposed to many deployed
   remote smart middle tiers or deployed remote smart VDU' s.
 5 In still further embodiments a smart middle tier (with smart VDUs) may be deployed.
   In this scenario the middle tier provides the sophisticated functionality of the backend
   head office system, including receiving signals from the VDUs and storing this data in
   its own database. The topology of this system is illustrated in Figure 8. This system
   would work as follows. The Smart VDUs behave as outlined above, the smart middle
10 tier will receive signals from all VDU' s that it isconfigured to receive data from. The
   smart middle tier is constantly broadcasting wake-up messages on the designated
   frequency to all VDU' s that are within range. Oncea VDU comes within range of the
   smart middle tier, it responds to the connect message back to the smart middle Tier.
   The smart middle tier then handshakes with the VDU and requests data indicating how
15 long the vehicle has been above the VDU (0 mins for no vehicle present), the MAC
   address of the VDU, and the vehicle movement in the bay since the VDU last spoke to
   the smart middle tier
   The middle Tier would then subsequently be responsible for determining if the vehicle
20 in that bay is in violation of parking, communicate to a HHD which bay has a vehicle
   over it, and pass street details and infringement details to the handheld device for
   issuing of a PIN. Advantages if the smart middle tier include that by using smart
   VDU' s, a permanent connection to the smart middle ter is not required in order to
   detect the presence of a vehicle. Subsequently the infrastructure costs are reduced as it
25 is not required to affix the middle tiers to infrastructure every 100 metres or so.
   Further, this topology does not require a 3'd party permanent wireless network to
   communicate to the hand held devices. This would be done in a piece meal basis, by
   the smart middle tier as violations are detected.     Also, HHDs communicate via the
   middle tier (and not the VDU' s) and a smaller set of communications is required for
30 both the VDU and hand held. The handheld receives infringement data and the street
   details, and is not required to have this data stored and determine the bay details from
   its internal database. This topology also lowers battery requirements due to the VDU
   only communicating when the smart middle tier comes within range.
35 The topology of Figure 8 does not require a permanent connection to any backend
   system. Moreover, use of a smart VDU means the smart middle tier is only required to

                                                23
   communicate to the back end and the VDUs in a piecemeal fashion, for example upon
   docking at the end of a working day. The topology of Figure 8 allows the smart middle
   tier to be mobile as it is not always required to be calculating the presence of a vehicle
   in any particular space. Further, any firmware upgrade of the VDUs can be done via
 5 the smart middle tier, and the VDUs are required to only store the details of vehicle
   movements since the last time that the smart middle tier communicated.         The VDUs
   only have to communicate when asked which extends VDU battery life. The backend
   system is only required to know about the signage, which is transferred to the smart
   middle Tier, and only what is required to be printed for the PIN is passed to the HHD.
10
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
   without departing from the scope of the invention as broadly described. The present
   embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not
15 restrictive.

                                               24
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.      A vehicle detection unit (VDU) comprising:
           a magnetic sensor able to sense variations in magnetic field and for outputting a
   sensor signal caused by occupancy of a vehicle space by a vehicle;
 5         a storage device carrying parameters which define notifiable vehicle space
   occupancy events;
           a processor operable to process the sensor signal to determine occupancy status
   of the vehicle space, and operable to compare the occupancy status of the vehicle space
   with the parameters in order to determine whether a notifiable event has occurred, and
10 operable to effect a communication from the vehicle detection unit to a supervisory
   device upon occurrence of a notifiable event, wherein the communication includes data
   items pertaining to the notifiable event and communicated in a format suitable for pre
   population into infringement issuing software, and wherein the communication is at
   least partially wireless.
15 2.      The vehicle detection unit of claim 1, wherein the communication is wireless
   and directly with a portable supervisory device.
   3.      The vehicle detection unit of claim 2 wherein the communication is established
   in an ad-hoc manner at times when a notifiable event has occurred and when the
   portable supervisory device is in range.
20 4.      The vehicle detection unit of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the communication is
   with a fixed supervisory device effecting a fixed middle tier.
   5.      The vehicle detection unit of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the information
   comprises at least one of: street name, parking bay number, vehicle occupancy
   duration, offence details, applicable regulations, applicable monetary         fine, and
25 historical usage data.
   6.      The vehicle detection unit of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the notifiable
   event comprises at least one of: occurrence of a parking violation, an imminent parking
   violation, a non-violating parking event of interest, and a change in occupancy status of
   the vehicle space.
30 7.      The vehicle detection unit of any one of claims 1 to 6 and further configured to
   be embedded in the roadway beneath an associated vehicle space.
   8.      The vehicle detection unit of claim 1 wherein the sensor is a 3-axis
   magnetometer able to sense components of the magnetic field in x, y and z directions.
   9.      The vehicle detection unit of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein the processor is
35 configured to execute a vehicle detection algorithm to determine whether detected
   variations in the sensor signal are caused by a vehicle.

                                               25
   10.     The vehicle detection unit of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the parameters
   are provided in firmware, and wherein the vehicle detection unit when deployed is
   operable to receive firmware updates to the parameters.
   11.     A method for vehicle detection by a vehicle detection unit, the method
 5 comprising:
           sensing variations in magnetic field caused by occupancy of a vehicle space by a
   vehicle, and outputting a sensor signal;
           retrieving from a storage device parameters which define notifiable vehicle
   space occupancy events;
10         processing the sensor signal to determine occupancy status of the vehicle space,
   comparing the occupancy status of the vehicle space with the parameters in order to
   determine whether a notifiable event has occurred, and effecting a communication from
   the vehicle detection unit to a supervisory device upon occurrence of a notifiable event,
   wherein the communication includes data items pertaining to the notifiable event and
15 communicated in a format suitable for pre-population into an infringement issuing
   device, and wherein the communication is at least partially wireless.
   12.     The method of claim 11 wherein the sensor signal is processed in a manner to
   emphasise variations in the z-axis (vertical axis) of the magnetic field.
   13.     The method of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the communication is wireless and
20 directly with a portable supervisory device.
   14.     The method of claim 13 wherein the communication is established in an ad-hoc
   manner at times when a notifiable event has occurred and when the portable
   supervisory device is in range.
   15.     The method of any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the communication is with a
25 fixed supervisory device effecting a fixed middle tier.
   16.     The method of any one of claims 11 to 15 wherein the information comprises at
   least one of: street name, parking bay number, vehicle occupancy duration, offence
   details, applicable regulations, applicable monetary fine, and historical usage data.
   17.     The method of any one of claims 11 to 16 wherein the notifiable event
30 comprises at least one of: occurrence of a parking violation, an imminent parking
   violation, a non-violating parking event of interest, and a change in occupancy status of
   the vehicle space.
   18.     The method of any one of claims 11 to 17 wherein the processing comprises
   executing a vehicle detection algorithm to determine whether detected variations in the
35 sensor signal are caused by a vehicle.

                                               26
   19.     The method of any one of claims 11 to 18 wherein the parameters are provided
   in firmware, and further comprising receiving firmware updates to the parameters.
   20.     A method for issuing a parking infringement notice, the method comprising:
           a portable device establishing a transient wireless connection with at least one
 5 fixed vehicle detection unit (VDU);
           the portable device obtaining from the VDU via the wireless connection data
   arising from a notifiable parking event magnetically detected by the VDU by using at
   least a sensor of the VDU, the data communicated from the VDU being in a format
   suitable for pre-population into infringement issuing software; and
10         the portable device pre-populating the data into infringement issuing software
   and generating a parking infringement notice using the pre-populated data obtained
   from the VDU.
   21.     A system for detecting vehicle parking infringements, the system comprising:
           a plurality of vehicle detection units (VDUs) each associated with a respective
15 vehicle parking space and storing parameters         defining notifiable vehicle space
   occupancy events, each VDU configured to magnetically sense occupancy of the
   associated vehicle space by using at least a sensor of the VDU and determine by
   reference to the parameters whether a notifiable event has occurred, and operable to
   communicate wirelessly including wirelessly transmitting data items pertaining to the
20 notifiable event and communicated in a format suitable for pre-population into
   infringement issuing software;
           a mobile supervisory device configured to wirelessly communicate with each
   respective VDU when brought within range, to receive information from the VDU
   arising from a notifiable parking event detected by the VDU, to pre-populate received
25 data items into infringement issuing software and to generate a parking infringement
   notice using the pre-populated data items obtained from the VDU.
   22.     The system of claim 21 wherein the mobile supervisory device is a portable
   digital device carried by a parking inspector.
   23.     The system of claim 21 wherein the mobile supervisory device is vehicle
30 mounted.
   24.     The system of any one of claims 21 to 23 wherein the supervisory device
   collates data from a plurality of VDUs for simultaneous display to a parking officer.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
