ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a fibrous haemostat composition that is able to safely
gradually and fully degrade in a human or animal body within about 30 days and so
can be utilised by physicians to stem a flow of blood and promote healing both after
as well as during surgical procedures.

                                            1
                         Degradable Haemostat Composition
         The present invention relates to a haemostat composition that is capable of
 safely gradually and completely degrading within the body of a human or animal, and
 can therefore be utilised by physicians to stem a flow of blood and promote healing
both after as well as during surgical procedures.
         Haemostat materials for use in the treatment of wounds or other openings at a
physiological target site in or on human or animal body which are exuding blood
and/or other bodily fluids have been known for some time. These haemostat materials
act to absorb the blood and/or other bodily fluids, and also stem the flow of them from
the body. Haemostat materials for such use are described in, for example, WO
2009/130485      and WO 2012/123728         to MedTrade       Products   Ltd., and are
commercially available under the trade name Celox@.
         One material that is commonly employed as a haemostat material is chitosan.
Chitosan is a known haemostat material, and is a derivative of solid waste from
shellfish processing and can be extracted from fungus culture. It is a cationic
polymeric material that is insoluble in water.
        There are many different types of chitosan that may be used as a haemostat
material, with different haemostatic properties. The different types of chitosan may
have different molecular weights, different degrees of deacetylation, different
arrangements of the two monomers, different chiral forms, or they may be derived
from different species or sources (and fungi), or may have been treated differently
during manufacture. Each of these differences can impact upon the levels of solubility
and polymer structures of the respective chitosan materials, and -therefore provide
different chitosan materials having differing haemostatic properties.

                                           2
        The control of bleeding is essential and critical during surgical procedures.
The aim of controlling bleeding is essentially to minimize blood loss, which in turn
may shorten the duration of the surgery in the operating room and ultimately lead to a
reduction in post-surgical complications. Haemostat compositions are of significant
use during surgery for this purpose, but must always be removed at the end of the
procedure when the incision in the patient is closed up.
        However, there remains a need for a haemostat composition that is able to be
used safely within the human or animal body, after as well as during surgical
procedures, and which can subsequently be allowed to remain in the body to promote
healing post-surgery. It would be beneficial to have a haemostat composition that is
safely absorbable within the body within a defined period of time, as this would
eliminate the need to remove the product prior to closure of the patient, and would
allow the haemostat composition to remain in the body to reduce the likelihood for re
bleeding post-surgery. Further, such an absorbable and degradable haemostat
composition would negate the need for further surgery to remove the haemostat. Such
a degradable haemostat composition for post-surgical use has never previously been
developed.
        Therefore, in accordance with the invention, there is provided a haemostat
composition comprising a chitosan salt or a chitosan derivative, wherein the
haemostat composition is in a fibrous form, and is able to fully degrade in a human or
animal body within about 30 days.
        By haemostatt", it is meant herein any agent which is capable of producing a
clot or plug which stops or reduces bleeding when it comes into contact with blood or
other bodily fluid.

                                           3
        By the term 'chitosan derivative' is meant herein a partially deacetylated
chitin, which may have different percentages of deacetylation, as desired. Typically,
the partially deacetylated chitin suitable for use in the present invention has a
deacetylation degree above about 50%, more typically above about 75% and most
typically above about 85%.
        Also herein included within the term 'chitosan derivative' are reaction
products of chitosan with other compounds. Such reaction products include, but are
not limited to, carboxymethyl chitosan, hydroxyl butyl chitin, N-acyl chitosan, 0-acyl
chitosan, N-alkyl chitosan, 0-alkyl chitosan, N-alkylidene chitosan, 0-sulfonyl
chitosan, sulfated chitosan, phosphorylated chitosan, nitrated chitosan, alkalichitin,
alkalichitosan, or metal chelates with chitosan, etc.The haemostat composition of the
invention will typically be completely degraded within the human or animal body
between about 1 to no more than about 30 days after its introduction into the body,
more typically within this range after about 4 days, still more typically within this
range after about 7 or about 10 days. As the haemostat composition will typically not
be completely degraded within about 24 hours, more typically not within about 4
days, or even within about 7 days, this permits the haemostat composition to remain
in the human or animal body for a sufficient period of time after the surgical
procedure or closing of a wound, so that it may aid in preventing or reducing any
incidence of re-bleeding at the physiological target site, and also aid in the healing
process. Too rapid a degradation could potentially lead to late re-bleeds and would
limit the effectiveness of the haemostat composition in aiding in the post-surgery
healing process. For example, the haemostat composition may be still be present in

                                             4
 the body about 7 days after the surgical procedure or closing of a wound, but will
 have subsequently completely degraded after 30 days.
         The haemostat composition of the invention will typically also contain a
physiologically acceptable acid. The ratio of acid to chitosan can be an important
factor in the degradation properties of the haemostat composition of the invention.
Typically, if the amount of acid in the haemostat composition is less than about 20%
by weight of the haemostat composition, such as in WO 2009/130485 to MedTrade
Products Ltd, the degradation time is greater than 30 days. A degradation period
above 30 days would mean that the product of the invention would fall into a different
medical regulatory and safety category. Conversely, if the ratio of acid is greater than
about 70% by weight of the haemostat composition, the haemostat composition
typically rapidly dissolves upon contact with blood, loses its gelling properties, and
because it degrades too quickly, it also loses its ability to be an effective haemostat.
        The chitosan salt or a chitosan derivative used in the present invention does
not need to be subjected to any heat treatment, other than optionally in the removal of
any solvents to dry the composition, which is typically done at temperatures of no
more than 40'C. No heat treatment is necessary after the composition has been dried.
This is because subjecting the composition to heat treatment would impart undesirable
increased insolubility and cohesion properties upon the haemostat composition, which
would result in the haemostat composition having reduced degradation properties,
leading to it being unable to degrade sufficiently in the body within 30 days.
        According to another embodiment of the invention, the haemostat composition
will typically have an absorption of less than about 20 g/g, more typically less than
about 15 g/g. By an absorption of less than about 20 g/g is meant that the fibres of the

                                             5
haemostat composition will absorb less than 20 g of fluid per gram of the
composition, typically about 15-18 g/g.
         US 2005/058694 to Coloplast A/S describes a wound care device comprising
chitosan in a fibrous form, the device having a high degree of cohesion after the
absorption of fluids, such that it is possible to remove a wound dressing in one piece
from a wound. This wound care device is intended only for use externally on a human
or animal body, as the chitosan fibres therein are rendered substantially water
insoluble by a heat treatment of between 60"C to 250*C that is applied after the
chitosan has already been dried, and are therefore unable to degrade within the human
or animal body within 30 days. These chitosan fibres also have an absorption level
that is higher than 20 g/g.
         The haemostat composition of the invention works effectively at normal body
temperatures (37'C).
         According to one embodiment of the invention, the haemostat composition
may be blended with other physiologically safe materials, such as, for example,
oxidised cellulose or collagen, etc. Other suitable and safely degradable materials that
may be combined with the haemostat composition will be apparent to the person
skilled in the art.
         According to one embodiment of the invention, the haemostat composition
consists of a chitosan salt or a chitosan derivative, together with a physiologically
acceptable acid. In this embodiment, no carrier material is used for the haemostat
composition.
         The physiologically acceptable acid is typically present in an amount of more
than about 20% by weight of the haemostat composition to about 70%, more typically

                                            6
25% by weight of the haemostat composition to about 65%, more typically from
about 30% to about 60% by weight of the haemostat composition, more typically
from about 30% to about 40% by weight of the haemostat composition. However,
amounts of acid of about 35%, 45%, 50% and 55% by weight of the haemostat
composition are also envisaged within the scope of the invention.
         It will be appreciated that the optimum amount of acid for a desired rate of
degradation may vary with different carboxylic acids, with different amounts of the
acid, and also with the different grades and types of chitosan detailed above.
         Examples of acids that may be used include, but are not limited to, organic
acids and/or inorganic acids, including carboxylic acids, and monovalent, divalent or
multivalent acids. Examples of carboxylic acids that may be used include, but are not
limited to, formic acid, acetic acid, ascorbic acid, halogen acetic acids (such as fluoro
or chloroacetic acid), propanoic acid, propenoic acid, lactic acid, succinic acid, acrylic
 acid, glyoxylic acid, pyruvic acid or a hydroxy propionic/butanoic acid. More
typically, the acids used are one or more acids selected from lactic, acetic and succinic
 acids. Most typically, the acid used comprises lactic and/or acetic acids, particularly
 lactic acid. Non-limiting examples of inorganic acids include one or more selected
 from hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid. The use of an acid which is already present
 in the human or animal body is advantageous in facilitating the bioacceptability of the
 haemostat composition as it degrades.
          As discussed above, the amount of acid that is present in the haemostat
 composition can significantly impact upon the degradation properties of the
 composition, and may also be determined by the form of the haemostat composition
 that is to be used.

                                            7
         The haemostat composition of the invention is in fibrous form. By fibrous
form is meant herein that the chitosan is composed of fibres of a desired size or sizes,
and is formed into a textile fabric or a pad for use. The textile fabric or pad may be
woven or non-woven.
         Typically, the fibres have a minimum average length of about 3 mm and a
maximum length of about 500 mm, more typically no more than about 76 mm. The
preferred length of the fibres is at least 10; more preferred at least 25 and most
preferred at least 50 mm.
         Alternatively, the haemostat composition of the invention may comprise nano
fibres, i.e. fibres having a diameter of no more than about 100 microns. Similarly, the
length of the nano-fibres is no more than about 100 microns.
         The haemostat composition of the invention typically comprises a chitosan
salt. The chitosan salt is typically prepared in situ when chitosan comes into contact
with an appropriate acid. It will be appreciated that the acid may be any acid which
yields a chitosan salt that is soluble in bodily fluids and that can be safely degraded
within the human or animal body. The appropriate acids or combination of acids for
yielding a soluble chitosan salt will be apparent to a skilled person. For example, an
acid that yields a chitosan salt that is substantially insoluble in water would be less
suitable as the acid for this purpose. Typical chitosan salts include herein, but are not
limited to, one or more salts selected from chitosan acetate, chitosan lactate, chitosan
 succinate, chitosan malate, chitosan acrylate, chitosan formate, chitosan ascorbate,
 chitosan    fluoroacetate,  chitosan  chloroacetate,   chitosan   propanoate,  chitosan

                                             8
glyoxylate, chitosan pyruvate, chitosan sulphate or chitosan chloride. More typically,
the chitosan salt used in the present invention is chitosan lactate.
         Chitosan can act as a haemostat in two ways; either by gelling with water in
the blood and bonding to wet tissue to plug a wound, or by dissolving and bonding
with the surface of red blood cells to create a clot-like gel. The properties of the
combinations of chitosan and acid are dependent upon the precise nature of the
chitosan (e.g. molecular weight and degree of deacetylation), as well as the particular
acid used and the quantities present.
         Chitosan salts are ideally suited for the applications described herein as
chitosan is readily broken down in the body. Chitosan is converted to glucosamine by
the enzyme lysozyme and is therefore excreted from the body naturally. It is not
necessary to take any measures to remove the chitosan from the body.
         Furthermore, chitosan salts exhibit mild antibacterial properties and as such
their use reduces the risk of infection.
         Typically, the molecular weight of the chitosan used for the preparation of the
haemostat composition according to the present invention is less than about
2,000,000, more typically less than about 1,000,000, and even more typically less than
 about 500,000, and most typically less than about 175,000.
         The viscosity of the chitosan used according to the invention may typically be
 less than about 1000 cps, more typically less than about 500, even more typically less
than about 300. Advantageously, the viscosity is from about 40 to about 200 cps when
 measured on a Brookfield viscometer at 20 0 C.

                                             9
        The chitosan typically has a pH of from about 6.0 to about 8.0. Chitosan salts
can have a pH from about 3.5 to about 8.0. The pH is largely dependent upon the
particular chitosan or chitosan salt used, as they each have a different pH.
        The chitosan material may be provided in a sterile or non-sterile form. Where
the material is initially provided in a non-sterile form, sterilisation may be carried out
using any of the known methods, such as gamma irradiation, electron beam treatment,
heat treatment, etc, or by treatment using ethylene oxide. A material in a non-sterile
form may be provided in combination with one or more preservatives. However, for a
greater ease of use for a physician, it is preferred that the haemostat composition is
provided in a pre-sterilised form.
        In accordance with the invention, it is possible to control the rate of
degradation of the haemostat composition by selecting particular combinations of
chitosan properties, such as molecular weight or viscosity, or selecting a particular
chitosan salt, as well as by varying the amount and type of the carboxylic acid
component.
        Of course, in order that the haemostat composition of the invention is able to
be safely inserted into the human or animal body, it must be entirely physiologically
acceptable, and only contain components that are not harmful to the human or animal
body.
        The physiological target site may be any site in the body of an animal that is
exposed during a surgical procedure. The animal may be a human or a non-human
animal.
        The haemostatic composition described herein provides and maintains
effective haemostasis when applied to a wound requiring haemostasis. Effective

                                               10
haemostasis, as used herein, is the ability to control and/or abate capillary, venous, or
arteriole bleeding within an effective time, as recognized by those skilled in the art of
haemostasis.
        In certain embodiments, the haemostatic composition of the present invention
is effective in providing and maintaining haemostasis in cases of severe or brisk
bleeding. As used herein, severe bleeding is meant to include those cases of bleeding
where a relatively high volume of blood is lost at a relatively high rate. Examples of
severe bleeding include, without limitation, bleeding due to arterial puncture, liver
resection, blunt liver trauma, blunt spleen trauma, aortic aneurysm, bleeding from
patients with over-anticoagulation, or bleeding from patients with coagulopathies,
such as haemophilia.
        The haemostatic composition herein also provides and maintains effective
haemostasis when applied to a wound whereby the patient and/or person requiring
haemostasis are on anti-coagulant therapy, for example, heparin and warfarin.
        In surgical procedures whereby haemostasis may be critical to survival of the
patient, it is therefore desirable to have a haemostatic composition that does not
require preparation and that is ready for use upon removal from its packaging. The
haemostatic composition of the invention fulfils this requirement. Also, the
haemostatic composition of the invention is capable of being applied on either surface
thereof, reducing the risk of incorrect application.
         It is also beneficial to deliver a haemostat composition that is able to adhere to
the body tissues, ensuring that any haemostat product is not removed due to
movement and stays in place until it is fully absorbed by the body, reducing the risk
of re-bleeding. The haemostatic composition of the invention has a known metabolic

                                            11
pathway, via the known conversion of chitosan to glucosamine by the lysozyme, so
the body can dispose of it in a safe manner.
        Further components which may be added to the haemostat composition
include, but are not limited to, one or more selected from pharmaceutical agents;
wetting agents such as surfactants; growth factors; cytokines; agents which absorb
agents which delay healing such as MMP's (matrix metalloproteinases) and elastase;
and/or another haemostat component, such as calcium, vitamin K, fibrinogen,
thrombin, factor VII, factor VIII, clays such as kaolin, oxidised regenerated cellulose,
gelatin, or collagen, etc. The inclusion of a wetting agent, such as, for example,
pluronic acid, aids the absorbency of the composition by increasing the rate of
absorption. Typical levels of any of these components could be from about 50 ppm
levels up to about 50% by weight of the haemostat composition. More typical levels
would be less than about 10%, still more typically less than about 5%, by weight of
the haemostat composition. Less than about 1% by weight of the haemostat
composition of these components is also envisaged.
        In order to evaluate the degradation properties of the haemostat composition,
the composition has been tested in solutions which closely replicate the conditions
within the human or animal body in which it would be used. As such, the haemostat
composition of the invention has been shown to degrade in lysozyme solution, serum
and simulated wound fluid. The simulated wound fluid contains 50% Fetal Bovine
Serum and 50% Peptone water (0.9% NaCl + 0.1% peptone in de-ionised H2 0).
        Firstly, the haemostat composition of the invention is immersed in a solution
of one or more of lysozyme solution, serum and simulated wound fluid. In each case,
the volume of the solution is greater than maximum absorbency of the composition.

                                             12
         The haemostat composition and the solution is then sealed and incubated at
37"C - i.e. body temperature - for a period of up to 30 days.
         During this period, the degradation of the haemostat composition is visually
assessed at numerous time points to determine whether the composition has
completely degraded.
         According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
manufacturing a haemostat composition comprising a chitosan salt, wherein the
haemostat composition is in fibrous form, and is able to fully degrade in a human or
animal body within about 30 days. The method may comprise coating the chitosan
salt with a physiologically acceptable acid.
         The acid may be any of those detailed hereinabove, and in any of the amounts
as detailed above. The acid is typically lactic acid, but is not limited thereto.
         Once the physiologically acceptable acid has been added, the haemostat
composition is dried.
        In making the finished fibrous haemostat composition textile product, be it
either woven or non-woven, the acid may be added to chitosan to form the salt or
derivative thereof either before or after forming a textile from the fibres. In one
embodiment, chitosan fibres may be formed into a textile and subsequently treated
with the acid; alternatively, the chitosan may be treated with the acid to form fibres of
the salt or derivative thereof, which are then themselves formed into a textile.
        In one embodiment, the chitosan may first be washed to reduce the presence of
endotoxins prior to the coating step. This may be carried out using contacting the
chitosan before its conversion to a chitosan salt or derivative, or the salt or derivative
thereof after the conversion, with an alkali solution to form a mixture, and then

                                             13
leaving the mixture for a period of time, which may be as short as about 1 minute to
longer than about 12 hours, before finally drying the mixture. By 'alkali solution' is
meant a solution having a pH value of greater than pH 7.5.
        The concentration of alkali solution used in the process may be from about
0.01M to about 1M. Typically, the concentration of alkali solution is from about
0.02M to about 0.2M, more typically about 0.1M.
        The quantity of alkali solution to chitosan may be in the range of from about 1
part chitosan to about 10 parts alkali solution up to about 10 parts chitosan to about 1
part alkali solution. Typically, the quantity of alkali solution to chitosan is about 1
part alkali solution to about 2 parts chitosan, more typically about 1 part alkali
solution to about 1 part chitosan.
        The alkali solution may comprise an alkali or alkaline earth component
selected from the following, either alone or in combination: metal hydroxides, metal
carbonates, metal bisulphites, metal persilicates, conjugate bases and ammonium
hydroxide.
        Suitable metals include sodium, potassium, calcium, or magnesium. Typically,
the alkali component is sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or sodium carbonate.
Typically, sodium hydroxide is used.
        When the haemostat composition of the invention is in the form of a textile,
the fibres of the chitosan, chitosan salt or chitosan derivative are typically carded into
a nonwoven material, or they are woven into a pad. Additionally, when the haemostat
composition of the invention is in the form of a textile, it is typically first washed to
reduce the presence of endotoxins as described above, prior to the chitosan-based

                                             14
 fibres being carded or woven, although it may be washed after the chitosan-based
fibres are carded or woven if desired.
         If both of the washing and carding/weaving steps are required, the step of
applying the acid is typically carried out only after both of the previous steps have
been completed, i.e. the acid treatment is applied to the formed textile fabric, rather
than to the simple fibres of the chitosan salt or chitosan derivative.
         Subsequently, the textile fabric or pad containing the chitosan salt or chitosan
derivative is then processed to form the final product. By way of a typical but non
limiting example, an overall process for making a haemostat composition according to
the invention in the form of a nonwoven textile, chitosan is washed with the alkali
solution, the fibres of the chitosan salt or chitosan derivative are carded into a
nonwoven form. The nonwoven textile then has the physiologically acceptable acid
applied to it to form the chitosan salt, and is then dried, before finally being cut into
pieces of the desired sizes.
        Typically, the haemostat composition is also sterilised prior to being
packaged, in order that a physician can use the composition directly from its
packaging.
        The present invention also provides a method of absorbing a discharge of a
fluid, such as blood, and also a method of stemming a flow of a fluid such as blood
from a physiological target site, comprising applying to the target site a haemostat
composition as described herein.
        According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a use of a
haemostat composition as described herein in absorbing a discharge of a bodily fluid

                                             15
from a physiological target site, or of stemming a flow of a fluid discharged from a
physiological target site.
         When the haemostat composition of the invention is used in absorbing a
discharge of a fluid, or in stemming a flow of a fluid such as blood from a
physiological target site, it is retained within a human or animal body after a medical
procedure in order to provide post-surgical haemostasis, to reduce the likelihood for
re-bleeding post-surgery and to promote post-surgical healing.
         The invention will now be described further by way of example with reference
to the following examples which are intended to be illustrative only and in no way
limiting upon the scope of the invention.
EXAMPLES
Method
         The total absorbency of the haemostat composition of the invention is
determined using simulated wound fluid, serum and lysozyme solution. This is
undertaken by determining the maximum absorbency of the materials by slowly
 adding fluid to the materials until no more can be absorbed. The amount of fluid
 absorbed is calculated from the wet weight minus the dry weight.
         Using the total absorbency volume for the material to be tested, this volume of
 lysozyme solution, simulated wound fluid or serum is decanted into a clean sealable
 beaker.
         The haemostat composition is added into the solution (the solution volume
 being greater than the maximum absorbency of the haemostat composition), ensuring

                                            16
that the weight of product is not greater than the absorbency potential for the volume
of fluid within the beaker.
        The haemostat composition and solution are sealed and incubated at 37'C (i.e.
body temperature) for up to 30 days.
        At each time point the solution is visually assessed to determine whether and
to what degree the haemostat composition has degraded.
        It is to be noted that at maximum absorbency at day 1, the degradation time is
quicker than if the same volume of solution is applied gradually over a 5 day period.
        The haemostat composition is considered to have completely degraded if the
viscosity of the lysozyme solution, simulated wound fluid or serum falls below 10 cps
as measured at 20 0 C on a Brookfield viscometer, measured by setting the viscometer
to spindle 64 and setting the spindle speed to 10rpm, or if the fluid in the beaker
becomes optically clear with no particles or insoluble matter visible to the human eye.
        The degradation data is provided in Table 1.

                                            17
        Table 1:
                            Testing / Examples
           Sample                       Days to full degradation
                                   SWF              Lysozyme solution
  Chitosan/Viscose/Acid          >30 days                >30 days
            blend
       Celox gauze               >30 days                >30 days
 Chitosan nonwoven with          >30 days                >30 days
          10% Acid
 Chitosan nonwoven with            1 day                  4 days
         35% Acid
 Chitosan nonwoven with            1 day                   1 day
         55% Acid
        In the examples in Table 1, a chitosan nonwoven fabric, 135gsm, was coated
with the designated quantity of a lactic acid solution, dried, and then sterilised under
gamma irradiation.
        It can therefore be seen that the fibrous haemostat compositions according to
the invention degrade effectively over a desired period of between 1 and 30 days in
conditions designed to replicate those that would be encountered in the human or
animal body, and would be able to safely remain in the human or animal body post-

                                              18
surgery to aid in reducing and preventing incidences of re-bleeding and promoting
healing, before completely degrading and being excreted from the body naturally.
         It is of course to be understood that the present invention is not intended to be
restricted to the foregoing examples which are described by way of example only.
         This application is a divisional application from Australian application 2014272869.
The full dislosure of AU2014272869 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                 19
Claims
     1. A haemostat composition comprising a chitosan salt or a chitosan derivative, wherein
          the haemostat composition is in a fibrous form, wherein the haemostat composition
          has an absorption of less than 20 g/g, and is able to fully degrade in a human or
          animal body within about 30 days.
     2. A haemostat composition according to claim 1, wherein the haemostat composition is
          still present in the human or animal body after about 24 hours.
     3. A haemostat composition according to claim 2, wherein complete degradation of the
          haemostat composition occurs after more than about 4 days but less than about 30
          days.
     4. A haemostat composition according to claim 3, wherein complete degradation of the
          haemostat composition occurs after more than about 7 days but less than about 30
          days.
     5. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, further comprising a
          physiologically acceptable acid.
     6. A haemostat composition according to claim 5, wherein the physiologically
          acceptable acid is present in an amount of between about 20% and about 70% by
          weight of the haemostat composition.
     7. A haemostat composition according to claim 6, wherein the physiologically
          acceptable acid is present in an amount of between about 30% and about 60% by
          weight of the haemostat composition.
     8. A haemostat composition according to claim 7, wherein the physiologically
          acceptable acid is present in an amount of between about 30% and about 60% by
          weight of the haemostat composition.
3539351vl

                                                 20
     9. A haemostat         composition   according   to  any preceding     claim, wherein     the
          physiologically acceptable acid comprises an organic acid and/or an inorganic acid.
     10. A haemostat composition according to claim 9, wherein the organic acid comprises a
          carboxylic acid.
     11. A haemostat composition according to claim 10, wherein the carboxylic acid is
          selected from formic acid, acetic acid, ascorbic acid, halogen acetic acids, propanoic
          acid, propenoic acid, lactic acid, succinic acid, acrylic acid, glyoxylic acid, pyruvic
          acid or a hydroxy propionic/butanoic acid, and combinations of any two or more
          thereof.
     12. A haemostat composition according to claim 11, wherein the carboxylic acid is
          selected from lactic, acetic and succinic acids, and combinations of any two or more
          thereof.
     13. A haemostat composition according to claim 12, wherein the carboxylic acid is lactic
          acid.
     14. A haemostat composition according to claim 9, wherein the inorganic acid comprises
          one or more of hydrochloric acid and/or sulphuric acid.
     15. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the haemostat
          composition comprises a chitosan salt.
     16. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the chitosan salt
          comprises one or more salts selected from chitosan acetate, chitosan lactate, chitosan
          succinate, chitosan malate, chitosan acrylate, chitosan formate, chitosan ascorbate,
          chitosan   fluoroacetate,   chitosan  chloroacetate,  chitosan   propanoate,   chitosan
          glyoxylate, chitosan pyruvate, chitosan sulphate or chitosan chloride.
     17. A haemostat composition according to claim 16, wherein the chitosan salt comprises
          chitosan lactate.
3539351vI

                                                 21
     18. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the composition
          is made without subjecting the composition to any heat treatment after the
          composition has been dried.
     19. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the fibres have a
          minimum average length of about 3 mm and a maximum length of about 500 mm.
     20. A haemostat composition according to claim 19, wherein the fibres have a length of
          between about 10 mm and about 76 mm.
     21. A haemostat composition according to any of claims 1-18, wherein the fibres have a
          diameter of no more than 100 microns.
     22. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the molecular
          weight of the chitosan used for the preparation of the haemostat composition is less
          than about 500,000.
     23. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the viscosity of
          the chitosan used for the preparation of the haemostat composition is from about 40 to
          about 200 cps when measured at 20C.
     24. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the particulate
          haemostat composition is in the form of a textile fabric or a pad.
     25. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the haemostat
          composition is sterilised.
     26. A haemostat composition according to any preceding claim, further comprising one or
          more components selected from pharmaceutical agents; wetting agents; colouring
          agents; processing aids; bulking agents; absorbent polymers; antimicrobial agents;
          growth factors; cytokines; agents which absorb agents which delay healing, and/or
          another haemostat component.
     27. A method of manufacturing a haemostat composition according to any of claims 1-26.
3539351vl

                                                 22
     28. A method according to claim 27, comprising coating the chitosan salt or chitosan
          derivative with a physiologically acceptable acid.
     29. A method according to claim 27 or claim 28, further comprising the step of washing
          chitosan prior to forming the chitosan salt to reduce the presence of endotoxins prior
          to the coating step, the washing comprising contacting the chitosan with an alkali
          solution to form a mixture, and then leaving the mixture for a period of time before
          drying it.
     30. A method according to any of claims 27-29, further forming the fibres into a woven or
          non-woven textile fabric.
     31. A method according to any of claims 28-30, wherein the physiologically acceptable
          acid is only applied after the formation of the fibres into a woven or non-woven
          textile fabric.
     32. A method of absorbing fluid discharged from a physiological target site, or of
          stemming a flow of a fluid discharged from a physiological target site, comprising
          applying to the physiological target site a haemostat composition according to any of
          claims 1-26.
     33. Use of a haemostat composition according to any of claims 1-26 in absorbing fluid
          discharged from a physiological target site, or in stemming a flow of a fluid
          discharged from a physiological target site.
     34. A method or use according to claim 33 or 33, wherein the haemostat composition
          according to any of claims 1-26 is retained within a human or animal body after a
          medical procedure.
3539351vl

