                                      Abstract
The present invention provides moving components hydraulic straightening platform
for shaft parts, which comprises a press machine arranged on the upper end of the
base, wherein, the horizontal table on the upper end of the base is provided with a
mounting base and V-shaped lifting device that are symmetrical along the axis, the
mounting base is provided with two spindles respectively, one of the spindles at the
upper end of the mounting base is connected with the output shaft of the motor, the
spindles are provided with a rotating wheel respectively, one side of the base is
provided with a lead screw and a cylindrical guide, the guide sleeve is sleeved on the
lead screw and the cylindrical guide, one end of the lead screw is connected with the
servo motor. The present invention has the advantages of simple structure, reasonable
and compact structure design. It performs the hydraulic calibration by jacking up the
shaft parts with the hydraulic cylinder, eliminating the requirements for dispatching
parts repeatedly to save labor and ensure safety. It enables a 360-degree continuous
measurement for shaft parts with no need to remove the parts from the base so as to
shorten the time for measurement and make straightening more convenient and faster.

        101
      9
      8     2
            3
              12
Fig. I

     Moving Components of Hydraulic Straightening Platform For
                                      Shaft Parts
 5 Technical Field
         The present invention belongs to the technical field of shaft straightening and in
   particular relates to moving components of hydraulic straightening platform for shaft
   parts.
10 Background
         Heat treatment refers to a metal thermal processing to change the surface or
   internal chemical composition and structure of materials in order to obtain the desired
   performance by means of heating, heat preservation and cooling for the metal
   materials in solid state. Shaft parts, especially the critical parts, need to be
15 heat-treated. Many of the heat-treated shaft parts suffer from deformation due to
   uneven heating, resulting the cylindricity of shaft parts fails to meet the requirements.
         Commonly used straightening methods for deformation after heat treatment
   include flame straightening, hydraulic straightening and so on. As the flame
   straightening shows no obvious effects on shaft parts, press machine straightening is
20 often used for shaft parts during the actual application. However, in existing
   straightening methods, repeated measurement and straightening are often performed
   after the press machine straightening, while lifting are performed by traveling crane
   for many times. These will affect the processing efficiency for shaft parts, and the
   repeated operations will waste manpower.
25       Therefore, the invention for moving components of hydraulic straightening
   platform for shaft parts is quite necessary.
   Summary of the Invention
         To solve the technical problems mentioned above, the present invention provides

   moving components of hydraulic straightening platform for shaft parts.
         Moving components of hydraulic straightening platform for shaft parts,
   comprises: press machine, lead screw, micrometer, guide sleeve, servo motor,
   V-shaped lifting device, mounting base, rotating wheel, spindle, motor, base and
 5 cylindrical guide; wherein, the press machine is arranged on the upper end of the base,
   the horizontal table on the upper end of the base is provided with the mounting base
   and V-shaped lifting device that are symmetrical along the axis, the mounting base is
   provided with two spindles respectively, and one of the spindles at the upper end of
   the mounting base is connected with the output shaft of the motor, the spindles are
10 provided with a rotating wheel respectively, one side of the base is provided with a
   lead screw and a cylindrical guide, the guide sleeve is sleeved on the lead screw and
   the cylindrical guide, one end of the lead screw is connected with the servo motor;
         wherein, the test method comprises:
         lifting and placing: 1) which is to move the mounting base away from the
15 position right under the press machine and to use traveling crane to move the shaft
   parts to the rotating wheels of the mounting base, and at the same time, to ensure that
   the four rotating wheels at the front and rear ends of the shaft parts can be in contact
   with the rotating wheels;
         measuring: 2) which is to turn on the hydraulic cylinder of the V-shaped lifting
20 device so that the piston rod of the hydraulic cylinder pushes the shaft parts off the
   rotating wheels and the micrometer will just come into contact with the surface of the
   shaft parts, to turn on the servo motor so that the micrometer at the upper end of the
   guide sleeve starts to move from one end of the shaft parts to the other end, wherein,
   at this time, the operator should read the micrometer readings to ensure that the value
25 is less than the standard value, andin case the micrometer moves to a certain position
   wherein the readings exceeds the standard value, the operator needs to mark the
   excessive position by using a chalk or marker;
         operation for exceeding: 3) which is to press the marked position by using the
   press plate of the press machine,        once the pressure is completed, to use the
                                               2

   micrometer to measure the reading at the position, wherein, if it still exceeds the
   stand value, continue to press the position by the press machine until it reaches the
   standard value;
        rotation measurement: 4) which is to repeat the measurement, wherein, if the
 5 measurement results of the micrometer are still excessive, to continue the operations
   above; if the cylindricity of the shaft parts meets the requirements, the piston rod of
   the hydraulic cylinder will retreat and the shaft parts will lower to the rotating wheels,
   then to turn on the motor to drive the rotating wheels to rotate by 90 degrees, and to
   repeat the steps for measurement and operation for exceeding mentioned above, the
10 360-degree measurement will be completed once it rotated for three times,and once
   the standard value is reached, to proceed to the next step;
        lifting away: 5) which is to use the traveling crane to lift the shaft parts away
   from the base, and to leave them for 1 hour before use.
        Preferably, the V-shaped lifting device comprises guide post, hydraulic cylinder,
15 V-shaped block, spring and support; wherein, he guide post passes through the two
   sides of the V-shaped block and is arranged on the V-shaped block, the support is
   fixed onto the base.
        Preferably, the guide posts on the two sides of the V-shaped block are sleeved
   with a spring respectively.
20      Preferably, the upper end of the guide sleeve is fixed to a micrometer.
        Preferably, the center axis in the horizontal direction of the V-shaped block, the
   central axis in the horizontal direction for the press plate of the press machine and the
   horizontal symmetric line for the two spindles on one side of the base are in the same
   vertical plane.
25      Preferably, one end of the piston rod of the hydraulic cylinder on the base is
   connected with the V-shaped block.
        Preferably, the lower end of the mounting base is provided with rollers that can
   move back and forth.
        Compared with the prior art, the present invention has the following beneficial
                                                 3

         effects:
         1, The present invention has the advantages of simple structure, reasonable and
   compact structure design. It performs the hydraulic calibration by jacking up the shaft
   parts with the hydraulic cylinder, eliminating the requirements for dispatching parts
 5 repeatedly to save labor and ensure safety;
         2, The present invention adopts the combined V-shaped lifting device and
   rotating wheels, enabling a 360-degree continuous measurement for shaft parts with
   no need to remove the parts from the base so as to shorten the time for measurement
   and making straightening more convenient and faster.
10       3,  The present invention uses the moving micrometer to perform a moving
   measurement along the same generatrix (in same shaft diameter) of the axis. The
   measurement result is reliable and accurate, and the work is labor-saving and
   convenient, significantly reducing the personnel allocation.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
15       Fig. 1 shows the three-dimensional structure of the present invention.
         Fig. 2 is the left side view of the present invention.
         Fig. 3 is the right side view of the present invention.
         Fig. 4 shows the structure of the V-shaped lifting device in Fig. 1 according to
   the present invention.
20       In the drawings:
         1-press machine, 2-lead screw, 3-micrometer, 4-guide sleeve, 5-servo motor,
   6-V-shaped lifting device, 7-mounting base, 8-rotating wheel, 9-spindle, 10-motor,
    11-base, 12-cylindrical guide;
         V-shaped lifting device: 60-guide post, 61-hydraulic cylinder, 62-V-shaped
25 block, 63-spring, 64-support.
   Detailed Description of the Embodiments
         The present invention is further described below with reference to the drawings:
         Embodiments:
         As shown in Fig. 1 to Fig. 4, the present invention provides moving components
                                                  4

   of hydraulic straightening platform for shaft parts, comprising: press machine 1, lead
   screw 2, micrometer 3, guide sleeve 4, servo motor 5, V-shaped lifting device 6,
   mounting base 7, rotating wheel 8, spindle 9, motor 10, base 11 and cylindrical guide
    12; wherein, the press machine 1 is arranged on the upper end of the base 11, the
 5 horizontal table on the upper end of the base 11 is provided with the mounting base 7
   and V-shaped lifting device 6 that are symmetrical along the axis, the mounting base
   7 is provided with two spindles 9 respectively, one of the spindles 9 at the upper end
   of the mounting base 7 is connected with the output shaft of the motor 10, the
   spindles 9 are provided with a rotating wheel 8 respectively, driven by the motor 10,
10 the spindles 9 can drive the shaft parts on the rotating wheel 8 to rotate by a certain
   angle, one side of the base 11 is provided with a lead screw 2 and a cylindrical guide
    12, the guide sleeve 4 is sleeved on the lead screw 2 and the cylindrical guide 12, one
   end of the lead screw 2 is connected with the servo motor 5, the servo motor 5 drives
   the screw 2 to rotate so that the guide sleeve 4 on the lead screw 2 will move along
15 the cylindrical guide 12 to allow the micrometer 3 on the upper end of the guide
   sleeve 4 to linearly measure the surface of the shaft parts;
          wherein, the test method comprises:
          lifting and placing: 1) which is to moving the mounting base 7 away from the
   position right under the press machine 1 and to use traveling crane to move the shaft
20 parts to the rotating wheels 8 of the mounting base 7, and at this time, to ensure that
   the four rotating wheels 8 at the front and rear ends of the shaft parts can be in contact
   with the rotating wheels 8;
          measuring: 2) which is to turn on the hydraulic cylinder 61 of the V-shaped
   lifting device 6 so that the piston rod of the hydraulic cylinder 61 pushes the shaft
25 parts off the rotating wheels 8 and the micrometer 3 will just come into contact with
   the surface of the shaft parts, to turn on the servo motor 5 so that the micrometer 3 at
   the upper end of the guide sleeve 4 starts to move from one end of the shaft parts to
   the other end, wherein, at this time, the operator should read the micrometer 3
   readings to ensure that the value is less than the standard value, And in case the
                                                 5

   micrometer 3 moves to a certain position wherein the readings exceeds the standard
   value, the operator needs to mark the excessive position by using a chalk or marker;
         operation for exceeding: 3) which is to press the marked position by using the
   press plate of the press machine 1, once the pressure is completed, to use the
 5 micrometer 3 to measure the reading at the position, wherein, if it still exceeds the
   stand value, continue to press the position by the press machine 1 until it reaches the
   standard value;
         rotation measurement: 4) which is to repeat the measurement, wherein, if the
   measurement results of the micrometer 3 are still excessive, to continue the
10 operations above; if the cylindricity of the shaft parts meets the requirements, the
   piston rod of the hydraulic cylinder 61 will retreat and the shaft parts will lower to the
   rotating wheels 8, then to turn on the motor 10 to drive the rotating wheels 8 to rotate
   by 90 degrees, and to repeat the steps for measurement and operation for exceeding
   mentioned above, the 360-degree measurement will be completed once it rotated for
15 three times, and once the standard value is reached, to proceed to the next step;
         lifting away: 5) which is to use the traveling crane to lift the shaft parts away
   from the base 11, and to leave them for 1 hour before use.
         The V-shaped lifting device 6 comprises guide post 60, hydraulic cylinder 61,
   V-shaped block 62, spring 63 and support 64; wherein, the guide post 60 passes
20 through the two sides of the V-shaped block 62 and is arranged on the V-shaped block
   62. The support 64 is fixed onto the base 11.
         The guide posts 60 on the two sides of the V-shaped block 62 are sleeved with a
   spring 63 respectively. When pressure is applied by the press machine, it provides a
   buffer and the symmetrical arrangement ensures that both sides of the V-shaped block
25 62 are stressed uniformly.
         The upper end of the guide sleeve 4 is fixed to a micrometer 3. The rotation of
   the servo motor 5 is used to drive the guide sleeve 4 to move, so that the micrometer
   3 will measure the cylindricity fluctuation of the shaft parts along the same generatrix
   thereof. It is convenient and labor-saving, and the continuous measurement is adopted
                                                 6

   to ensure an accurate and reliable measurement result.
         The center axis in the horizontal direction of the V-shaped block 62, the central
   axis in the horizontal direction for the press plate of the press machine 1 and the
   horizontal symmetric line for the two spindles 9 on one side of the base 11 are in the
 5 same vertical plane, so that to allow the shaft parts to move up and down along the
   vertical line during the lifting, thus ensuring that the axes are in the same vertical
   plane when the shaft parts are moving up and down.
         One end of the piston rod of the hydraulic cylinder 61 on the base 64 is
   connected with the V-shaped block 62. The expansion and contraction of the piston
10 rod of the hydraulic cylinder 61 is used to drive the V-shaped block 62 to move up
   and down, so as to realize the lifting of the shaft parts right above the V-shaped block
   62. The process is convenient and labor-saving.
         The lower end of the mounting base 7 is provided with rollers that can move
   back and forth, thus making the placement of parts labor-saving and convenient.
15       All analogous technical solutions that achieve the technical effects mentioned
   above and designed by utilizing the technical solution according to the present
   invention, or those designed by those skilled in the art inspired by the technical
   solution according to the present invention are fallen within the protection scope of
   the present invention.
20
                                                 7

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1. Moving components of hydraulic straightening platform for shaft parts,
   characterized in that the moving components of hydraulic straightening platform for
   shaft parts comprises: press machine, lead screw, micrometer, guide sleeve, servo
   motor, V-shaped lifting device, mounting base, rotating wheel, spindle, motor, base
 5 and cylindrical guide; wherein, the press machine is arranged on the upper end of the
   base, the horizontal table on the upper end of the base is provided with the mounting
   base and V-shaped lifting device that are symmetrical along the axis, the mounting
   base is provided with two spindles respectively, one of the spindles at the upper end
   of the mounting base is connected with the output shaft of the motor, the spindles are
10 provided with a rotating wheel respectively, one side of the base is provided with a
   lead screw and a cylindrical guide, the guide sleeve is sleeved on the lead screw and
   the cylindrical guide, one end of the lead screw is connected with the servo motor, the
   V-shaped lifting device comprises guide post, hydraulic cylinder, V-shaped block,
   spring and support; wherein the guide post passes through the two sides of the
15 V-shaped block and is arranged on the V-shaped block, the support is fixed onto the
   base, the lower end of the mounting base is provided with rollers that can move back
   and forth.
        2. The moving components of hydraulic straightening platform for shaft parts
   according to Claim 1, characterized in that the guide posts on the two sides of the
20 V-shaped block are sleeved with a spring respectively.
        3. The moving components hydraulic straightening platform for shaft parts
   according to Claim 1, characterized in that the upper end of the guide sleeve is fixed
   to a micrometer.
                                               8

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

