                          ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a new composition and medical
implant made therefrom, the composition comprising a thick
diffusion hardened zone, and preferably further comprising a
ceramic layer. The present invention relates to orthopedic implants
comprising the new composition, methods of making the new
composition,   and methods     of making      orthopedic   implants
comprising the new composition.

                                                -1
                      DIFFUSION-HARDENED MEDICAL IMPLANT
             This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a
further divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a further
divisional of Australian Patent No 2013251247, which is yet a further divisional of Australian
Patent No. 2006333519, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
             [0001]    This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application serial no.
60/750,557, filed December 15, 2005.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
             [0002]    The present invention relates to diffusion hardening in medical implants,
for example, in articulating and non-articulating surfaces of medical implants. While the
present invention is useful in hard-on-soft applications (e.g., a diffusion hardened medical
implant component articulating against polyethylene), it is also useful in hard-on-hard
applications (e.g., a diffusion hardened medical implant component articulating against
another diffusion hardened medical implant component or against other hard materials and
ceramics) in a hip, knee, spinal, or other implant.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             [0003]     Medical implant materials, in particular orthopedic implant materials,
must combine high strength, corrosion resistance and tissue compatibility. The longevity of
the implant is of prime importance especially if the recipient of the implant is relatively young
because it is desirable that the implant function for the complete lifetime of a patient. Because
certain metal alloys have the required mechanical strength and biocompatibility, they are ideal
candidates for the fabrication of prostheses.       These alloys include 316L stainless steel,
chrome-cobalt-molybdenum alloys (Co-Cr), titanium alloys and more recently zirconium
alloys which have proven to be the most suitable materials for the fabrication of load-bearing
and non-load bearing prostheses.
             [0004]    To this end, oxidized zirconium orthopedic implants have been shown to
reduce polyethylene wear significantly. The use of diffusion-hardened oxide surfaces such as
oxidized zirconium in orthopedic applications was first demonstrated by Davidson in U.S.
Patent No. 5,037,438. Previous attempts have been made to produce oxidized zirconium

  coatings on zirconium parts for the purpose of increasing their abrasion resistance. One such
 process is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,615,885 to Watson which discloses a procedure for
  developing thick (up to 0.23 mm) oxide layers on Zircaloy 2 and Zircaloy 4. However, this
 procedure results in significant dimensional changes especially for parts having a thickness
 below about 5 mm, and the oxide film produced does not exhibit especially high abrasion
 resistance.
              [0005J   U.S. Patent No. 2,987,352 to Watson discloses a method of producing a
 blue-black oxide coating on zirconium alloy parts for the purpose of increasing their abrasion
 resistance.    Both U.S. Patent No. 2,987,352 and U.S. Patent No. 3,615,885 produce a
 zirconium oxide coating on zirconium alloy by means of air oxidation.          U.S. Patent No.
 3,615,885 continues the air oxidation long enough to produce a beige coating of greater
 thickness than the blue-black coating of U.S. Patent No. 2,987,352. This beige coating does
 not have the wear resistance of the blue-black coating and is thus not applicable to many
 components where there are two work faces in close proximity. The beige coating wears
 down more quickly than the blue-black oxide coating with the resulting formation of oxidized
 zirconium particles and the loss of the integrity of the oxidized zirconium surface. With the
 loss of the oxide surface the zirconium metal is then exposed to its environment and can lead
to transport of zirconium ions into the adjacent environment.
              [00061   The blue-black coatings have a thickness which is less than that of the
beige coating although the hardness of the blue-black coating is higher than that of the beige
coating. This harder blue-black oxide coating lends itself better to surfaces such as prosthetic
devices. Although the blue-black coating is more abrasion resistant than the beige coating it
is a relatively thin coating.      It is therefore desirable to produce new and improved
compositions that maintain the desirable properties of the blue-black coatings of the prior art
(for example, increased abrasion resistance).
             [0007]    As discussed above, U.S. Patent No. 5,037,438 to Davidson discloses a
method of producing zirconium alloy prostheses with a oxidized zirconium surface. U.S.
Patent No. 2,987,352 to Watson discloses a method of producing zirconium bearings with a
oxidized zirconium surface. The oxide coating produced, is not always uniform in thickness
and the non-uniformity reduces the integrity of the bonding between the zirconium alloy and
the oxide layer and the integrity of the bonding within the oxide layer. Both U.S. Patent
                                                  2

 2,987,352 and U.S. Patent 5,037,438 are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
 herein.
             {0008]       In U.S. Patent Nos. 6,447,550; 6,585,772 and pending U.S. application
 serial no. 10/942,464, Hunter, et al. describes methods for obtaining an oxidized zirconium
 coating of uniform thickness. Hunter teaches that such is obtained by applying pre-oxidation
treatment techniques and by manipulation of substrate microstructure.t The use of uniform
thickness oxide layer results in increased resistance to corrosion by the action of the body
fluids as well as other benefits and is biocompatible and stable over the lifetime of the
recipient.   U.S. Patent Nos. 6,447,550; 6,585,772 and pending U.S. application serial no.
 10/942,464 are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein.
             [0009]       The oxidized zirconium surfaces of Davidson and Hunter (henceforth
referred as Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition), while having relatively thick
ceramic oxide or nitride layers, did not exhibit thick diffusion hardened zones below the
ceramic oxide or nitride. The diffusion hardened zones of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium
compositions had thicknesses of at most 1.5 - 2 microns and typically less depending upon
the conditions used to produce the composition. FIG. 1 shows the nano-hardness profile of
Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition (FIG. 1 is taken from M. Long, L. Reister and
G. Hunter, Proc.    2 4 th Annual Meeting of the Society For Biomaterials, April 22-26, 1998,
San Diego, California, USA). The diffusion zone of the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium is
between 1.5 to 2 microns. The oxide is approximately 5 microns, hence the totality of the
hardened zone in the Davidson oxide is approximately 7 microns.             While the resulting
compositions of Davidson and Hunter exhibited high wear resistance in comparison to those
compositions available in the prior art, there is still room for improvement.
             [00101        The significant reduction in wear of polyethylene against oxidized
surfaces is attributed to the ceramic nature of the oxide. The oxidized zirconium implant
typically has a 5 to 6 micron thick ceramic surface (zirconium oxide) that is formed by a
thermally driven diffusion process in air. Beneath the zirconium oxide is a hard, oxygen-rich
diffusion layer of approximately 1.5 to 2 microns. The totality of hardened zones (oxide plus
diffusion hardened alloy) render the implant resistant to microscopic abrasion (for example,
from third bodies such as bone cement, bone chips, metal debris, etc.) and slightly less
resistant to macroscopic impact (surgical instrumentation and from dislocation/subluxation
contact with metallic acetabular shells).      The smaller hardening depth of these implants
                                                   3

 renders them less than optimal for hard-on-hard applications, In a hard-on-hard application
 such as in a hip joint, the material articulates against itself or another hardened or non
 hardened metal instead of polyethylene. The wear rates in such types of implants could be as
 high as 1 micron per year. With the totality of the hardened zone (oxide and diffusion zone)
 having a thickness of less than 7 microns, Davidson-type oxidized zirconium implants,
 although representing the state-of-the-art when originally introduced and still quite useful,
 have room for improvement in such applications. Hunter et al (U.S. Patent No. 6,726,725)
 teaches such hard-on-hard applications for Davidson-type oxidized zirconium components.
 Hunter '725 teaches that the oxide thickness can be increased up to 20 microns for such
 applications. But as will be shown herein, Davidson-type oxide compositions having such
 thicknesses, although highly wear-resistant, can have significant number of oxide layer
 defects. Such defects can lead to localized spalling of the oxide. Also, in the Davidson-type
 composition below the oxide, there is a relatively small diffusion hardened zone. Thus, while
the Davidson-type compositions exhibited superior wear resistance compared to many
 conventional materials, there is always room for improvement.
              [0011]  Currently, there are two primary types of hard-on-hard hip implants that
are available commercially, namely metal-on-metal and ceramic-on-ceramic.            The current
 standard material of metal-on-metal implants is high carbon Co-Cr alloy, The major concern
with the metal-on-metal implant is the metal ion release from the joint and its unknown effects
on the physiology of the human body. The advantage of metal-on-metal implants is that they
can be used in larger sizes. The larger size of the implant allows greater range of motion. The
metal-on-metal implants have also been shown to be useful for resurfacing type of application
where conservation of bone is desired. In such larger joints, the conventional or cross-linked
polyethylene is not preferred and metal-on-metal may be the only choice available. The larger
size requires polyethylene liner to be thinner, A thinner liner may not be mechanically strong,
may creep more or may lead to increased wear and osteolysis and eventually failure of the
implant.
             10012]   The other commonly used hard-on-hard implant material is ceramic-on
ceramic. The current standard material of ceramic-on-ceramic implants is alumina. Metal ion
release is typically not a concern for these implants. But due to limited toughness and the
brittle nature of ceramics, it is difficult to make these implants in larger sizes. The ceramic
                                                  4

 components have finite probability of fracture thus leading to a potential joint failure and
 complications associated with the fracture of a joint.
              [0013]    It has been an object of much of the prior art to reduce the metal ion
 release and minimize the fracture risk by combining metal and ceramic components. Fisher et
 al (U.S. Patent Application 2005/0033442) and Khandkar et al. (U.S. Patent No. 6,881,229)
 teach using a metal-on-ceramic articulation. Fisher et al teach that the difference in hardness
 between the metallic component and the ceramic component to be at least 4000 MPa.
Khandkar et. al. specifically teach use of silicon nitride ceramic components for articulating
 against the metallic component. In both instances the objective is to lower the wear of mating
 couples. But in both instances, the fracture risk of ceramic is still significant. The object of
the present invention is to eliminate the risk of fracture along with metal ion release. It is
eliminated by using a metallic component with ceramic surface and diffusion hardened zone
below the ceramic surface. As mentioned in the details of the invention, diffusion hardened
composition of present invention provides a solution to the above described problems
pertaining to hard-on-hard bearings made from Davidson-type oxidized zirconium, high
carbon CoCr (cobalt-chromium) and alumina.           In one aspect of invention, the invented
composition is applicable in knee joints and in spinal joints where hard-on-hard articulation is
desired.
             [0014]     Unlike the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium, the oxidized zirconium
composition disclosed herein is significantly less susceptible to damage caused by dislocation
and subluxation.     Thus, while the application of diffusion-hardened oxide layers such as
Davidson-type oxidized zirconium to orthopedic implants represented a great improvement in
the art of implant materials, resulting in substantial improvements in abrasion resistance and
service life, the new compositions of the present invention represent improvements over the
Davidson-type compositions.
             [0015]    Production of a diffusion hardened zone in zirconium (and its alloys) and
titanium (and its alloys) has been disclosed previously. One of the approach suggested by
Kemp (U.S. Patent No. 5,399,207) is to oxidize a zirconium alloy in a temperature range of
426 0C (8004F) to 871 "C (1600 0F) for two hours or more. The approach of Kemp is to run the
process longer so that oxygen diffuses farther into the substrate while the oxidation is taking
place. The major disadvantage of this approach is higher temperature and prolonged time is
required to form a thicker diffusion zone. The higher temperature and prolonged time can
                                                  5

lead to microstructural changes in the substrate and to a defective oxide that comprises
substantial amounts of cracks and pores. Kemp teaches the application of its method on a
Zircadyne 702 substrate. Following the teachings of Kemp, Zircadyne 702 and medical grade
Zr-2.5Nb (ASTM F2384) were oxidized at 800"C. The oxide thickness of Zircadyne-702
samples was 10 to 12 micron whereas that of Zr-2.5Nb was approximately 20 microns (FIGS.
2(a) and 2(b)). The diffUsion hardened zone on both samples was approximately 25 microns
(FIG. 2(c)). The oxide of both samples showed substantial defects in the fbrm of cracks and
pores.
            [0016]      In another approach, Davidson (U.S. Patent No. 5,372,660) teaches
oxidizing Ti alloy that contains Zr. The presence of Zr in Ti leads to formation of an oxide
and a thicker diffusion zone. Following the teachings of Davidson an alloy of Ti-Zr-Nb (55%
Ti w/w, 35% Zr w/w and 10% Nb w/w) and medical grade Zr-2.5 Nb were oxidized in air.
The alloy samples were oxidized at 635 "C for 6 hours. FIG. 3 shows metallographic images
showing the oxide and diffusion hardened zone. The oxide of both Ti-Zr-Nb and Zr-2.5Nb is
cracked. The oxide of Ti-Zr-Nb appears to separate from the substrate at several locations,
FIG. 3 (c) shows micro-hardness of diffusion hardened zone. The Ti-Zr-Nb alloy shows
approximately 10 to 15 micron thick diffusion hardened zone. The diffusion hardened zone of
Zr-2.5Nb is less than 5 microns. Thus following the teachings of Kemp and Davidson, a
significant depth of hardening could be obtained but at the cost of substantial defects in the
resulting oxide.    Kemp teaches a prolonged treatment at elevated temperatures, whereas
Davidson teaches changing the chemistry of the alloy to form a thicker diffusion hardened
zone. But in both cases the oxide formed is full of defects. Such type of defects in the oxide
can compromise integrity of the oxide and may lead to localized spalling.           One of the
compositions disclosed herein comprises a thick diffusion zone along with a substantially
defect-free oxide. The oxide disclosed herein has additional distinctions over the prior art that
will be disclosed further in the details herein. The Davidson-type and Kemp-type oxidized
zirconium product is an oxide that is predominantly single phase. The oxide of the present
invention comprises a secondary phase that is ceramic or oxygen-rich metal. Embodiments of
the diffusion hardened zone of the present invention have a layered structure and a preferred
hardness profile.
             [0017]     Another approach to produce a diffusion hardened metallic zone is
basically one of forming an oxide on the surface of the article by treatment in an oxygen-rich
                                                 6

  environment, followed by heat treating the article in an oxygen-deficient environment. One of
 the approaches provided by Takamura (Trans JIM, vol. 3, 1962, p. 10) has been to oxidize a
 titanium sample followed by treating it in argon gas (i.e., an oxygen deficient environment
 with a low partial pressure of oxygen),      This apparently allows oxygen to diffuse in the
 substrate and form a thick diffusion zone. Presence of oxygen in the diffusion zone leads to
 hardening. Another approach suggested by Dong et al (U.S. Patent No. 6,833,197) is to use
 vacuum or an inert gas mixture to achieve an oxygen-deficient environment, thereby
 achieving the diffusion-hardening after oxidation.      The preferred temperature specified by
 both Takamura and Dong et al for oxidation is 850 "C and that for diffusion hardening
 (vacuum treatment) is 850 "C. Dong et al suggest this methodology for titanium and
 zirconium and titanium/zirconium alloys.         One of the problems with these methods,
 particularly for zirconium alloys, is that the oxidation and diffusion hardening temperatures
 are significantly high and can lead to thick and cracked (defective) oxide as well as cracks in
 the substrates after diffusion hardening. Dong demonstrates its method using titanium alloys;
no examples for zirconium/niobium-based or titaniun/zirconium/niobium-based alloys have
 been shown.
              [0018]    Both Takamura and Dong et. al. recommend a preferred temperature of
 oxidation and inert gas/vacuum treatment of 850 "C. Following their teachings, samples of
Ti-6AI-4V and medical grade Zr-2.5Nb were oxidized at 850 *C for 0.3 hr in air. FIGS. 4(a)
and 4(b) show metallographic images after oxidation. The oxide on the Ti-6A-4V is less than
 1 micron thick. The oxide does not seem to adhere well to the substrate. The oxide on Zr
2.5Nb is approximately 12 microns thick and it is cracked. Following the teachings of Dong,
both samples were subjected to vacuum treatment under pressure of 104 torr and at 850 *C for
22 hours. FIGS. 4(c) and 4(d) show metallographic images after vacuum treatment. In both
samples, oxide has dissolved into the substrate.      There are no visible cracks in Ti-6A1-4V
sample. The crack is still present on the surface of the Zr-2.5Nb sample. The crack appears
to have propagated inside the substrate during the vacuum treatment. These types of cracks
on the surface can significantly reduce fatigue strength of the alloy. The new composition and
method of the present invention overcomes these deficiencies.
              [0019]   In order to further demonstrate the difference in the behavior between Ti
and Zr alloys, samples of Ti-6A-4V and Zr-2.5Nb were oxidized at a lower temperature (600
"C for 75 minutes). These samples were then treated under vacuum (< 104 torr) at 685 *Cfor
                                                  7

 10 hours. As will be disclosed further herein, the treatment was carried out in such a way that
oxide is partially retained on the Zr-2.5Nb substrate.           FIGS. 5 (a) and 5(b) show
metallographic images of the oxide formed on Ti-6Al-4V and Zr-2.5Nb samples. The oxide
on Ti-6A1-4V is less than 0.1 micron whereas it is approximately 3 micron on Zr sample. No
cracks are visible on both samples. After vacuum diffusion hardening, oxide on a Ti-6A1-4V
sample is completely dissolved whereas approximately 1 micron oxide is retained on a Zr
2.5Nb sample (FIGS. 5 (c) and 5 (d)). FIG. 5 (e) shows the hardness profile of the diffusion
zone.   Oxygen diffused almost entirely through the Ti alloy sample and thus produced a
negligibly small depth of hardening whereas it did produce a significant depth of hardening in
Zr alloy. This example further illustrates the differences in Zr and Ti alloys in the Dong
process. It is evident from these examples that the range of temperatures that may work for Zr
alloys may not be optimal for Ti alloys and vice versa. Dong also teaches a sigmoid shaped
hardness profile of the diffusion hardened metallic zone.        The sigmoid shaped diffusion
hardened zone profile requires almost complete dissolution of the oxide in the substrate. The
inventors of the present invention have found that this is not necessary. The inventors have
found that in one aspect of this invention, it is advantageous to retain the oxide on the surface
during this process. This is accomplished by careful selection of temperature and time for
oxidation and subsequent diffusion hardening. Dong does not teach or suggest retention of
the oxide on the surface of the sample at the end of the vacuum treatment and obtaining
different types of oxygen concentration or hardness profiles other than a sigmoid profile when
the oxide is almost completely dissolved.
             [0020J     In another approach of the prior art, Treco (R. Treco, J. Electrochem.
Soc., Vol. 109, p. 208, 1962) used vacuum annealing method to completely dissolve the oxide
formed on Zircalloy-2 after corrosion testing. The objective of Treco's work was to eliminate
the oxide by vacuum annealing and the resultant diffusion zone by acid pickling. Treco
neither discloses advantage of retaining the oxide during diffusion process nor discloses an
application where such surfaces could be used. Finally, both Dong and Treco do not disclose
use of such a technique to form a ceramic oxide and diffusion hardened zone to make a
damage resistant medical implant.
             [0021J      The inventors have found that the damage (i.e., wear) resistance of
diffusion hardened medical implant compositions can be improved by increasing the thickness
of totality of the hardened zones.        The resulting diffusion hardened medical implant
                                                   8

 compositions are new and not disclosed or suggested in the prior art. The desired totality of
 hardened zones can be achieved by varying the thicknesses of the ceramic oxide (or nitride, or
 mixed oxide/nitride) and the underlying diffusion hardened zone(s). Additionally, an increase
 in the thickness of the diffusion hardened zone imparts additional wear resistance desired in
hard-on-hard articulation. A thicker diffusion hardened zone exhibits a layered structure in
which the concentration of the diffusion hardening species varies with depth.              Careful
consideration needs to be applied in selecting the temperature and time of oxidation and
diffusion hardening to achieve the desired totality of the hardened zones, while retaining (or
enhancing) most of the mechanical, and electrochemical properties of the articles.
Furthermore, the proper conditions for the processes of manufacture of such compositions are
related to the alloy system under consideration.          Such hardened alloys are suitable for
articulation against soft polymers (such as ultra high molecular weight polyethylene
(UHMWPE), cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE), polyurethane, etc and in hard-on-hard
bearing applications against like hardened alloys, against CoCr alloys, ceramics (alumina,
silicon nitride, silicon carbide, zirconia, etc), other hard materials such as diamond, diamond
like carbon and ceramic coatings (metal-oxides, metal-nitrides, metal-carbides and diamond),
etc.
             [00221      All of the above-referenced U.S. patents and published U.S. patent
applications are incorporated by reference as though fully described herein.
                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             [0023]       In one aspect of the present invention there is a medical implant
comprising: a substrate comprising zirconium or zirconium alloy; a diffusion hardened zone
in contact with said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone comprising zirconium or
zirconium alloy and a diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having a
thickness of greater than 2 microns; and, a substantially defect-free ceramic layer in contact
with said diffusion hardened zone and comprising a surface of said medical implant, said
ceramic layer ranging in thickness from 0.1 to 25 microns; and, wherein the total thickness of
the ceramic layer and the diffusion hardened zone is 5 microns or greater.               In some
embodiments, the ceramic layer comprises a secondary phase, and the diffusion hardened
zone has a layered structure comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic
analysis, the layered structure characterized by: a first layer directly below the ceramic layer,
wherein the first layer is predominantly alpha phase zirconium; an interface between the first
                                                    9

layer and the ceramic layer; and; a second layer directly below the first layer. In some
embodiments, the substrate further comprises titanium, tantalum, hafnium, niobium, and any
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardening species is selected from
the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, boron, carbon, and any combination thereof.
Preferably, the diffusion hardening species comprises oxygen. In some embodiments, the
diffusion hardened zone has a concentration of oxygen which decreases in the direction of the
substrate, said decrease of oxygen concentration being defined by a function selected from the
group consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution
function, and any sequential combination thereof. In some embodiments, the ceramic oxide
has monoclinic content of greater than 93%. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardened
zone has a hardness profile which is defined by a function selected from the group consisting
of an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution function, and any
sequential combination thereof. In some embodiments, thed first layer has a thickness which
is greater than or equal to the thickness of said second layer and of any subsequent layers if
present.   In some embodiments, thediffusion hardened zone has a thickness of 5 to 70
microns.    The diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 10 to 50 microns.         The
diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 15 to 30 microns. In some embodiments, the
hardness of the diffusion hardened zone is at least 10% greater than that of the substrate In
some embodiments, the medical implant is selected from the group consisting of a hip
implant, a knee implant, and a spinal implant. In some embodiments, the substrate comprises
an alloy of zirconium and niobium and has a niobium content of at least 1% (w/w).         The
substrate may comprise an alloy of zirconium and niobium has a niobium content of at least
10% (w/w).      In some embodiments, the medical implant further comprises an oxygen
containing zirconium alloy overlaying said ceramic oxide or nitride on the surface of said
implant, said alloy being in the metallic state.
             [0024]    In another aspect of the present invention there is a medical implant
comprising: a substrate comprising zirconium or zirconium alloy; a diffusion hardened zone
in contact with said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone comprising zirconium or
zirconium alloy and a diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having a
thickness of greater than 5 microns; and, wherein the diffusion hardened zone has a layered
structure comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic analysis, said layered
structure characterized by: a first layer on a surface of the implant; a second layer directly
below said first layer, wherein said first layer is predominantly alpha phase zirconium; and,
                                                 10

  said layered structure having a concentration of diffusion hardening species which decreases
  in the direction of the substrate, said decrease of concentration of diffusion hardening species
 being defined by a function selected from the group consisting of an error function, an
  exponential function, a near uniform distribution function, and any sequential combination
 thereof. In some embodiments, the substrate further comprises titanium, tantalum, hafnium,
 niobium, and any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardening species
 is selected from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, boron, carbon, and any combination
 thereof.     Preferably, the diffusion hardening species comprises oxygen.              In some
 embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has a concentration of oxygen which decreases in
 the direction of the substrate, said decrease of oxygen concentration being defined by a
 function selected from the group consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a
 near uniform distribution function, and any sequential combination thereof.             In some
 embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has a hardness profile which is defined by a
 function selected from the group consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a
 near uniform distribution function any sequential combination thereof. In some embodiments,
 the first layer has a thickness which is greater than the thickness of said second layer and of
 any subsequent layers if present. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has a
thickness of 5 to 70 microns. The diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 10 to 50
microns. The diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 15 to 30 microns. In some
embodiments, the hardness of the diffusion hardened zone is at least 10% greater than that of
the substrate,     In some embodiments, the medical implant is selected from the group
consisting of a hip implant, a knee implant, and a spinal implant. In some embodiments, the
substrate comprises an alloy of zirconium and niobium has a niobium content of at least 1%
(w/w). The substrate may comprise an alloy of zirconium, titanium and niobium and has a
niobium content of at least 10% (w/w).
              [0025]    In another aspect of the present invention there is a method of making a
surface hardened medical implant comprising the steps of: forming said medical implant of
zirconium or zirconium alloy; and, further treating said implant by any one of (a), (b), or (c),
wherein (a), (b), and (c) are defined as follows: (a) treating said implant in the presence of
ceramic-forming species at a temperature of less than 700 "C for greater than 5 minutes; and,
thereafter treating said implant under vacuum or inert gas at a temperature of from 500 "C to
1000 "C fbr greater than 1 hour; (b) treating said implant in the presence of ceramic-forming
species at a temperature of from 500 "C to 1000 "C; and, thereafter treating said implant under
                                                   11

 vacuum or inert gas at a temperature less than 700 *C; (c) treating said implant in the presence
 of ceramic-forming species at a temperature of less than 700 *C; and, thereafter treating said
 implant under vacuum or inert gas at a temperature less than 700 *C. In some embodiments,
 the method further comprises the step of treating said implant in the presence of a ceramic
 forming species at a temperature less than 700 "C for greater than 5 minutes after said step of
 thereafter treating said implant under vacuum or inert gas. In some embodiments, the step of
 thereafter treating said implant under vacuum or inert gas is performed at a temperature of 600
 *C to 700 *C. In some embodiments, the step of treating said implant in the presence of
 ceramic-fbrming species is performed for between 5 minutes to 12 hours.                In some
 embodiments, the step of thereafter treating said implant under vacuum or inert gas is
performed for between 15 minutes to 30 hours. In some embodiments, the step of forming a
medical implant of zirconium or zirconium alloy comprises forming said medical implant of
 zirconium alloy having an alloying element selected from the group consisting of titanium,
tantalum, hafnium, niobium, and any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the step of
forming comprises forming said medical implant of an alloy of zirconium and niobium, said
alloy having a niobium content of at least 1% (w/w).         In some embodiments, the step of
forming comprises forming said medical implant of an alloy of zirconium and niobium, said
alloy having a niobium content of at least 10% (w/w). In some embodiments, the step of
treating said implant in the presence of ceramic-forming species and said step of thereafter
treating said implant under vacuum or inert gas comprise treating said implant with a
diffusion hardening species selected from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, boron,
carbon, and any combination thereof.
              [00261    In another aspect of the present invention there is a method of making
surface hardened medical implant comprising steps of: fbrming said medical implant of
zirconium or zirconium alloy; forming an oxide, carbide, nitride, boride or combination
thereof, on a surface of said implant at a temperature of from 500    00  to 1000 "C for greater
than 2 hours; removing the formed oxide, carbide, nitride, boride, or combination thereof;
and, thereafter re-forming an oxide, carbide, nitride, boride, or combination thereof, on a
surface of said implant at a temperature of from 500 "C to 1000 *Cfor greater than 5 minutes.
              [00271    In another aspect of the present invention there is a method of making
surface hardened medical implant comprising steps of: forming said medical implant of
zirconium or zirconium alloy; diffusing oxygen or nitrogen into said implant at a partial
                                                 12

 pressure of oxygen or nitrogen of less than 0.05 bar and at a temperature ranging from 500 *C
to 1000 "C for greater than 2 hours; and, thereafter oxidizing or nitriding the implant between
 500 *C to 1000 *C for greater than 10 minutes.
             10028]   In another aspect of the present invention there is a method of making a
 surface hardened medical implant comprising the steps of: forming said medical implant of
zirconium or zirconium alloy; oxidizing or nitriding said implant at a temperature of from 500
"C to 700 C to form at least a 2 micron thick oxide or nitride; and, thereafter treating said
implant under vacuum or inert gas at a temperature less than 700 "C to retain at least 0.1
microns oxide, to form at least 0.005 microns metallic hardened layer, and to form a diffusion
zone having a thickness of at least 2 microns. In some embodiments, the substrate further
comprises titanium, tantalum, niobium, hafnium, and any combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the oxide or nitride thickness before said step of thereafter treating said implant
under vacuum or inert gas is from 2 to 15 microns. In some embodiments, the oxide or nitride
thickness after said step of thereafter treating said implant under vacuum or inert gas is from
0.1 to 10 microns.     In some embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone is from 2 to 50
microns.
             [0029]     In another aspect of the present invention there is a medical implant
produced by the process comprising the steps of: forming said medical implant of zirconium
or zirconium alloy; further treating said implant by any one of (a), (b), or (c), wherein (a), (b),
and (c) are defined as follows: (a) treating said implant in the presence of ceramic-forming
species at a temperature of less than 700 "C for greater than 5 minutes; and, thereafter treating
said implant under vacuum or inert gas at a temperature of from 500 "C to 1000 C for greater
than 1 hour; (b) treating said implant in the presence of ceramic-forming species at a
temperature of from 500 "C to 1000 "C; and, thereafter treating said implant under vacuum or
inert gas at a temperature less than 700 "C; (c) treating said implant in the presence of
ceramic-forming species at a temperature of less than 700 "C; and, thereafter treating said
implant under vacuum or inert gas at a temperature less than 700 "C.
             [0030]    In another aspect of the present invention there is a medical implant,
comprising: (a) a first implant portion comprising zirconium or zirconium alloy, said first
implant portion having a bearing surface; (b) a second implant portion comprising zirconium
or zirconium alloy, said second implant portion having bearing surface; (c) wherein the
bearing surface of said first implant portion and the bearing surface of said second implant
                                                  13

portion each have a size and shape to engage or cooperate with one another; (d) a diffusion
hardened zone in contact with at least a portion of said zirconium or zirconium alloy, said
diffusion hardened zone forming at least a part of the bearing surface of both of said first and
second implant portions, said diffusion hardened zone comprising zirconium or zirconium
alloy and a diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having a thickness of
greater than 2 microns; and, (e) a substantially defect-free ceramic layer in contact with said
diffusion hardened zone and comprising a surface of said medical implant, said ceramic layer
ranging in thickness from 0.1 to 25 microns; wherein the total thickness of the ceramic layer
and the diffusion hardened zone is 5 microns or greater. In some embodiments, the ceramic
layer comprises a secondary phase; and, the diffusion hardened zone has a layered structure
comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic analysis, the layered structure
characterized by: a first layer directly below the ceramic layer, wherein the first layer is
predominantly alpha phase zirconium; an interface between the first layer and the ceramic
layer; and; a second layer directly below the first layer. In some embodiments, the substrate
further comprises titanium, tantalum, hafhium, niobium, and any combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the diffusion hardening species is selected from the group consisting of
oxygen, nitrogen, boron, carbon, and any combination thereof. Preferably, the diffusion
hardening species comprises oxygen. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has
a concentration of oxygen which decreases in the direction of the substrate, said decrease of
oxygen concentration being defined by a function selected from the group consisting of an
error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution function, and any
sequential combination thereof. In some embodiments, the ceramic oxide has monoclinic
content of greater than 93%. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has a
hardness profile which is defined by a function selected from the group consisting of an error
function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution function and any sequential
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the first layer has a thickness which is greater
than or equal to the thickness of said second layer and of any subsequent layers if present. In
some embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has a thickness of 5 to 70 microns. Tthe
diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 10 to 50 microns. The diffusion hardened
zone may have a thickness of 15 to 30 microns. In some embodiments, the hardness of the
diffusion hardened zone is at least 10% greater than that of the substrate.           In some
embodiments, the medical implant is selected from the group consisting of a hip implant, a
knee implant, and a spinal implant. In some embodiments, the substrate comprises an alloy of
                                                 14

zirconium and niobium and has a niobium content of at least 1% (w/w).                   In some
embodiments, the substrate comprises an alloy of zirconium and niobium has a niobium
content of at least 10% (w/w). In some embodiments, the medical implant further comprises
an oxygen-containing zirconium alloy overlaying said ceramic oxide or nitride on the surface
of said implant, said alloy being in the metallic state.
              [00311    In another aspect of the present invention, there is medical implant
comprising: (a) a first implant portion comprising zirconium or zirconium alloy, said first
implant portion having a bearing surface; (b) a second implant portion comprising zirconium
or zirconium alloy, said second implant portion having bearing surface; (c) wherein the
bearing surface of said first implant portion and the bearing surface of said second implant
portion each have a size and shape to engage or cooperate with one another; (d) a diffusion
hardened zone in contact with at least a portion of said zirconium or zirconium alloy, said
diffusion hardened zone fonning at least a part of the bearing surface of both of said first and
second implant portions, said diffusion hardened zone comprising zirconium or zirconium
alloy and a diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having a thickness of
greater than 5 microns; wherein the diffusion hardened zone has a layered structure
comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic analysis, said layered structure
characterized by: a first layer on a surface of the implant; a second layer directly below said
first layer, wherein said first layer is predominantly alpha phase zirconium; and, said diffusion
hardened zone having a concentration of diffusion hardening species which decreases in the
direction of the substrate, said decrease of concentration of diffusion hardening species being
defined by a function selected from the group consisting of an error function, an exponential
function, a near uniform distribution function, and any sequential combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the substrate further comprises titanium, tantalum, hafnium, niobium, and
any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the diffusion hardening species is selected
from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, boron, carbon, and any combination thereof.
Preferably, the diffusion hardening species comprises oxygen. In some embodiments, the
diffusion hardened zone has a concentration of oxygen which decreases in the direction of the
substrate, said decrease of oxygen concentration being defined by a function selected from the
group consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution
function, and any sequential combination thereof.         In some embodiments, the diffusion
hardened zone has a hardness profile which is defined by a function selected from the group
consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution function
                                                  15

  and any sequential combination thereof. In some embodiments, the first layer has a thickness
  which is greater than the thickness of said second layer and of any subsequent layers if
  present.   In some embodiments, the diffusion hardened zone has a thickness of 5 to 70
  microns. The diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 10 to 50 microns. The
  diffusion hardened zone may have a thickness of 15 to 30 microns In some embodiments, the
 hardness of the diffusion hardened zone is at least 10% greater than that of the substrate. In
  some embodiments, the medical implant is selected from the group consisting of a hip
 implant, a knee implant, and a spinal implant. In some embodiments, the substrate comprises
 an alloy of zirconium and niobium has a niobium content of at least 1% (w/w). In some
 embodiments, the substrate comprises an alloy of zirconium, titanium and niobium and has a
 niobium content of at least 10% (w/w).
              [0032]     In another aspect of the present invention, there is a medical implant
 comprising: (a) a first implant portion, said first implant portion having a bearing surface; (b)
 a second implant portion, said second implant portion having a bearing surface; (c) wherein
 the bearing surface of said first implant portion and the bearing surface of said second implant
 portion each have a size and shape to engage or cooperate with one another; (d) wherein one
 or both of the two portions of the medical implant comprises a biocompatible alloy having an
 elastic modulus less than 200 GPa; and, (e) wherein the difference in radius of the mating
 portions is greater than about 50 microns. In some embodiments, one or both of said first
implant portion and said second implant portion further comprises: a substrate; a diffusion
hardened zone in contact with said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone comprising a
diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having a thickness of greater than 2
microns; and, a substantially defect-free ceramic layer in contact with said diffusion hardened
zone and comprising a surface of said medical implant, said ceramic layer ranging in
thickness from 0.1 to 25 microns; and, wherein the total thickness of the ceramic layer and the
diffusion hardened zone is 5 microns or greater. In some embodiments, one or both of said
first implant portion and said second implant portion further comprises: the ceramic layer
comprises a secondary phase; and, the diffusion hardened zone has a layered structure
comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic analysis, the layered structure
characterized by: a first layer directly below the ceramic layer; an interface between the first
layer and the ceramic layer; and; a second layer directly below the first layer. In some
embodiments, one or both of said first implant portion and said second implant portion further
comprises: a substrate; a diffusion hardened zone in contact with said substrate, said diffusion
                                                    16

 hardened zone comprising a diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having
 a thickness of greater than 5 microns; and, wherein the diffusion hardened zone has a layered
 structure comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic analysis, said layered
 structure characterized by: a first layer on a surface of the implant; a second layer directly
 below said first layer; and, said diffusion hardened zone having a concentration of diffusion
hardening species which decreases in the direction of the substrate, said decrease of
 concentration of diffusion hardening species being defined by a function selected from the
 group consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution
function, and any sequential combination thereof, In some embodiments, one or both of said
 first implant portion and said second implant portion further comprises: a substrate; a
 diffusion hardened zone in contact with said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone
 comprising a diffusion hardening species, said diffusion hardened zone having a thickness of
greater than 2 microns; and, a substantially defect-free ceramic layer in contact with said
diffusion hardened zone and comprising a surface of said medical implant, said ceramic layer
ranging in thickness from 0.1 to 25 microns; and, wherein the total thickness of the ceramic
layer and the diffusion hardened zone is 5 microns or greater. In some embodiments, one or
both of said first implant portion and said second implant portion further comprises: the
ceramic layer comprises a secondary phase; and, the diffusion hardened zone has a layered
structure comprising at least two distinct layers under metallographic analysis, the layered
structure characterized by: a first layer directly below the ceramic layer; an interface between
the first layer and the ceramic layer; and; a second layer directly below the first layer.
              [00331     The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical
advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that
follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be
described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed
may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out
the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the
art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention
as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic
of the invention, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further
objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when
considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood,
                                                    17

however, that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description
only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            [00341    For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is
now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing,
in which:
            [0035]    FIG. 1 shows the hardness profile of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium
composition. The thickness of the diffusion zone is 1.5 to 2 microns (Long et. al.)
            [0036]    FIG. 2 (a) and (b) are metallographic images of Zircadyne 702 and Zr
2.5Nb oxidized following the teachings of Kemp; (c) micro-hardness profile of the diffusion
hardened zone
            [0037]    FIG. 3 (a) and (b) are metallographic images of Ti-Zr-Nb and Zr-2.5Nb
oxidized by following teachings of Davidson; (c) Micro-hardness profile of diffusion
hardened zone.
            100381    FIG. 4 (a) and (b) show samples of Ti-6A1-4V and Zr-2.5Nb oxidized at
850 "C for 0.3 hours respectively; (c) and (d) show samples of Ti-6A1-4V and Zr-2.5Nb
diffusion hardened at 850 "C for 22 hours respectively.
            [00391    FIG. 5 (a) and (b) show samples of Ti-6A1-4V and Zr-2.5Nb oxidized at
600 "C for 75 minutes respectively; (c) and (d) show samples of Ti-6A1-4V and Zr-2.5Nb
diffusion hardened at 685 "C for 10 hours respectively, (e) shows the hardness profile of Ti
6A1-4V and Zr-2.5Nb after diffusion hardening.
            10040]     FIG. 6 shows hardness profiles obtained on Zr-2.5Nb samples after
vacuum diffusion process (685"C for 10 hours). The starting oxide represents oxide thickness
prior to vacuum diffusion treatment. The oxidation was carried out at 635*C for different
times to produce different starting oxide thickness.
            [00411     FIG. 7 shows metallographic images of samples with hardness profile
obtained in FIG. 3 were re-oxidized at 635 "C for 60 minutes.
                                                  18

              [00421   FIG. 8 illustrates Rockwell indents showing the damage resistance of (a)
 and (b) Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition and (c) and (d) composition disclosed
 in this invention with a total hardening depth of 20 to 25 microns.
              [00431    FIG. 9 shows wear results of pin-on-disk testing of high carbon cast
 CoCr against itself and one of the oxidized zirconium compositions against itself (total
hardened zone 20 to 25 microns) disclosed in this invention.
              [0044]    FIG. 10 shows the oxygen concentration profile of the diffusion zone.
Analyses were carried out using a scanning auger microprobe with accelerating voltage of 10
kV; probe current of 18 nA and electron beam at 30" from sample normal. Oxide was retained
on the sample after the vacuum treatment.
              [00451   FIG. 11 illustrates the micro-hardness profile of Davidson-type oxidized
zirconium composition and some of the compositions disclosed in this invention. Micro
hardness was carried out using a Knoop indenter at a load of 10 g.
              [0046]   FIG. 12 shows cross-sectional metallographic images; (a) Davidson-type
oxidized zirconium composition, (b) oxidized at 635 *C for 75 minutes and diffusion hardened
at 585 *C for 10 hours, (c) oxidized at 690 "C for 60 minutes and diffusion hardened at 685 "C
for 20 hours, and (d) oxidized at 635 *C for 75 minutes and diffusion hardened at 750 "C for
20 hours. The dotted lines on the images show the demarcation of layers.
              [0047]    FIG. 13 shows XRD pattern of (a) Davidson-type oxidized zirconium
and (b) one of the compositions of this invention. The M(-1 11) and M(1 11) are from -111
and 111 plane, T(1 11) is from tetragonal 111 plane. The T(1 11) peak for new composition is
negligible indicating smaller tetragonal phase in the oxide compared to the oxide of Davidson
type oxidized zirconium. The monoclinic phase analysis was carried using ASTM F 1873.
             [0048]        FIG. 14 (a) and (b) show a Davidson-type oxidized zirconium
composition; (c) and (d) show one of the compositions of this invention. The sample shown in
(c) and (d) was oxidized at 690 oC for 60 minutes and diffusion hardened at 685 *C for 20
hours. The oxide was retained on the surface. This is a longitudinal cross-section of the
sample. The orientation of secondary phase is different in transverse section. A dotted line is
drawn to show how far the secondary phase is present in the oxide. The samples are imaged
using back scattered electron mode with accelerating voltage of 20 kV.
                                                    19

             [0049]     FIG. 15 illustrates (a) an oxide of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium
 composition, and (b) an oxide of the present invention. The bright white areas in image (b) are
 secondary phase.
             [0050]     FIG 16 shows the ratio of atomic concentration of oxygen to atomic
 concentration of zirconium of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition and that
disclosed in this invention.       The depth profile analysis was carried out using x-ray
photoelectron spectroscope (Al ka, take off ahgle 450) and an ion gun for sputtering (Ar+, 3
keV, silica sputter rate of 48 angstroms/minute).
             [0051]    FIG. 17 illustrates an error function fit to the micro-hardness indents in
the diffusion hardened zone to estimate the depth of hardening. The diffusivity values are in
cm 2/s and are approximate. Time is in seconds and distance is in microns,
             [0052]     FIG. 18 illustrates the microstructure of (a) as received Zr-2.5Nb bar
stock, (b) oxidized at 635 *C for 75 minutes and diffusion hardened at 585 *C for 10 hours, (c)
oxidized at 690 "C for 60 minutes and diffusion hardened at 685 *C for 20 hours, and (d)
oxidized at 635 *C for 75 minutes and diffusion hardened at 750 *C for 20 hours, and (e)
oxidized at 850 *C for 20 minutes and diffusion hardened at 850 *C for 22 hours. The samples
were polished using standard metallographic techniques and were heat tinted to reveal the
grain size.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             [0053]     As used herein, "a" or "an" means one or more. Unless otherwise
indicated, the singular contains the plural and the plural contains the singular.
             [0054]   As used herein, "zirconium alloy" is defined broadly, and includes alloys
having at least 5 % (w/w) zirconium. The alloys can be of zirconium, titanium, hafnium and
niobium. The alloys can be polycrystalline or amorphous or single crystals or combinations
of same.
             [0055]    As used herein, "ceramic" is defined as a chemical compound of a metal
(or a metal constituent in an alloy) and one or more non-metals, including carbon, oxygen,
nitrogen, boron, and combinations thereof. While the preferred embodiment of the ceramic of
the present invention is an oxide, the ceramic of the present invention includes oxides,
                                                   20

 carbides, nitrides, borides, and any combination thereof As used herein, "ceramic layer" is
 defined as a stratum of material consisting of ceramic which forms a part of a greater material.
 As used herein, the term "ceramic coating" refers to a surface transformed layer, surface film,
 surface oxide, nitride, carbide, boride (or combination thereof) present on the alloy or metal
 substrate.
             [0056]    As used herein, "ceramic-forming species" is defined as oxygen, carbon,
 nitrogen, boron, and any combination thereof. It is preferable that the ceramic-forming
 species be in the gas phase during the formation of the ceramic layer, although it is possible
and within the scope of the present invention wherein the ceramic-forming species is present
 in a phase other than the gas phase.         One non-limiting example of a non-gas phase
embodiment is wherein the ceramic-forming species is in the solid phase in contact with the
substrate to which it is to be introduced. The ceramic-forming species, in addition to forming
a ceramic, also acts as a diffusion hardening species in the formation of a diffusion zone.
             [00571    The "diffusion zone" is defined as the zone below the ceramic surface (if
a ceramic surface is present) or at the surface itself (if a ceramic surface is not present) and
that comprises a diffusion hardening species. "Diffusion hardening species" is defined as
carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, boron, or any combination thereof. The "diffusion hardened zone"
is defined as that portion of the diffusion zone having hardness at least 1.1 times greater than
the substrate hardness.
             [0058]        As used herein, "biocompatible alloy" is defined as the alloy
combinations that are currently used in orthopedic industry. Examples of such alloys include
cobalt-chromium-molybdenum,           titanium-aluminum-vanadium,        nickel-titanium     and
zirconium-niobium. The other biocompatible alloys that are referred in this invention are the
alloys that are made from either zirconium or titanium or tantalum or niobium or hafnium or
combination thereof
             [00591    As used herein, the term "vacuum" refers to a pressure of less than about
10.2 torr.
             100601      Implants comprising Davidson-type oxidized zirconium have been
shown to reduce polyethylene wear significantly.         This significant reduction in wear is
attributed to its ceramic surface. The oxidized zirconium implant typically has 4 to 5 micron
                                                21

 thick ceramic surface (zirconium oxide) that is formed by a thermally driven diffusion process
 in air. Beneath the zirconium oxide is a hard, oxygen-rich diffusion layer of approximately
 1.5 to 2 microns. The totality of hardened zones (oxide plus diffusion hardened alloy) render
 the implant resistant to microscopic abrasion (third bodies such as bone cement bone chips,
 metal debris, etc.) and slightly less resistant to macroscopic impact (surgical instrumentation
 and from dislocation/subluxation contact with metallic acetabular shells). However, like all
 conventional medical implant materials, Davidson-type oxidized zirconium implants are
 susceptible to damage caused by dislocation and subluxation (macroscopic). Although not
 intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that this susceptibility is due to the relatively
 small thickness of the total hardened zones (5 micron oxide plus 1.5 to 2 micron diffusion
zone) in the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium products. Although Davidson-type oxidized
zirconium implants perform better than most materials in hard-on-soft applications, the small
hardened zone is not ideal for hard-on-hard bearing applications. The abrasion resistance of
oxidized zirconium and other common implant alloys can be improved by increasing the
 depth of totality of the hardened zones. Such hardened alloys are suitable for articulation
against soft polymers (such as UHMWPE, XLPE, polyurethane, etc) and in hard-on-hard
bearing applications against like hardened alloys, against CoCr alloys, ceramics (alumina,
silicon nitride, silicon carbide, zirconia, etc), and other hard materials such as diamond,
diamond-like carbon, etc.
             [0061]    FIG. 6 shows four types of hardness profiles obtained on Zr-2.5Nb alloy
samples using an embodiment of the method of the present invention. The four profiles
obtained are Profile 1: uniform function, Profile 2: a combination of uniform function and
exponential function, Profile 3: a combination of exponential function and error function,
Profile 4: error function. As will be discussed in detail, the resultant shape of the hardness
profile was carefully controlled by the oxide thickness, oxidation and vacuum treatment
temperatures and time. In this particular example, the starting oxide thickness was varied by
varying oxidation time at a constant temperature of 635 *C. Samples were oxidized for 5
minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes and 60 minutes respectively. All the samples were vacuum
treated at 685 *C for 10 hours. After vacuum treatment the four samples produced four
different profiles as shown in FIG. 6. The oxide was retained on sample with profile 4 and
was completely dissolved on samples with profiles 1 to 3. Each of these profiles can have a
distinct advantage over the other. For example, if the oxidation step needs to be repeated after
vacuum treatment to fbrm oxide, then Profiles I to 3 may produce a high integrity
                                                    22

predominantly defect-free oxide compared to Profile 4. FIG. 7 shows metallographic images
of the oxide formed on samples with different profiles. These samples were oxidized after the
vacuum treatment at 635 "C for I hour to produce 5 to 6 micron thick oxide. As can be seen,
 oxide on the Profile 4 is cracked and non-uniform compared to that formed in Profiles 1 to 3.
This is believed to be caused by lack of plasticity of the diffusion hardened zone that can not
accommodate stresses generated during re-oxidation.             This example illustrates another
embodiment of the invention that will be disclosed. If re-oxidation of the alloy samples is
desired after diffusion hardening process, it is important to obtain an adequate diffusion
profile (Profiles 1 to 3). The appropriate diffusion profile ensures a substantially defect-free
oxide formation after the vacuum treatment. The oxidation process is typically accompanied
by the volume expansion of the surface (oxide). If the stresses generated during volume
expansion are not accommodated in the substrate, it can lead to defects such as cracks and
pores in the oxide. An example of such defects in the oxide is shown in FIG. 7 (Profile 4).
Cracks and pores can compromise integrity of the oxide and may lead to spalling of the oxide.
Another type of defect that is anticipated in this disclosure is the uniformity of the oxide-metal
interface. FIG. 7 shows an example of wavy interface formed on samples of Profile 3. There
are few pores and cracks but there are areas where the oxide thickness is less than 50% of the
nominal oxide thickness. Such type of wavy interface may be unacceptable for a medical
implant since there is a potential compromise of the integrity of the oxide.
             [00621    In a medical implant application, it is desirable that the oxide (or other
ceramic layer) formed is substantially defect-free. When the oxide is formed on zirconium
alloy substrate, there is expansion of volume as oxygen atoms are added in the zirconium
matrix.    This volume expansion leads to significant amount of stresses that need to be
dissipated. If the substrate underneath is significantly brittle to start with, pores and cracks
may form in the oxide to dissipate the stresses. It may also lead to a wavy interface between
the oxide and metal. It sometimes may lead to spalling of the oxide as well. The defects in
the oxide can be broadly classified as pores and cracks.           The pores can be circular or
elongated and may be on the surface or at the interface. The cracks can be perpendicular to
the oxide metal interface, and/or may be parallel to the oxide metal interface. Another type of
defect that is anticipated in this disclosure is the wavy oxide metal interface and delaminated
or spalled oxide. One object of the present invention is to produce a substantially defect-free
ceramic layer with a thicker diffusion hardened zone. As mentioned previously, following the
prior art teachings of Kemp and Davidson, a thicker diffusion zone can be obtained but it
                                                  23

 produces an oxide that is not substantially defect-free. For example, FIG 2(a) shows that the
 oxide is separated from the oxide metal interface. FIG 2(b) shows a crack perpendicular to
 the oxide metal interface. FIG 7 (profile 4) shows oxide with several elongated pores, and
 cracks that are parallel to the interface. FIG 7 (profile 3) shows an example of another type of
 defect where the oxide metal interface is wavy. It is the object of this invention to form a
 ceramic layer that is substantially free of such defects. The defects in the ceramic layer are
 evaluated on a cross-sectional metallographic sample at 1000X magnification with field of
view of approximately 100 x 80 microns. The substantially defect-free ceramic layer of the
present invention is characterized by a) average pore diameter smaller than 15% of ceramic
 layer thickness, b) average crack length parallel to the ceramic layer/metal interface to be less
than 25% of ceramic layer thickness, (c) average opening width of crack perpendicular to the
 ceramic layer/metal interface to be less than 15% of ceramic layer thickness and (d) the
difference between average and minimum ceramic layer thickness to be less than 50% of the
nominal oxide thickness. It is possible that the all defects described above may appear in one
field of view or only few of them in one view and all remaining in another view. The defect
free ceramic layer of the present invention is defined as that in which above mentioned defects
are not seen in at least 3 out of 5 fields of randomly chosen views. The ceramic layer which is
substantially free of such defects is termed as defect-free.
             [00631       In the present invention, there is medical implant and a method of
producing the medical implant; the medical implant having a defect-free ceramic layer
comprising a secondary phase along with diffusion hardened zone underneath the ceramic
layer.    This is accomplished by careful control of the ceramic formation and diffusion
hardening temperatures. In one aspect of this invention, this leads to a preferred profile of the
hardened zone beneath the ceramic layer. In another aspect of the invention, the ceramic layer
is preferentially retained on the surface and is comprised of a secondary phase. In another
aspect of invention, an adequate hardness profile is obtained if re-formation of the ceramic
layer is required after diffusion hardening. In another aspect of the present invention, the
diffusion zone is comprised of a layered structure. In another aspect of the present invention,
a hardened metallic film is formed on the surface of the ceramic layer.
             [0064]    The effect of the hardened zone on damage tolerance was evaluated by a
Rockwell indent and by carrying out a wear test. FIG. 8 shows back scattered electron images
of the indents on Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition and that disclosed in this
                                                    24

invention. The damage was produced on a flat disk by indenting the surface with a Rockwell
indenter (diamond) with a load of 150 lbf. FIGS. 8 (a) and 8 (b) show damage produced on
the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition. It should be noted that applied stress is
much greater than that expected in the body. The indent has caused the oxide to crack in
circumferential and in radial direction. The bright area in the center is exposed Zr-2.5Nb
substrate. The grayish area is oxide. Due to the amount of strain induced during indentation,
oxide at the edges of the indent is cracked and removed along with the substrate material.
FIGS. 8 (c) and 8 (d) show damage produced on one of the compositions of the present
invention. This sample was oxidized at 635 "C for 75 minutes and then diffusion hardened at
685 "C for 10 hours at a pressure of 10-4 torr. The oxide (approximately 4 micron thick) was
retained on this sample. The hardened metallic layer formed on the surface was removed by
diamond polishing before the test. The total hardened zone of this sample is 20 to 25 microns.
The damage on this sample is significantly less for the new composition than it is for the
Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition.          Less amount of substrate Zr-2.5Nb is
exposed at the center. The ceramic layer is not removed along the edges of the sample.
Although the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition was a great advance for medical
implants and continues to be superior to other conventional medical materials, this example
shows the marked improvement in the damage resistance obtained over the Davidson-type
oxidized zirconium compositions. FIG. 9 shows results of a wear study when a composition
of the present invention (in this case, a ceramic oxide) was articulated against itself in a pin on
disk test. The test was run on a pin on disk tester at an applied load of 10 N for I Mcycle.
Load was increased to 50N at approximately 0.5 Mcycles. Lactated ringer's solution was
used as the test medium. The disks were flat and the pins had 100 mm radius. The disks and
pins of Zr-2.5Nb were oxidized at 635 C for 120 minutes and then diffusion hardened at 685
*C for 10 hours. The oxide (approximately 7 microns) was retained after diffusion hardening
process. The metallic layer and part of the oxide was removed by diamond polishing before
the test. The pins were used in as diffusion hardened condition and comprised of metallic
hardened layer over the oxide and the layered diffusion zone underneath the oxide.                A
comparison was also made to the current standard of hard-on-hard bearings, high carbon cast
CoCr. The wear of the new composition was approximately 34 times less than that of CoCr
against CoCr couple.      The pin-on disk test does not take into account the geometrical
constraints encountered in a hip, knee or spinal joint. Another object of the present invention
is to also account for the geometrical aspects of the joint. It is well-known that wear in a
                                                   25

hard-on-hard hip joint is biphasic. The first phase of wear is a run-in wear and the second
phase is steady-state wear. In the run-in phase, the asperities of the mating components wear
out. After the running in wear, based on the component geometry and the stiffness of the
components, a fluid film is formed between the mating components. This is typically termed
as steady-state wear. The steady-state wear is typically less than run-in wear. One of the
approaches to reduce the run-in and steady-state wear is to use metal-ceramic articulation as
taught by Fisher et al (U.S. Patent Application 2005/0033442) and Khandkar et al (U.S. Patent
No. 6,881,229). Although this will reduce metal-ion release, the fracture risk of the ceramic
component still prevails.
             [0065]    In another approach, Lippincott and Medley (U.S. Patent No. 6,059,830)
teach applying geometrical constraints to the mating hip components. The '830 patent teaches
the use of components such that the radius difference of the mating components is less than 50
microns. This small difference in radius will promote thicker fluid film formation and thus
reduced wear of mating metallic components.          The disadvantage of this method is that a
sophisticated manufacturing set-up is required to produce components with such tight
tolerances.    The inventors of the present invention have found that such a demanding
manufacturing approach is not necessary. A thicker fluid film can also be formed by using
lower elastic modulus (E) alloys such as, for example, Zr and/or Ti alloys (having, for
example, E<120 GPa), instead of using higher elastic modulus alloys such as CoCr alloys
(having, for example, E typically greater than 200 Gfa). This allows for other metal and
metal alloy systems (other than zirconium and/or titanium) to be used in the present invention
as a substrate of the medical implant when the elastic modulus of such metal and metal alloy
systems is less than 200 GPa. In one aspect of invention, the radial difference between the
mating components of the present invention is kept above 50 microns and based on the radius
of the component used can be as high as 150 microns or greater.
             [0066J    Although most of the discussion relates to oxidize ceramic compositions,
the present invention encompasses both ceramic compositions also (these include oxides,
nitrides, borides, carbides, and any combination of the foregoing). The ceramic composition
 of the present invention has a substantially thicker diffusion hardened zone than the Davidson
 type oxidized zirconium compositions. The diffusion zone of the compositions of the present
 invention has a layered structure unlike the diffusion zone of the Davidson-type compositions
 of the prior art. The thickness of the diffusion zone is at least equal to that of the ceramic
                                                    26

layer formed on the surface of such an implant.       This is accomplished by application of
specific processes and the formation of a novel composition. FIG. 10 shows a comparison of
oxygen concentration profile of the diffusion zone of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium
composition and that of a composition of the present invention. The oxygen rich diffusion
zone in Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition is between I to 2 microns.            The
oxygen concentration at the interface (between the oxide and diffusion hardened zone) is
approximately equal to the solubility limit of oxygen in alpha zirconium which is
approximately 9 % (w/w) or 30 atomic %. In the compositions shown in FIG. 10, the oxygen
rich diffusion zone is greater than 15 microns.      FIG. 11 shows a comparison of micro
hardness profiles of the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition to one of the
compositions of the present invention. The depth of hardening is significantly greater in the
composition of the present invention compared to the Davidson-type composition.           Two
profiles (585 "C - 10 hours and 685 "C - 10 hours) appear to follow an exponential, error
function type of profile.      Samples diffusion hardened at 750 "C appear to follow a
combination of uniform and error/exponential function.        These combinations of different
functions appear to originate from the layered microstructure of the diffusion hardened zone
and are related to the thickness of oxide retained on the surface. FIG. 12 shows anodized
metallographic cross-sectional images of the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium compositions
and new diffusion hardened compositions of the present invention. FIG. 12 (a) shows the
Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition. It is characterized by the oxide and a very
small unresolved diffusion hardened zone. The layered structure of the diffusion hardened
zone of the present invention is absent in the Davidson-type composition. The total hardening
depth of this composition is approximately 7 microns. FIG, 12 (b) illustrates the composition
of the present invention. This particular composition has zirconium oxide and the diffusion
zone that is characterized by at least two layers. The first layer is beneath the oxide and the
second layer is beneath the first layer. Thickness of the second layer is less than the first
layer. The total hardening depth is approximately 12 microns.
             [00671   FIG. 12 (c) shows another embodiment of the composition of the present
invention. This particular composition has zirconium oxide on the surface and the diffusion
zone that is characterized by at least three layers. The first layer is beneath the oxide, the
second layer is beneath the first layer and the third layer is beneath the second layer. The
thickness of the first layer is greater than the second layer and thickness of second layer is
greater than the third layer. The total hardening depth is approximately 30 microns. FIG. 12
                                              27

  (d) shows another embodiment of the composition of the present invention. This particular
  composition has zirconium oxide layer thickness which is less than 0.2 microns and difficult
  to resolve under an optical microscope. The first layer is beneath the thin oxide. The second
  layer is beneath the first layer and the third layer is beneath the second layer. All the layers in
 this particular composition have similar thicknesses. In one aspect of this invention, the oxide
 is preferentially retained on the surface (FIGS. 12(b), 12(c) and 12(d)) during the vacuum
 treatment, This particular aspect leads to further distinctions between the Davidson-type
 oxidized zirconium composition and that of the present invention. The monoclinic content of
 the composition disclosed in this invention is typically greater than 96 % (v/v). The typical
 monoclinic content of the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition is less than 93 %
 (v/v) (V. Benezra, S. Mangin, M. Treska, M. Spector, G. Hunter and L. Hobbs, Materials
 Research Society Symposium Proceedings, Volume 550, Symposium held Nov. 30th
 Decemebr Ist 1998, Boston, Massachusetts, USA, L. Hobbs, V, Benezra Rosen, S. Mangin,
 M. Treska and G. Hunter, International Journal of Applied Ceramic Technology, 2(3), 221
 246, 2005 and Sprague, J., Aldinger, P., Tsai, S., Hunter, G., Thomas, R., and Salehi, A.,
 "Mechanical behavior of zirconia, alumina, and oxidized zirconium modular heads", ISTA
 2003, vol. 2, S. Brown, I.C. Clarke, and A, Gustafson (eds.), International Society for
 Technology in Arthroplasty, Birmingham, AL, 2003.). FIG. 13 shows the X-ray diffraction
 pattern of a Davidson-type oxidized zirconium and the X-ray diffraction pattern of the
 composition of the present invention. The reflection of tetragonal phase is prominently
 present in Davidson-type composition whereas it is negligibly small in the composition
 disclosed in this invention. The typical monoclinic content of the composition of the present
 invention is equal to or greater than 96% (see Table 1).             The Davidson-type oxidized
 zirconium was produced by oxidizing at 635 *Cfor 75 minutes. One embodiment of the
 composition of the present invention was produced by oxidizing at 635 *C for 150 minutes
 and vacuum diffusion hardening at 685 *C for 10 hours at 104 torr. The oxide was retained at
the end of the process. The metallic hardened layer and part of the oxide were removed by
mechanical polishing prior to x-ray diffraction analysis. The remaining phases are most likely
cubic or tetragonal or amorphous or a combination thereof.
Table 1: Percent monoclinic content analysis of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium and one of
the compositions disclosed in this invention,
           Sample                     Davidson-type oxidized        Composition of the
                                                     28

                                    zirconium                    present invention
                      1                        84+2                         97A1
                      2                        821                         982
                      3                        82+1                         981
               Hobbs et. al.                   <93
               Sprage et. aL                   883
             [0068] At room temperature, zirconium oxide is stable as a monoclinic phase. It
is believed that the prolonged treatment at elevated temperature led to this distinction between
the two compositions. Another distinction in composition between the Davidson-type
composition and that of the present invention is the structure of ceramic layer. In the
Davidson-type oxidized composition a distinct secondary phase is seen in the vicinity of the
interface between the oxide and the substrate.        This secondary phase extends from the
substrate through the interface into the oxide. This phase penetrates to an extent of
approximately 3/4th or less of the oxide thickness. Only in rare occasions, this phase is seen at
the outer surface of the Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition. In contrast to the
Davidson-type oxidized composition, the composition of present invention shows this distinct
secondary phase through the entire thickness of the ceramic layer. In the Davidson-type
oxidized composition, this distinct secondary phase is visible only up to a certain depth in the
oxide from the oxide-metal interface. FIG. 14 shows scanning electron microscope images of
the cross-section showing oxide of Davidson-type oxidized zirconium composition and that of
the present invention. In the Davidson-type composition of zirconium oxide, the secondary
phase is present from the oxide/metal interface to at most 3/4" of the oxide thickness (FIGS.
14 (a) and 14 (b)), Occasionally it is seen on the surface of the oxide. This is consistent with
that reported by Benezra et. al. and Hobbs et, al. Whereas, in the composition of the present
invention, secondary phase is present through the entire thickness of the oxide (FIGS. 14 (c)
and 14(d)). Although not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that this is due to the
prolonged vacuum treatment. FIG. 15 shows scanning electron microscope images of the
surface of the oxide. No secondary phase is seen on surface of Davidson-type oxidized
zirconium composition (FIG. 15 (a)). The composition disclosed in this invention clearly
shows presence of secondary phase on the surface (FIG. 15 (b)). It should be noted that this
distinction is visible when the ceramic layer is retained on the surface at the end of the
vacuum treatment. If re-formation of the ceramic layer is carried out after the diffusion
treatment secondary phase may not be present up to the surface. As stated previously,
underneath the ceramic layer is a layered structure of diffusion zone. The Zr-2.5Nb is
                                              29

comprised of two phases, alpha (hexagonal) and beta (cubic).                  The diffusion zone is
predominantly alpha phase (hexagonal). A minor amount of beta (cubic) phase (less than 7%
(v/v)) can be present in the first layer of diffusion zone. The first layer is predominantly alpha
phase and the volume fraction of beta phase gradually increases in the diffusion layer towards
the substrate. If the zirconium alloy is predominantly single phase (alpha) then the beta phase
in the diffusion zone will be significantly less than it is in the substrate.
              [0069]  In one embodiment of the composition of the present invention, when the
ceramic layer is retained on the surface during the vacuum treatment, based on the pressure
and temperature used, metallic hardened surface is formed on the ceramic layer along with the
diffusion zone formed underneath the ceramic layer. This metallic hardened zone is the result
of the reaction at the ceramic layer /vacuum interface.            FIG. 16 shows ratio of atomic
concentration of oxygen to atomic concentration of zirconium (O/Zr) of Davidson-type
oxidized zirconium composition and one of the compositions disclosed in this invention. If
the organic contamination on the surface is ignored, the O/Zr ratio of Davidson-type
composition starts at 1.4 and seems to be constant through the thickness evaluated in this
analysis. For the new composition disclosed in this invention, O/Zr ratio starts at 0.3 and
gradually increases to 1.2 in the oxide. The top 0.2 micron layer shown in the image is the
metallic hardened layer described in this invention. This layer may or may not be retained on
the final medical implant. Below this metallic hardened layer is the ceramic layer (in this
case, an oxide) and below the oxide is the layered structure of diffusion zone.                  The
composition of the oxide disclosed in this invention appears to be slightly more oxygen
deficient compared to the Davidson-type composition. It should be noted that this analysis
was carried out using x-ray photoelectron spectroscope (XPS). The surface was analyzed
while being removed (sputtered) using an ion gun. The depths are approximate and are based
on the sputtering rate of silicon dioxide. XPS is sensitive to surface organic contamination
(carbon-oxygen) and hence shows higher O/Zr ratio on the surface. It is reasonable to surmise
that the top few layers (0.03 micron) are the surface contaminants.
             [0070]   The diffusion-hardened ceramic layers of this invention are produced by
employing three processes. All processes can be performed in a single or multiple steps. The
processes    are (1) ceramic layer formation           (i.e., oxidation, nitridation,     boridation,
carburization, or any combination thereof), (2) diffusion hardening, and optionally, (3)
ceramic layer formation. If ceramic layer is retained on the surface during the diffusion
                                                 30

 hardening, process 1 and 2 may be sufficient. If the final application is such that a ceramic
 layer is not required on the surface, temperature and time are chosen in such a way that
 process 2 will dissolve the ceramic layer completely. Alternatively, the surface ceramic layer
 may be removed by mechanical, chemical or electrochemical means. When the ceramic layer
 is retained on the surface it may form a metallic hardened layer on the oxide. This film may
 or may not be removed for the final product. If the ceramic layer is completely dissolved into
 the substrate and re-formation of the ceramic layer is desired then a diffusion profile is
 obtained which will produce a high integrity and defect-free ceramic layer during the ceramic
 layer formation process.     This diffusion profile can be an exponential function, an error
 function, a uniform, or any sequential combination thereof (FIG. 6, Profiles 1 to 3). It should
 be noted that some of these functions may also be attributed to be linear or higher order
 polynomials. It should be noted that the combination of diffusion profile and retained oxide is
 obtained through careful control of time, temperature and pressure during ceramic'layer
 formation process and diffusion hardening process.
               [0071]   For Zr-Nb-based alloys, the damage-resistant implant is such that it has
 ceramic layer thicknesses ranging from 0.1 to 25 microns and a diffusion hardened zone
(DHZ) significantly greater than 2 micron. The DHZ can be 70 micron or greater. The DHZ
is defined as the region which has hardness at least 1.1 times of the substrate hardness.
              [0072]     There are three general methods to produce the composition of the
present invention.     It should be understood that variations by way of substitutions and
alterations from these general methods which do not depart from the spirit and scope of the
invention are understood to be within the scope of the invention. In this way, the general
methods described below are merely illustrative and not exhaustive. In each of the examples
provided, the ceramic layer formation steps are oxidation steps (thereby producing ceramic
oxides).    It should be understood that these steps are not limited to oxidation and the
formation of ceramic oxides; in addition to or in the alternative of, an oxidation step, one may
use a carburization step, a boridation step, a nitridation step, or any combination thereof
(including a combination of oxidation and one or more other steps). In this way, the ceramic
so produced can be any one or, or a combination of an oxide, nitride, boride, and carbide.
              [00731   In Method A, the ceramic oxide and a thick diffusion hardened zone on
the damage-resistant surface is formed by carrying the following process steps:
                                                 31

 1.      Ceramic Layer Formation. Oxidation by diffusion of
 oxygen in air at temperature less than 700 *C for times greater
 than 5 minutes. The oxidation time can be approximated by
 parabolic relationship of time and oxide thickness (x2 = kt,
 where k is a constant, t is time and x is thickness of the oxide. k
 is function of temperature). In certain cases a cubic or higher
 order polynomial relationship may also be employed.
 2.      Diffusion Hardening. Treating under vacuum or under
 inert gas the above said implant at a temperature range from 500
*C to 1000 *C for a period of greater than 1 hour in vacuum at a
pressure less than atmospheric (typically less than 10-2 torr).
This step either partially or completely dissolves the oxide layer
formed in step 1. The oxygen atoms thus released are driven
 deeper into the alloy substrate, hardening the material. The time
and temperature required to obtain a certain diffusion hardening
depth can be estimated from an error-function relationship.
Hardness at depth d (Hd) is given by:
 H d = H i + (H i- H, )erf             fj
where, Hj is the hardness at the interface, H, is the hardness of
the bulk substrate significantly away from the diffusion zone, D
is diffusivity of diffusing species at the vacuum treatment
temperature and t is time of treatment. "erf" is the error
function. All the parameters should be used in consistent units.
The diffusivity of oxygen can be obtained from the published
literature. In this relationship, it is assumed that the hardness is
directly proportional to oxygen at all concentration levels, and
diffusivity of diffusing specie is independent of concentration.
This is a simplistic view to approximately estimate the dept of
hardening. Those skilled in the art can hypothesize different
relationships of diffusing specie and the hardness and may
obtain a different relationship but the overall shape and profile
will follow that described in this invention. As an example, if
the relationship is exponential or combination of uniform and
exponential or error function, then the depth estimation will be
inaccurate using the above said equation. An example of same
is shown in FIG. 17. Sample in Figure 17 (a) was oxidized at
635 "C for 75 minutes and then subsequently diffusion hardened
at 685 *C for 10 hrs. The oxide was retained on this sample
after the vacuum diffusion treatment. An error function fit
seems to be adequate. Sample in FIG. 17 (b) was oxidized at
635 "C for 75 minutes and then was diffusion hardened at 750
"C for 20 brs. A very small fraction of oxide. was retained on
the surface. An error function fit is not adequate for this
particular sample. It seems that sequential combination of error
function and uniform fit may model the hardening behavior,
                                  32

                 3.      Optional Ceramic Layer Formation. Optionally, the
                 implant is subsequently oxidized again at temperature less than
                 700 "C in air for times greater than 5 minutes. As shown in
                 FIGS. 6 and 7, a suitable hardness profile prior to oxidation is
                 essential to produce high integrity substantially defect-free
                 oxide.
             100741      Ceramic layer formation and diffusion hardening at temperatures less
 than 700 *C helps to preserve the microstructure of the substrate. FIG. 18 shows the substrate
 microstructure of samples diffusion hardened at different temperatures. The grain size of the
 as-received bar stock is less than 1 micron (FIG. 18 (a)).          The microstructure shows
orientation of the grains along the rolling direction. The grain size of the samples diffusion
 hardened at 585 "C show slight coarsening (FIG. 18 (b)).              The orientation of the
microstructure is still preserved.    FIG. 18 (c) shows grain size of the sample diffusion
hardened at 685 *C for 20 hours. The grain size shows noticeable coarsening compared to as
received bar stock.      The orientation of the grains is still present.    FIG. 18 (d) shows
microstructure of samples diffusion hardened at 750 *C for 20 hours. There is significant
coarsening of the grains. The orientation of the grains has disappeared and the grains have
become equiaxed.       The size of the grains is greater than 1 micron.     FIG. 18 (e) shows
microstructure of samples diffusion hardened at 850 *C for 22 hours. Significant coarsening
of the grains can be seen. The size of the grains is above 10 microns. Alternatively, the
second step may be carried out at a temperature and time such that part of the oxide formed in
step I is retained on the surface. The third step of ceramic layer formation may be altogether
eliminated if any remaining ceramic layer is sufficient. It should be noted that when the
ceramic layer is retained on the surface, a thin metallic hardened film fonns on the surface.
The composition of the film is shown FIG. 16. This film may be retained on the surface or
can be polished by mechanical, chemical or electrochemical means if desired. Alternatively,
the second step of diffusion hardening is carried out in an inert atmosphere such as composed
of argon (or other inert gas) with partial pressure of oxygen (or other diffusion hardening
species) in the system typically less than 0.2 x 102 tort and temperature range from 500 "C to
greater than 800 *C. Alternatively, if re-formation of ceramic layer is desired as a third step,
an adequate diffusion profile is obtained to produce a high integrity, predominantly defect
free ceramic layer (FIGS. 6 and 7).
             [0075]     In Method B, the ceramic oxide and a thick diffusion hardened zone on
the damage-resistant surface is formed by carrying the following process steps:
                                                 33

 1.      Ceramic Layer Formation. Oxidation by diffusion of
oxygen in air at temperature range of 500 "C to 1000 "C
(preferably less than 700 "C) for times greater than 5 minutes.
The oxidation time can be approximated by parabolic
relationship of time and oxide thickness (x 2 = kt, where k is a
constant, t is time and x is thickness of the oxide. k is function
of temperature). In certain cases a cubic or higher order
polynomial relationship may also be employed.
2.      Diffusion Hardening.       Treating under vacuum (i.e.,
pressure less than about 10e torr) or under inert gas the above
said implant at a temperature of less than 700 *T. The exact
temperature and time are chosen such that a desired oxide
thickness remains on the surface after the vacuum treatment step
is completed. This step likely partially consumes the oxide
layer formed in step 1. The oxygen atoms' thus released are
driven deeper into the alloy substrate, hardening the material.
The diffusion hardening depth can be estimated from an error
function relationship. Hardness at depth d (H4d) is given by:
 H d = H i + (H i - H, )erf 2
where, Hi is the hardness at the interface, H. is the hardness of
the bulk substrate significantly away from the diffusion zone, D
is diffusivity of diffusing species and t is time of treatment.
"erf" is the error function. All the parameters should be used in
consistent units. The diffusivity of oxygen can be obtained
from the published literature. In this relationship, it is assumed
that the hardness is directly proportional to oxygen at all
concentration levels, and diffusivity of diffusing specie is
independent of concentration. This is a simplistic view to
approximately estimate the dept of the hardening. Those skilled
in the art can hypothesize different relationships of diffusing
specie and the hardness and may obtain a different relationship
but the overall shape and profile will follow that described in
this invention. It should be noted that this relationship is an
approximate way to estimate the depth of hardening. If the
profile is exponential or combination of uniform and
exponential or error function, then the depth estimation using
the equation above will be inaccurate. An example of same is
shown in FIG. 17. Sample shown in FIG. 17 (a) was oxidized at
635 *C for 75 minutes and then subsequently diffusion hardened
at 685 *C for 10 hours. Oxide was retained on the surface. An
error function fit seems to be adequate. Sample in FIG. 17 (b)
was oxidized at 635 "C for 75 minutes and then was diffusion
hardened at 750 *C for 20 hours. A small fraction of oxide was
retained on the surface. An error function fit is not adequate for
                                   34

                 this particular sample. It seems that sequential combination of
                 error function and uniform fit may model the hardening
                 behavior.
                 3.      Optional Ceramic Layer Formation. Optionally, the
                 implant is subsequently oxidized again at temperature less than
                 700 "C in air for times greater than 5 minutes. As shown in
                 FIGS. 6 and 7, a suitable hardness profile prior to oxidation is
                 essential to produce high integrity substantially defect-free
                 oxide.
             100761     By vacuum (or inert gas) treating at lower temperatures a desired oxide
thickness remains on the surface and promotes the preservation of the microstructure of the
substrate.   FIG. 18 shows the substrate microstructure of samples diffusion hardened at
different temperatures. The grain size of the as-received bar stock is less than 1 micron (FIG.
18 (a)). The microstructure shows orientation of the grains along the rolling direction. The
grain size of the samples diffusion hardened at 585 *C show slight coarsening (FIG. 18 (b)).
The orientation of the microstructure is still preserved. FIG. 18 (c) shows grain size of the
sample diffusion hardened at 685 "C for 20 hours. The grain size shows noticeable coarsening
compared to as-received bar stock. The orientation of the grains is still present. FIG. 18 (d)
shows microstructure of samples diffusion hardened at 750 "C for 20 hours.              There is
significant coarsening of the grains. The orientation of the grains has disappeared and the
grains have become equiaxed. The size of the grains is greater than 1 micron. FIG. 18 (e)
shows microstructure of samples diffusion hardened at 850 "C for 22 hours.            Significant
coarsening of the grains can be seen.           The size of the grains is above 10 microns.
Alternatively, if re-formation of ceramic layer is desired as a third step, an adequate diffusion
profile is obtained to produce a high integrity, predominantly defect-free ceramic layer (FIGS.
6 and 7).
             [0077J     In Method C, the ceramic oxide and a thick diffusion hardened zone on
the damage-resistant surface is formed by carrying the following process steps:
                 1,      Ceramic Layer Formation. Oxidation by diffusion of
                oxygen in air at temperature less than 700 "C for times greater
                than 5 minutes. The oxidation time can be decided based on the
                parabolic relationship of time and oxide thickness (x 2 = kt,
                where k is a constant, t is time and x is thickness of the oxide. k
                 is function of temperature). In certain cases a cubic relationship
                may also be employed.
                                                   35

              2.       Diffusion Hardening. Treating under vacuum (i.e.,
              pressure less than about 10- torr) or under inert gas the above
              said implant at a temperature of less than 700 "C. The exact
              temperature and time is chosen such that a desired oxide
              thickness remains on the surface after the vacuum treatment step
              is completed. This step likely partially consumes the oxide
              layer formed in step 1. The oxygen atoms thus released are
              driven deeper into the alloy substrate, hardening the material.
              The time and temperature required to obtain a certain diffusion
              hardening depth can be estimated from an error-function
              relationship. Hardness at depth d (Hd) is given by:
               H  d=  H i + (H - Ho. )erf    2
              where, Hi is the hardness at the interface, H0 is the hardness of
              the bulk substrate significantly away from the diffusion zone, D
              is diffusivity of diffusing species and t is time of treatment.
              "erf" is the error function. All parameters should be used in
              consistent units. The diffusivity of oxygen can be obtained
              from the published literature. In this relationship, it is assumed
              that the hardness is directly proportional to oxygen at all
              concentration levels, and diffusivity of diffusing specie is
              independent of concentration. This is a simplistic view to
              approximately estimate the depth of hardening. As an example,
              if the relationship is exponential or combination of uniform and
              exponential or error function, then the depth estimation will be
              inaccurate. An example of same is shown in FIG. 17. Sample
              in FIG. 17 (a) was oxidized at 635 *C for 75 minutes and then
              subsequently diffusion hardened at 685 "C for 10 hours. Oxide
              was retained on the surface. An error function fit seems to be
              adequate. Sample in FIG. 17 (b) was oxidized at 635 "C for 75
              minutes and then was diffusion hardened at 750 *C for 20 hours.
              A small fraction of oxide was retained on the surface. An error
              function fit is not adequate for this particular sample. It seems
              that a sequential combination of error function and uniform fit
              may model the 'hardening behavior.
              3.       Optional Ceramic Layer Formation. Optionally, the
              implant is subsequently oxidized again at temperature less than
              700 *C in air for times greater than 5 minutes. As shown in
              FIGS. 6 and 7, a suitable hardness profile prior to oxidation is
              essential to produce high integrity, substantially defect-free
              oxide.
           [0078]      By performing the ceramic layer formation and diffusion hardening
(vacuum or inert gas treatment) steps at lower temperatures preservation of the microstructure
                                                 36

of the substrate is achieved and a desired ceramic layer thickness remains on the surface as
shown in FIGS. 12 and 18. The combination of the ceramic layer formation and diffusion
hardening steps described results in a significantly thicker diffusion hardened zone (greater
than 2 microns and preferably greater than 5 microns) in comparison to Davidson-type
diffusion hardened oxide and/or nitride compositions. Additionally, the totality of the ceramic
layer and the diffusion hardened zone is 5 microns or greater. These properties result in a
more damage resistant and wear resistant surface, among other advantages. The properties of
the new composition makes it applicable to hard-on-hard medical implant applications. Non
limiting examples of such include knee and hip prostheses having one surface of the new
composition articulating against another surface of the new composition.
             [0079]   It should be understood that the temperature and time parameters can be
varied from those provided above, particularly in the case of different substrate compositions.
Additionally, the processes may be carried out in a controlled atmosphere. Illustrative but
non-limiting examples of a controlled atmosphere include, controlled oxygen and nitrogen
partial pressure, oxygen plasma, in the presence of water gas reactions, in the presence of
reactive gases such as oxygen and ozone in the presence of inert gases such as argon and
nitrogen, in the presence of oxidizing or reducing salts, in the presence of glasses etc.
Examples of inert gases include nitrogen, argon, etc. Examples of reactive gases include
hydrogen, methane, other hydrocarbons, etc. Other controlled atmosphere conditions, known
to those of skill in the art are also included. The goal is to form the composition under
conditions that do not significantly change the microstructure of the substrate alloy.
             [00801     Alternatively, the process of ceramic layer formation and diffusion
hardening can be carried out in an atmosphere that is lean in oxygen (or other ceramic
forming species) content (e.g., partial pressure of oxygen less than 0.05 bar), Alternatively,
the process can be carried out in a single step comprising of all the above steps in one process.
Alternatively, the process can be carried out in ozone atmosphere or an atmosphere whose
oxidation potential is controlled by water-gas reaction such as C02 + H2= H20 + CO or using
controlled moisture in an inert gases such as but not limited to helium, nitrogen, argon and
krypton.
                                                  37

             [0081]   Alternatively, the ceramic layer formation and diffusion hardening can
be carried out in two steps that do not change microstructure of the substrate alloy
significantly. The process of ceramic layer formation and diffusion hardening can be carried
out in a two step process. In the first step, the alloy is treated with ceramic forming species at
a temperature above 700 *C for a period of greater than 12 hours that forms a thicker diffusion
zone along with a cracked ceramic layer or the alloy is diffusion hardened as described in
methods A, B and C. In a second step, the ceramic layer or part of the diffusion zone is
removed by mechanical, chemical or electrochemical means and the alloy is subsequently
treated to form a ceramic layer at a lower temperature and time to form an adherent ceramic
layer with an already formed diffusion zone and thus producing the damaged resistant
implant.
             10082]   Alternatively, the substrate material is first diffusion hardened using a
lean concentration of diffusion hardening species and then a ceramic layer is formed (using a
more concentrated dose of ceramic-forming species to form the ceramic layer).
             j0083]  A two step process can be used. In the first step the material is diffusion
hardened (oxygen, carbon, boron, or nitrogen) in controlled conditions in which the partial
pressure of the hardening species are lean enough not to form stable ceramic compounds with
the alloy, The diffusion zones can be controlled as described above. This is followed by
oxidation, carburization,   nitridation, borization or any combination thereof as described
above.
             [0084]   The damage-resistant implant is produced by forming the ceramic layer
at a temperature preferably ranging from 500 "C to greater than 1000       0C for a time preferably
ranging from 5 minutes to greater than 6. hours. It is preferred that the ceramic formation
temperature be under 700 C to promote preservation of the substrate microstructure. The
time and temperature may be determined from the Arrhenius and parabolic relationship
amongst the ceramic layer thickness, diffusion-hardened zone thickness, and temperature.
Vacuum or inert gas treatment (diffusion hardening) is preferably performed at a temperature
preferably ranging from 500 "C to greater than 1000 "C for a time preferably ranging from 15
minutes to greater than 30 hours.       It is preferred that the diffusion hardening treatment
temperature be under 700 "C to preferentially preserve any of the ceramic oxide formed in
step 1 and also to promote preservation of the substrate microstructure. An optional step of
                                                   38

re-formation of ceramic layer may be performed after the initial ceramic layer formation step
if additional ceramic layer growth is desired.
             [00851    The resulting surface composition can be subject to a variety of surface
preparation techniques after the step of diffusion-hardening to form the adherent oxide. Such
techniques include, but are not limited to, those techniques known in the art to be applicable
to diffusion-hardened surfaces.     It is expected that other, more rigorous techniques are
applicable to the composition of the present invention due to its greater degree of damage
resistance.
             [0086]    In the composition used in the medical implant of the present invention,
the totality of the thickness of the ceramic layer and the diffusion hardened zone is greater
than 5 microns, and preferably greater than 10 microns. Because the ceramic layer may or
may not be present (it can range in thickness from 0 to 25 microns), this requirement may be
met by a diffusion hardened zone of a thickness of greater than 5 microns (and preferably
greater than 10 microns) with no ceramic layer above it or an infinitesimally small ceramic
layer above it. Where both layers are present, the ceramic layer is on the surface and is above
the diffusion hardened zone.       While the diffusion hardened zone is one of the two
aforementioned layers, the diffusion hardened zone itself consists of at least two distinct
layers layer (visible by metallographic analysis). The first layer of the diffusion hardened
zone has a relatively high concentration of diffusion hardening species (higher than that of the
bulk substrate zirconium or zirconium alloy) and may be saturated with the diffusion
hardening species. The zirconium in the first layer is predominantly alpha phase zirconium
(the first layer of the diffusion hardened zone is that layer which is closest to the ceramic
layer, or, where the ceramic layer is absent, the first layer is that layer which is nearest to the
surface of the composition). The second layer is below the first layer and has a lower content
of diffusion hardening species than the first layer.        The diffusion hardened zone has a
diffusion hardening species concentration profile such that, in one or more cross-sections of
the diffusion hardened zone, the concentration of diffusion hardening species decreases as
either an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform distribution, or sequential
combinations thereof. Where combinations of functional profiles are referred to, it should be
understood that such combinations are sequential combinations and do not refer to the
superposition of the various functional profiles. Where the diffusion hardened layer is very
                                                 39

thick due to the use of long formation times, the distribution may approach a uniform
distribution in at least some sections of the diffusion hardened zone.
              [0087]    The layered structure of the diffusion hardened zone can be detected by
metallographic analytical techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.            These
include, but are not limited to, anodization, heat tinting, x-ray diffraction, Auger spectroscopy,
depth profiling, etc.
              (0088]    As described above, the process can be used for an extended period to
form a thick cracked ceramic layer and a thick diffusion hardened layer. The cracked ceramic
layer can then be removed to retain the diffusion hardened layer for subsequent re-formation
of another ceramic layer.
              [0089]   The new composition has application in medical implants of all varieties.
It is expected to be particularly beneficial for use in articulating implants, such as, but not
limited to hip and knee implants. Use of such product in other biomedical applications such
spinal devices, small joints, shoulder joints, etc
              [0090]      Resulting medical implants comprising diffusion-hardened ceramic
layers of the variety described herein are heated to desired temperatures using electric heating,
radiative heating, induction heating or using techniques such as spark plasma sintering or field
assisted sintering. This is accomplished by use of an alloy of Ti, Zr and Nb that is capable of
producing thicker totality of hardened zones (ceramic layer and thick diffusion hardened
zone) that is produced by specific processes.
              [0091]     The present composition will be applicable for any and all medical
implants, but in particular for articulating medical implants such as, but not limited to, hip,
knee, shoulder, elbow orthopedic implants, etc. Vertebral implants are also amenable to the
present invention.      The present invention also finds applicability to any and all non
articulating medical implants. The improved damage resistance is seen in comparison to the
diffusion hardened oxides of the Davidson-type, such as those described in U.S. Patent No.
5,037,438 to Davidson and U.S. Patents Nos. 6,447,550; 6,585,772 and pending U.S.
application serial no. 10/942,464 to Hunter.
              [0092]   Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in
detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made
                                                   40

herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended
claims. Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the
particular embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means,
methods and steps described in the specification.     As one of ordinary skill in the art will
readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention, processes, machines,
manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to
be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same
result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the
present invention, Accordingly, the appended claims are intended to include within their
scope such processes, machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or
steps.
                                                41

Claims
1.      A medical implant comprising:
        a substrate comprising a biocompatible alloy;
        a diffusion hardened zone in said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone comprising a
diffusion hardening species;
        a substantially defect free ceramic layer in contact with said diffusion hardened zone, and
        a metallic hardened layer comprising a surface of said medical implant.
2.      The medical implant of claim 1, having an X-ray diffraction pattern where a reflection of
tetragonal phase is negligible.
3.      The medical implant of claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises grain size of less than
10 microns.
4.      A medical implant comprising:
        a substrate comprising a biocompatible alloy;
        a diffusion hardened zone in said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone comprising a
diffusion hardening species;
        a substantially defect free ceramic layer in contact with said diffusion hardened zone; and
        a metallic hardened layer comprising a surface of said medical implant;
        wherein said diffusion hardening species comprises oxygen and said biocompatible alloy
comprises zirconium, said medical implant further comprising a ratio of atomic concentration of
oxygen to atomic concentration of zirconium that increases in the direction of the substrate.
5.      The medical implant of claim 4, wherein a portion of said increase in the ratio of atomic
concentration of oxygen to atomic concentration of zirconium occurs in the metallic hardened
layer.
6.      The medical implant of claim 4, wherein said ratio of atomic concentration of oxygen to
atomic concentration of zirconium ranges between 0.3 and 1.2.
                                                42

7.      A medical implant comprising:
        a substrate comprising a biocompatible alloy;
        a diffusion hardened zone in said substrate, said diffusion hardened zone comprising a
diffusion hardening species;
        a ceramic layer in contact with said diffusion hardened zone; and
        a metallic hardened layer comprising a surface of said medical implant;
        wherein the diffusion hardened zone has a layered structure comprising at least two
distinct layers under metallographic analysis; and
        wherein said ceramic layer constitutes a substantially defect free ceramic layer.
8.      The medical implant of claim 7, wherein the diffusion hardening zone comprises a
diffusion hardening species concentration that decreases in the direction of the substrate.
9.      The medical implant of claim 8, wherein said concentration is defined by a function
selected from the group consisting of an error function, an exponential function, a near uniform
distribution function, and any sequential combination thereof.
10.     The medical implant of claim 7, further comprising a monoclinic content of at least 96%.
11.     The medical implant of claim 7, wherein the thickness of said at least two distinct layers
are substantially the same.
12.     The medical implant of claim 7, wherein said at least two distinct layers comprise a first
layer above a second layer, the thickness of said first layer is greater than said second layer.
13.     The medical implant of claim 7, wherein said substantially defect free ceramic layer
comprises a secondary phase extending through substantially the entire thickness of said
substantially defect free ceramic layer.
14.     The medical implant of claim 7, wherein said substrate comprises grain size between
about 1 micron and about 10 microns.
                                                43

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
