ABSTRACT
An anchor rod for anchoring, in a borehole, of a component by means of a curable organic
and/or inorganic mortar compound has an attachment region (14) and an anchoring region
(12) with a profiled section (16), which interacts with a curable organic and/or inorganic mortar
compound which is filled into the receiving bore, wherein the profiled section consists of
expansion sections, which are designed to be conically shaped and the diameter of each of
which increases in the direction of the free front end of the anchor rod. The anchoring region
is characterized in that the ratio of the distance (p) of the expansion sections to the mean
borehole diameter (deut,   med) is 0.40 to 0.60, the ratio of the outer diameter (dA) to the core
diameter  (dK)  of the expansion sections is 1.35 to 1.55, and the cone angle of the expansion
sections (a) is 22.5' to 27.50.
(FIG. 1)

           AA
aga           26
    Fig. 1

                                                -1
                                         ANCHOR ROD
Description
[0001]      The invention relates to an anchor rod for chemical fastening with organic and/or
inorganic mortar compounds in a borehole, in particular for anchoring in uncleaned and/or
cracked boreholes and in tensile zones of components according to the preamble of Claim 1.
[0002]      Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]      In addition to conventional fastening techniques, wherein fastening points are
prepared with the aid of expansion bolts or undercut systems anchored in a borehole in a
force-fit and/or form-fit, chemical fastening techniques have been known from the prior art,
wherein an anchor rod or another fastening element is inserted into a bore filled with a
mortar compound and is fixed after the mortar compound has cured. The advantage of
these types of composite anchoring systems is that, independent of the selected fastening
element, they are largely free of expansion pressure and therefore permit low axial and edge
spacing.
[0004]      Anchor rods are known from the prior art that have a plurality of expansion
segments as an anchoring region, which segments are formed from the shaft of the anchor
rod, so-called composite expansion anchors. In the case of these anchor rods, the
transmission of force takes place in the cured state of the mortar compound, on the one
hand, through the bonding effect of the composite mortar between the borehole wall and the
mortar compound and, on the other hand, via an expansion effect through the expansion
segments. Due to the expansion effect, when the anchor rod is under stress, the normal
forces (tensile forces) acting thereon are converted into radially acting expansion forces so
that this fastening arrangement can subsequently expand and can therefore also be applied
in the tensile zone of a component or in cracked concrete.

                                                -2
[0005]     A disadvantage of the known composite expansion anchors is that they are only
conditionally suitable for fastenings that are close to the edge, because of the expansion
forces that are quite high to some extent.
[0006]     Furthermore, for a secure anchoring of the fastening element, composite anchors
require a time-consuming cleaning of the borehole prior to introducing the curable mortar
compound, which, furthermore, leads to considerable contamination of the work environment
with dust. If cleaning does not take place or it is only inadequate, this also has a negative
impact on the load ratings. In the most unfavorable case, particularly when there is a lot of
bore dust between the borehole wall and the cured mortar compound, the anchor rod can be
pulled out of the borehole with the mortar shell when stress is applied.
[0007]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0008]     In at least a preferred embodiment an anchor rod is to be provided that makes a
more uniform introduction of a load in the anchoring base possible so that a fastening close
to the edge is also possible in cracked concrete and in uncleaned boreholes, and with which
high load ratings can be achieved these being in a range above those of the prior art or at
least in a comparable range.
[0009]     The invention is based on the idea of creating an anchor rod with an optimized
design of the anchoring region, which no longer requires the borehole to be cleaned in a
time-consuming manner and which makes possible a fastening closer to the edge as
compared to other expansion anchors or composite expansion anchors, without having to
accept the load rating losses. Furthermore, an anchor rod is supposed to be created which
can be used both in uncracked and cracked concrete and which provides similarly high load
ratings.
[0010]     The fact that a large outer diameter of the anchoring region and a small core
diameter of the anchoring region produce high load ratings is known. However, both sizes
can only be selected within specific limits. The outer diameter of the anchoring region is
limited primarily by the borehole diameter. The outer diameter may be selected just large
enough that the anchor rod can still be inserted into the borehole without any problems.
However, it may also not be selected to be too small, because otherwise the mortar shell,

                                                 -3
which surrounds the anchor rod and fills the annular gap between the borehole wall and the
anchor rod, will be too thick, making it impossible for said mortar shell to break open and,
therefore, for expansion against the borehole wall to occur. The stress diameter in the
anchoring region determines when material failure, i.e., a breakage of the anchor rod, occurs
under the effect of normal forces. It must, therefore, be a specific minimum size depending
upon the borehole size or nominal diameter of the anchor rod.
[0011]     A further object of at least a preferred embodiment was to design the anchoring
region of an anchor rod of the type mentioned at the outset within the system-related
framework conditions in such a way that the aforementioned disadvantages can be
eliminated and the highest possible load ratings can be achieved also in an uncleaned and
cracked borehole and with fastenings that are close to the edge.
[0012]     According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a fastening
arrangement disposed in an unclean borehole in cracked concrete, comprising: an anchor
rod including: an attachment region and an anchoring region which is disposed in the
borehole and which has a profiled section, wherein the profiled section interacts with a
curable organic and/or inorganic mortar compound filled into the borehole, wherein the
profiled section includes a plurality of expansion sections disposed axially in a row which are
conically shaped wherein for each of the plurality of expansion sections: a diameter of the
expansion section increases in a direction toward a free front end of the anchor rod; a ratio
of a distance of the expansion sections to a mean borehole diameter is 0.40 to 0.60, a ratio
of an outer diameter to a core diameter of the expansion sections is 1.35 to 1.55, and a cone
angle of the expansion sections is 22.50 to 27.50.
[0013]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0014]     According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
fastening an anchor rod in an unclean borehole, comprising the steps of: making the
borehole; filling the borehole with a curable organic and/or inorganic mortar compound
without cleaning the borehole; disposing the anchor rod in the borehole after the filling step;
and curing the organic and/or inorganic mortar compound such that the anchor rod is

                                               -4
fastened close to an edge of the borehole; wherein the anchor rod includes: an attachment
region; and an anchoring region which has a profiled section, wherein the profiled section
interacts with the curable organic and/or inorganic mortar compound filled into the borehole;
wherein the profiled section includes a plurality of expansion sections disposed axially in a
row which are conically shaped; wherein for each of the plurality of expansion sections: a
diameter of the expansion section increases in a direction toward a free front end of the
anchor rod; a ratio of a distance of the expansion section to a mean borehole diameter is
0.40 to 0.60; a ratio of an outer diameter to a core diameter of the expansion section is 1.35
to 1.55; and a cone angle of the expansion section is 22.50 to 27.5.
[0015]     Especially preferred embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the dependent
claims.
[0016]     The inventors have discovered that the ratio of the outer diameter to the core
diameter of the conically shaped expansions and the ratio of the distance of the conically
shaped expansions to the mean borehole diameter have an impact on the load ratings to be
achieved, especially in uncleaned boreholes. In doing so, it was further discovered that
excellent properties such as especially high load ratings, low expansion pressure, use in
cleaned and/or uncleaned as well as in uncracked and/or cracked boreholes, can be
achieved if the two ratios are in a specific range. If only one ratio is outside the range
according to the invention, this has a considerable influence on the properties of the anchor
rod. Furthermore, the inventors discovered that the two ratios are dependent on one
another, because the geometries of the expansion sections overlap and mutually influence
each other.
[0017]     It is possible through the cone angle of the expansion sections, measured with
respect to the anchor axis, to determine the proportion of normal forces, also referred to as
tensile forces, which are converted into radial forces, also referred to as expansion forces,
wherein a smaller cone angle produces a high proportion of radial forces. However, to
enable use in the region of a component close to the edge, the radial forces may not be too
large. To make it possible to apply the highest possible normal forces with the lowest
possible expansion forces to a composite expansion anchor, the cone angle of the
expansion sections may only be in a relatively narrow range.

                                                   -5
[0018]     To attain the object, according to the invention, an anchor rod is provided with an
anchoring region, which has a profiled section, which is formed of a plurality of expansion
sections disposed axially in a row, which are designed to be conically shaped and the
diameter of each of which increases in the direction of the free front end of the anchor rod.
The expansion sections are characterized in that the ratio of the distance (p) of the
expansion sections to the mean borehole diameter (dcat, med) is 0.40 to 0.60, the ratio of the
outer diameter (dA) to the core diameter (dK) of the expansion sections is 1.35 to 1.55 and
the cone angle of the expansion sections (a) is 22.5* to 27.5'. The mean borehole diameter
dcui, med corresponds, in this case, to half the sum of the maximum and minimum borehole
diameters according to ICBO and ETAG Guidelines for the metric system or ACI Guideline
355.2.07 for the Anglo-American system with a given diameter for the anchor rod:
dcut, med = (dcut, min + dcut, max)/2
[0019]     The ratio of the distance of the expansion sections (p) to the mean borehole
diameter (dcut, med) is preferably 0.40 to 0.55. The ratio of the outer diameter of the
expansion sections     (dA) to the core diameter    (dK) of the anchor rod is preferably 1.40 to 1.55
and the cone angle of the expansion sections (a) is preferably 250. The distance (p) and the
cone geometry of the expansion sections are constant over the anchoring region.
[0020]     This results in the following ranges for the conically shaped expansion sections:
         Ratio p to dcut, med                  Ratio   dA  to dK                   Cone Angle
             0.40-0.60                           1.35-1.55                           25 ± 2.50
             0.40 - 0.55                         1.40  -  1.50                       25 ± 2.50
[0021]      Because the mean borehole diameter doet          med with a given borehole diameter is
almost constant, this ratio can be controlled substantially over the distance of the expansion
sections p.
[0022]      In the case of a ratio p to dcut med that is greater than 0.60, the load rating
decreases, because the distance of the expansion sections gets too large and,
consequently, fewer expansion sections can be accommodated in the anchoring region. If
the ratio is less than 0.40, even though higher load ratings can theoretically be achieved,

                                                 -6
geometrically this involves either a larger core diameter dK or a smaller outer diameter      dA Of
the expansion section, thus resulting in a negative impact on the ratio dA to dK.
[0023]     In the case of a ratio dA to dK that is greater than 1.55, theoretically higher load
ratings can also be achieved here, however to the detriment of the stress cross section of
the anchoring region, which should have a minimum so that the anchor rod material does not
fail. This means that the core diameter dK with a given outer diameter dA, which is limited by
the borehole size, cannot be made arbitrarily small without jeopardizing the load bearing
capacity of the anchor rod. In the case of a ratio    dA to dK that is less than 1.35, the possible
load ratings drop.
[0024]     The cone angle has a direct impact on the load rating and the expansion effect of
the anchor rod. If the cone angle is less than 22.50, the load ratings namely increase further.
However, the expansion effect also increases as a result of this, i.e., high normal forces are
also converted into high radial forces (expansion forces), which limits the use of the anchor
rod for fastenings that are close to the edge. With a cone angle greater than 27.5*, the
expansion effect drops, thereby increasing the probability that the anchor rod will no longer
detach from the mortar and the mortar shell will no longer break open. Because of this, the
mortar shell can no longer expand and the anchor detaches along with the mortar shell from
the borehole wall and can be pulled out of the borehole.
[0025]     The means for load application to the attachment region is expediently a thread, in
particular a standard thread, for fixing an attachment part in position.
[0026]     Essential for use in uncleaned and/or cracked boreholes is not a bonded
connection but a form-fitting connection between the composite expansion anchor and the
mortar compound. For the composite expansion anchor to be able to facilitate high load
ratings and a subsequent expansion in uncleaned and/or cracked boreholes, it is necessary
for the mortar shell, which encases the expansion segments, to break open. This is only
possible if the mortar shell does not adhere to the expansion segments of the anchor rod
with a bonded or frictional connection.
[0027]     Therefore, it has proven to be advantageous for the anchoring region to have a
non-adhesive surface with respect to the curable mortar compound. For this purpose, the
anchoring region is preferably provided with a casing or a coating, which is non-adhesive

                                                 -7
with respect to the mortar compound. As a result, the anchor rod is able to detach from the
cured mortar shell with a tensile load in an opening crack and execute a movement in the
axial direction. During displacement, the conically shaped expansion sections slide into the
region between the mortar shell and the anchoring region that is expanded from the crack in
the direction of the tensile force so that a form-fitting tension again develops between the
anchor rod and the mortar shell. By further increasing the tensile load, radial forces build up
with the aid of the surfaces of the conically shaped expansion sections and the cured mortar
shell is broken. This leads to the anchor rod being able to expand with respect to the
borehole wall, and the form fit between the borehole wall and the mortar shells is
reestablished. Therefore, despite a dust layer between the mortar shell and the borehole
wall, the anchor rod is able to initiate forces in the component. Because of this ability to
subsequently expand, the anchor rod is suitable for use in cracks and in the tensile zone of
the concrete. Due to the subsequent expansion behavior, the anchor rod according to the
invention can also be used in boreholes that are poorly cleaned or not cleaned at all.
[0028]     The surface of the coarse screw thread can be bright-nickel-plated and/or
chromium-plated or be coated with other release agents and/or lubricants, such as a wax
like, synthetic polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene, silicone polymer and the like, for instance.
Alternatively, it is also possible to electrochemically polish the surface, for example by
means of electro-polishing.
[0029]     To ensure the flow of mortar from the base of the borehole to the opening of the
borehole and to avoid air inclusions when placing the anchor rod, the conically shaped
expansion sections should be provided, especially in the case of a small annular gap, with
means for the passage of the organic and/or inorganic mortar compound such as flow
channels, for instance. The flow channels of the conically shaped expansion sections are
preferably disposed offset from one another, wherein especially preferably the flow channels
are disposed helically around the anchoring region of the anchor rod. This ensures the most
uniform and complete wetting possible of the surfaces of the conically shaped expansion
sections. Any air that is possibly enclosed between the conically shaped expansion sections
when the anchor rod is being positioned is pressed upward through the flow channels to the
borehole opening. The flow channels must be dimensioned such that the organic and/or
inorganic mortar compound is able to flow through them without great resistance. This also
reduces the resistance when inserting the anchor rod. As a result, the most complete
wetting possible of the anchoring region with the curable mortar compound is achieved.

                                                -8
[0030]      In an especially preferred embodiment of the anchor rod according to the
invention, the conically shaped expansion sections are connected to each other and run
helically along the anchoring region so that a thread-like profiled section that corresponds to
a coarse screw thread is obtained as depicted in Fig. 1. Because of this, it is not necessary
for the profiled section to be provided with means for the passage of the organic and/or
inorganic mortar compound. Therefore, the conical surface is completely available for
introducing the load into the component, which produces higher load ratings.
[0031]      In this embodiment, the distances (p) of the conically shaped expansion sections
correspond to the pitch (p') of the thread, which is constant over the longitudinal extension of
the anchoring region. As a result, a uniform conveyance of the curable organic and/or
inorganic mortar compound and, therefore, a complete wetting of the anchor rod are ensured
over the entire anchoring region.
[0032]      The placement process of the anchor rod is accomplished in a known manner.
[0033]      The stress cross section of the conically shaped expansion sections preferably
corresponds to at least the stress cross section of the other anchoring elements, such as the
cylindrical shaft or connecting thread on the attachment region so that premature steel
failure of the anchor rod can be prevented. Because of the advantageous subsequent
expansion behavior of the anchor rod under stress, the anchor rod according to the invention
can be disposed in a tensile zone of a component or in a cracked borehole. Furthermore,
time-consuming cleaning of the borehole prior to placement of the anchor rod is no longer
required. Due to the optimized geometry of the anchoring region, more precisely the profiled
section of the anchoring region, high load ratings of the integrated anchor rod are also
achieved in the region of a component close to the edge.
[0034]      Eliminating the required cleaning steps (e.g., blowing out, brushing out and
blowing out the borehole again) increases application safety, and placement of the anchor
rod is considerably accelerated. No additional cleaning equipment is needed to place the
anchor rod, and the ambient air and therefore the user are no longer additionally subjected
to blown-out bore dust or dust from cleaning.
[0035]      Hereinafter, the invention will be explained in greater detail making reference to an
exemplary embodiment depicted in the schematic drawing. The sole figure shows an anchor

                                                 -9
rod 10, which has an anchoring region 12 along with an attachment region 14. The
anchoring region 12 is provided with a profiled section 16 and is intended to be inserted into
a prefabricated borehole in insertion direction A.
[0036]     Before the anchor rod 10 is inserted, the borehole is filled with a curable organic
and/or inorganic mortar compound, thereby producing a form-fitting connection of the
anchoring region 12 to the curable mortar compound. The borehole here has a diameter
(dcat not shown in the drawing), which is selected greater than the maximum diameter of the
anchoring region 12   (dA) such that it is surrounded on all sides by the curable mortar
compound. The maximum outer diameter           dA  of the conically shaped expansion sections is
selected to be approximately 0.2 mm smaller than the borehole diameter.
[0037]     The stress cross section of the conically shaped expansion section 16     dK
corresponds approximately to the stress cross section of the anchor rod 10.
[0038]     The profiled section runs at least over the entire region of the anchor rod 10, which
forms the anchoring region 12 in an embedded state. However, it is also possible for the
cylindrical shaft and to some extent the connecting thread to be embedded in the borehole.
The profiled section indicates the minimum embedding depth for the anchor rod 10. As the
Figure clearly shows, the profiled section 16 has the shape of conical expansion sections,
which are disposed thread-like around the anchor rod so that a type of coarse screw thread
is produced. In the process, the conical surface points away from the anchor rod in insertion
direction A and describes a cone angle a with respect to the longitudinal axis of the anchor
rod 10 with the longitudinal direction.
[0039]     In the example shown, the attachment region 14 is designed such that a region 26
with a slightly reduced diameter is provided between the free end of the attachment region
14 and the beginning of the anchoring region 12, and that said region can be used to fix
another attachment part in position or apply an inscription to the anchor rod. However, the
region 26 can also have the same diameter as the attachment section 14 or, if the
attachment section 14 is provided with a thread, it can likewise be threaded.
[0040]     To create a fastening arrangement, a borehole with the required depth and the
required diameter is first made. Subsequently, the borehole is filled with an appropriate
amount of the curable organic and/or inorganic mortar compound and then the anchor rod is

                                                  -10
introduced into the borehole, with the anchoring region 12 forward. The helical embodiment
of the conically shaped expansion sections 16 is responsible for ensuring an optimum flow of
the mortar compound in the direction of the mouth of the borehole. After the mortar
compound has cured, the anchor rod can be stressed up to the maximum load level.
[0041]     For the preferred embodiments shown in Figure 1 of an anchor rod according to
the invention for conventional anchor rod types, the following tables (Table 1: Metric system
[mm]; Table 2: Anglo-American system [inches]) provide the common internationally
standardized bore nominal diameter (dcut       nom), the minimum borehole diameter (dcui, min) and
the maximum borehole diameter (dcut, max) according to ICBO and ETAG Guidelines for the
metric system or ACI Guideline 355.2.07 for the Anglo-American system along with the
mean values (dcut,   med) thereof, the pitch (p) of the conically shaped expansion section, the
cone angle (a), the associated outer diameter of the conically shaped expansion section
(dA), the core diameter of the conically shaped expansion sections        (dK), the ratio of the pitch
(p) to the mean borehole diameter (deut,     mad) and the ratio of the outer diameter   (dA) to the
core diameter   (dK)  of the conically shaped expansion sections.

                                                        - 11
  Table 1: Preferred values in mm for standardized anchor rods according to the preferred
  embodiment shown in the figure
          dcut, nom           2 deut, max  dcut, med      p5         a 6       dA 7  dK 8 p/dcut, dA/dK
                1 m deut, min       3          4                                               3
                                                        [mm]      [mm]        [mm]  [mm]   med
                      [mm]
           [mm]                  [mm]        [mm]                                         [mm]
  M8        10.0     10.05       10.45      10.25        5.25      25.0        9.25 6.30  0.51    1.47
  M10       12.0     12.10       12.50      12.30        6.40      25.0       11.25 7.60  0.52    1.48
  M12       14.0     14.10       14.50      14.30        7.50      25.0       13.25 9.00  0.52    1.47
  M16       18.0     18.10       18.50      18.30        9.00      25.0       17.25 12.00 0.49    1.44
  M20       22.0     22.10       22.55      22.33        9.75      25.0      21.05  15.00 0.44    1.40
  1      Nominal bore diameter
5 2      Minimum bore diameter according to ICBO and ETAG Guidelines
  3      Maximum bore diameter according to ICBO and ETAG Guidelines
  4      Mean bore diameter (dCut         med =  (dcut min) + (dcut, max) / 2)
  5      Thread pitch
  6      Cone angle
0 7      Outer diameter, conically shaped expansion sections
  8      Core diameter, conically shaped expansion sections

                                                              -  12
   Table 2: Preferred values in inches for standardized anchor rods according to the preferred
   embodiment shown in the figure
                     1           2 dcut,3 max  dcut,   med       p 5       a 6        dA 7  dK 8 p/dcut, dA/dK
           dcut, nom   dcut, min                     4                                                3
             [mm]        [mm]                                  [mm]      [mm]        [mm]  [mm]   med
                                    [mm]          [mm]                                           [mm]
   3/8"      11.11       11.37      11.87        11.62          5.90     25.0       10.40   7.00  0.51   1.49
            (7/16")
   1/2"      14.29       14.54      15.05        14.80          7.50     25.0       13.50   9.10  0.51   1.48
            (9/16")
   5/8"      19.05       19.41      19.94        19.68          9.30     25.0       18.40  12.20  0.47   1.51
             (3/4")
   3/4"      22.23      22.66       23.29        22.98          9.75     25.0       21.25  15.10  0.42   1.41
             (7/8")
   1      Nominal bore diameter
 5 2      Minimum bore diameter according to ACI Guideline 355.2.07
   3      Maximum bore diameter according to ACI Guideline 355.2.07
   4      Mean bore diameter (dout            med  =  (dcut, min)  + (dut, max) / 2)
   5      Thread pitch
   6      Cone angle
10 7      Outer diameter, conically shaped expansion sections
   8      Core diameter, conically shaped expansion sections

                                                -13
CLAIMS
1.         A fastening arrangement disposed in an unclean borehole in cracked concrete,
comprising: an anchor rod including:
            an attachment region; and
            an anchoring region which is insertable into a disposed in the borehole and which
has a profiled section, wherein the profiled section interacts with a curable organic and/or
inorganic mortar compound filled into the borehole;
            wherein the profiled section includes a plurality of expansion sections disposed
axially in a row which are conically shaped;
            wherein for each of the plurality of expansion sections: a diameter of the
expansion section increases in a direction toward a free front end of the anchor rod;
            a ratio of a distance of the expansion section to a mean borehole diameter is 0.40
to 0.60;
            a ratio of an outer diameter to a core diameter of the expansion section is 1.35 to
1.55; and
            a cone angle of the expansion section is 22.50 to 27.5'.
2.         The fastening arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein for each of the plurality
of expansion sections:
            the ratio of the distance of the expansion section to the mean borehole diameter is
0.40 to 0.55;
            the ratio of the outer diameter to the core diameter of the expansion section is
1.40 to 1.55; and
            the cone angle of the expansion section is 25'.
3.         The fastening arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein the distance of the
expansion section for each of the plurality of the expansion sections is substantially constant
over a longitudinal extension of the anchoring region.
4.         The fastening arrangement according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein a surface of
each of the plurality of expansion sections has a non-adhesive property with respect to the
organic and/or inorganic mortar compound.
5.         The fastening arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
a surface of each of the plurality of expansion sections includes a coating.

                                              - 14
6.         The fastening arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
a surface of each of the plurality of expansion sections is bright-nickel-plated and/or
chromium-plated.
7.         The fastening arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
a surface of each of the plurality of expansion sections is electrochemically polished.
8.         The fastening arrangement according to any one of Claims 5 to 6, wherein a
surface of each of the plurality of expansion section is electro-polished.
9.         The fastening arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
each of the plurality of expansion sections includes a passage for the organic and/or
inorganic mortar compound.
10.        The fastening arrangement according to Claim 9, wherein the passage is a flow
channel.
11.        The fastening arrangement according to Claim 9 or Claim 10, wherein each of the
plurality of expansion sections run helically along the anchoring region.

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number 2012311852, is current as of 2014-04-21 22:14 AEST

