AUTOMATED CLEANING SYSTEM FOR FOOD PROCESSOR AND METHOD
ABSTRACT
      A self-contained system is provided for cleaning a food flow path in a food processor.
The system can be operably engaged without requiring disassembly and reassembly of the food
processor or can be operably engaged after a partial disassembly of the food processor. The
system includes a control assembly for directing passage of a solution through the food
processor without requiring constant operator oversight. The system can employ available
positive pressure water supply, such as public utility water pressure to selectively and
automatically push solutions, including rinses, backwards or forwards through a food flow path
in the food processor, though typically countercurrent to the normal processing food flow. A
manifold assembly includes an intake manifold and a distribution manifold, with an induction
port and/or access port in the distribution manifold for introducing additives or agents into a
controlled motive stream passing through the manifold assembly.

                                                   1
AUTOMATED CLEANING SYSTEM FOR FOOD PROCESSOR AND
METHOD
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    The present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for cleaning a food processor
and in a preferred configuration to cleaning the food processer with a flow of solution that is
counter current or reverse to a normal or forward processing through a food flow path in the
food processor. The present system thus provides a clean-in-place system (CIP) for the food
processor.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    It is generally understood that fluid dispensing systems having fluid lines that carry
fluids to a point of use need cleaning from time to time in order to ensure that no deposits or
microorganisms collect in the fluid lines. For example, beverage distribution systems employ
the use of beverage lines to carry beverages from beverage containers, or tanks, to dispensing
units, which dispense the beverages to drinking containers. If for some reason, these beverage
lines are not cleaned on a regular basis, the collection of bacteria and deposits therein may
contaminate the beverages thereby making the beverages unsafe to drink. Moreover, in
commercial restaurant settings, food and health regulations actually require the periodic
cleaning of beverage dispensing systems.
[0003]    Similarly, food processors having a food flow path require periodic rinsing, cleaning
and/or sanitizing.
[0004]    It is well known to use portable chemical dispenser systems to clean out beverage lines
and other components of beverage dispensing systems. With these portable systems, users have
become quite effective in meeting the various requirements imposed by food and health
regulations. However, these prior art methods are extremely time consuming and require the
attention of at least one person to manually move the chemical dispense systems between each
of the various beverage lines that require cleaning in a particular beverage dispense system. To
add to the frustration, more and more restaurants are offering a larger variety of beverages than

                                                   2
offered in years past, thereby making an extremely time demanding process even more
demanding.
[0005]    Therefore, a need exists for a system for selectively rinsing, cleaning and/or sanitizing a
food flow path in a food processor with reduced operator input and time, while providing
enhanced reporting and monitoring.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]    In one configuration a method is provided including the steps of engaging a manifold
assembly with a food processor having a food flow path with a forward flow direction for
processing a food product from an upstream end to a downstream dispensing port; and passing a
pressurized cleaning solution from the engaged manifold assembly through the dispensing port
to pass the cleaning solution along a portion of the food flow path in a reverse flow direction
from the dispensing port toward the upstream end.
[0007]    It is further contemplated locating a dispensing valve in the food flow path controlling
flow of the food product in the forward direction passing through the dispensing port, the
dispensing valve moveable between an open position and a closed position, and the manifold
assembly including distribution manifold having a wash barrel sized to be received within the
food processor and move the dispensing valve to the open position. It is understood the
dispensing port is an extrusion die. The steps can also include locating a bypass line at a
forward flow outlet of a hopper to pass the cleaning solution along the food flow path in the
reverse direction without contacting food product in the hopper.
[0008]    A further step can include locating a pressure cover having a drain port to cover a
hopper and sufficiently seal the hopper so that pressure of the cleaning solution entering the
hopper is sufficient to force material through the drain port in the cover.
[0009]    The cleaning solution can be formed to include at least one of lactic acid, acetic acid,
caprylic acid an levulinic acid and at least one of sodium dodecyl sulfate and sodium lauryl
sulfate. A cleaning agent can be manually introduced into the manifold assembly.
[0010]    The discharge port can be constructed as a pinch off valve having an open position and
a closed position.

                                                    3
[0011]    A further method of cleaning a food processor having a forward flow direction for
processing a food product along a food flow path terminating at a dispensing port, the food flow
path including an enclosed length, is provided through the steps of passing a cleaning solution in
a reverse direction along at least a portion of the enclosed length of the food flow path. The
cleaning solution can be formed to include at least one of citric, lactic, malic, acetic, adipic,
fumaric, glutaric, tartaric, fumaric, succinic, propionic, aconitic, sorbic, gluconic, ascorbic,
and/or humic acids and at least one of sodium dodecyl sulfate and sodium lauryl sulfate.
[0012]    The method can include passing the cleaning solution in a reverse direction through the
dispensing port to one of an inlet or hopper in the food flow path, the one of the inlet or hopper
being upstream of the dispensing port with respect to the forward flow direction.
[0013]    Further, the method can also include passing the cleaning solution through a bypass
line in the one of the inlet or hopper to isolate food product in the hopper from the cleaning
solution. The steps can include moving a dispensing valve of the food processor to an open
position and passing the cleaning solution through the open dispensing valve prior to entering
the enclosed length. It is also understood the method can include passing the cleaning solution
through an aperture in a bushing to expose an upstream side and a downstream side of the
bushing to the cleaning solution.
[0014]    The cleaning solution can be passed through a plurality of apertures in a beater blade
within the enclosed length. Thus, the cleaning solution contacts a sealing surface in the food
flow path, and the sealing surface includes PTFE.
[0015]    The cycling the cleaning solution and a rinse in the reverse direction along the portion
of the enclosed length can be automatically regulated.
[0016]    The steps can include providing an aperture in the beater blade in the food flow path for
food product having at least an 8% fat content or added particulates.
[0017]    An apparatus is disclosed for cleaning a food processor having a forward flow direction
along a food flow path for processing a food product, the food flow path including an enclosed
length and terminating at a dispensing port, the apparatus having a manifold assembly engaging
the food processor, the manifold assembly including an induction port, a solution input and an
outlet configured to fluidly engage the dispensing port; and a control valve operably coupled to

                                                     4
the manifold assembly to selectively pass a cleaning solution through the outlet and into the
food flow path in the reverse direction.
[0018]     The apparatus can include a drain line fluidly connected to the flood flow path at a
location upstream of the dispensing port relative to the forward flow direction. The apparatus
can also include a bypass tube fluidly connecting to the food flow path at a location upstream of
the dispensing port relative to the forward flow direction, the bypass tube isolating food product
in a portion of the food flow path from the cleaning solution.
[0019]     A wand assembly can be included wherein the wand assembly has a wand manifold,
the wand manifold including a venturi, the wand manifold connected to the manifold assembly.
In one configuration, a wash barrel is connected to the manifold assembly, the wash barrel sized
to engage and seal the dispensing port of the food processor and permit flow into the food flow
path in a reverse direction.
[0020]     A further apparatus is provided, the apparatus having an apparatus comprising: a
manifold assembly including a first wash barrel sized to be received within a portion of a first
food flow path of a soft serve machine, the first flow path having a forward flow direction for
processing a first food product from an upstream section through a first temperature change
station to a downstream section, the manifold assembly configured to engage the soft serve
machine to locate a portion of the first wash barrel within the first flow path; and a pressurized
solution input in the manifold assembly to receive a pressurized solution to pass from the first
wash barrel and flow along a portion of the first food flow path in a reverse flow direction.
[0021]     A further apparatus is provided for cleaning a food processor having a forward flow
direction along a food flow path for processing food, the food flow path including an enclosed
length and terminating at a dispensing port, the apparatus includes an intake manifold having a
first inlet port and a first outlet port, a control valve intermediate the first inlet port and the first
outlet port, a controller connected to the control valve for regulating flow through the control
valve from the first inlet port to the first outlet port and a distribution manifold having a first
input port and a fluidly connected first outlet port, the distribution manifold having an induction
port fluidly intermediate the first input port and the first output port.

                                                    5
[0022]    In one configuration, the distribution manifold includes a venturi intermediate the first
input port and the first output port and the induction port is coupled to the venturi. The
distribution manifold can include a check valve intermediate the first input port and the first
output port.
[0023]    A manifold is also disclosed, the manifold having an intake manifold having a first inlet
port and a first outlet port, a control valve intermediate the first inlet port and the first outlet
port, and a distribution manifold having a first input port and a fluidly connected first outlet
port, the first input port fluidly connected to the first outlet port and the distribution manifold
having an induction port fluidly intermediate the first input port and the first output port.
[0024]    The distribution manifold can include a venturi intermediate the first input port and the
first output port and the induction port is coupled to the venturi. Also, a controller assembly can
be provided and configured to releasably engage a food processor. In one configuration, a wash
barrel can be connected to the distribution manifold, the wash barrel selected to engage a
dispensing valve of a food processor. A wand assembly fluidly can be connected to the
distribution manifold. Further, a check valve can be fluidly connected to the induction port.
[0025]    A further method includes passing a regulated flow of a solution through a manifold
assembly into a downstream portion of a food flow path of a food processor, the downstream
portion of the food flow path being downstream of an upstream portion of the food flow path for
flow in a forward direction of processing along the food flow path and exiting the regulated flow
from the food flow path at an upstream portion of the food flow path.
[0026]    Yet another method includes controlling a flow of solution through a manifold
assembly, introducing an additive through an induction port in the manifold assembly to form a
mixture and passing the mixture from the manifold assembly to pass along at least a portion of a
food flow path of a food processor in a direction counter to a processing direction along the food
flow path.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0027]    Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a representative food processor and the
present system.

                                                   6
[0028]    Figure 2 is a side elevational view of a representative food flow path in a food
processor showing a reverse flow as contemplated in the present system.
[0029]    Figure 3 is a perspective view of a standalone configuration of the system.
[0030]    Figure 4 is a perspective view of an integral configuration of the system.
[0031]    Figure 5 is a perspective view of a hybrid configuration of the system.
[0032]    Figure 6 is an exploded perspective view of the controller assembly.
[0033]    Figure 7 is a perspective view of the intake manifold and the distribution manifold of
the manifold assembly.
[0034]    Figure 8 is a perspective view of the distribution manifold.
[0035]    Figure 9 is a top plan view of the flow path in a first configuration of the distribution
manifold.
[0036]    Figure 10 is a top plan view of the flow path in a second configuration of the
distribution manifold.
[0037]    Figure 11 is a top plan view of the flow path in a third configuration of the distribution
manifold.
[0038]    Figure 12 is a top plan view of the flow path in a fourth configuration of the
distribution manifold.
[0039]    Figure 13 is a top plan view of the flow path in a fifth configuration of the distribution
manifold.
[0040]    Figure 14 is a perspective view of the stand-alone configuration operably engaged with
a food processor.
[0041]    Figure 15 is a perspective view of hopper lid for the system.

                                                  7
[0042]    Figure 16 is a perspective view of alternative drain lines and the hopper lid for the
system.
[0043]    Figure 17 is a perspective view of a rear portion of a dispensing interface and bushings
of scraper blade.
[0044]    Figure 18 is a perspective view of a bushing for a scraper blade of the food processor.
[0045] Figure 19 is a perspective view of a modified scraper blade for the food processor.
[0046]    Figure 20 is a flow chart of a representative cleaning cycle of the present system.
[0047]    Figure 21 is a perspective view of a first configuration of a wand assembly.
[0048]    Figure 22 is an exploded perspective view of a second configuration of a wand
assembly.
[0049]    Figure 23 is a perspective view of the wand assembly of Figure 22.
[0050]    Figure 24 is an exploded perspective view of a portion of the wand assembly of Figure
23.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0051]    Referring to Figure 1, a representative food processor 10 is shown. The food processor
10 can be any of a variety of configurations including, but not limited to, frozen or chilled food
product including but not limited to, beverages such as sodas, beer or wine.
FoodProcessor
[0052]    Referring to Figures 1 and 2, in one configuration, the food processor 10 includes a
food flow path 20 extending from an input or upstream end 22, such as a reservoir, feed tube or
line inlets or hopper 32 to an output or downstream end 24, such as a dispensing interface 26
from which the food product exits the food processor. The food product passes, in a normal or
forward direction along the food flow path 20, from the input end 22 to the output end 24. In

                                                  8
certain configurations, the dispensing interface 26 includes at least one dispensing valve 28 for
selectively passing or allowing passage of the processed food product from the food processor
10. In certain configurations, the dispensing interface 26 includes a plurality of dispensing
valves 28, such as but not limited to one, two, three or more.
[0053]    The food processor 10 can include any variety of devices, including but not limited to
soft serve machines, batch freezers, slush freezers, shake freezers, blended ice machines or food
processors for extruding food products which include flows, grains or meats as well as liquid
dispensers for beverages including soft drinks, diary drinks or alcoholic beverages such as
fermented or distilled spirits. Thus, the food product can be any corresponding product that may
be temperature controlled, mixed, blended, altered, processed or extruded.
[0054]    In certain configurations as seen in Figures 1 and 2, the food flow path 20 incorporates
a number of processing stations 30 intermediate the upstream end 22 (such as the hopper) and
the downstream end 24, (such as the dispensing valve 28). For example, the processing stations
30 can include mixing chambers and temperature control chambers along the food flow path 20.
The mixing chambers include chambers for mixing ingredients provided in a stream as well as
ingredients from different inputs such that the mixing chamber is the volume of initial
combination of different ingredients.
[0055]    In further configurations, processing chambers 30, such as the mixing chamber and/or
temperature control chamber of Figure 2 can include a blade or beater assembly 36 for agitation
of the food product within the chamber, such as by rotation within the chamber.
[0056]    Alternatively, the food flow path 20 can function primarily as a conduit from the input
end 22 to the dispensing interface 26. In these configurations it is understood the food processor
10 can function merely to selectively dispense the food product or can provide an alteration or
conditioning of the food product such as temperature change, carbonation as well as mixing
(compounding). Examples of the food processor 10 having these food flow paths 20 include
dispensing devices such as automated soda dispensers, beer and wine dispensers.
[0057]    It is further understood the food flow path 20 can include a plurality of inputs 22 with a
corresponding smaller or a greater number of outputs 24 depending on the intending operating
function of the food processor 10.

                                                    9
[0058]     A representative food flow path 20 through the food processor, with the reverse
direction indicated by arrows, is shown in Figure 2.
[0059]     While the input or upstream end 22 of the food flow path 20 is shown in Figure 2,
above the output or downstream end, it is understood the input can be located below the output,
wherein the food product is pumped up from a supply, hopper or reservoir and along the food
flow path to exit at the dispensing interface 26.
CIP system
[0060]     The present clean in place (CIP) system 40 cooperates with the food processor 10 to
selectively pass a solution or a rinse through at least a portion of the food flow path 20
intermediate the downstream end 24 and the upstream end 22, wherein the introduced solution
or rinse travels counter current or reverse to the forward, or normal, direction through the food
flow path.
[0061]     The term solution is intended to encompass a cleaning, rinsing, disinfecting or
sterilizing solution, as well as combinations or mixtures. For purposes of description, the
present system is set forth in terms of using the solution, however it is understood the term
solution encompasses water (or other liquid) such as a rinse that may be employed. The term
solution also includes a gas or vapor such as steam as well as other disinfecting gas. It is
understood, the present system 40 can employ any of a variety of cleaning (and/or disinfecting)
materials including liquids, gases and combinations thereof. The solution can be at least partly
formed by an addition of an acidic or basic wash concentrate to public utility water. Exemplary
acidic washes for the solution include citric, lactic, malic, acetic, adipic, fumaric, glutaric,
tartaric, fumaric, succinic, propionic, aconitic, sorbic, gluconic, ascorbic, and/or humic acids and
at least one of sodium dodecyl sulfate and sodium lauryl sulfate.
[0062]     In one configuration, the solution is presented to the system 40 at or within a given
pressure range. However, it is understood the solution can be drawn from a reservoir or supply,
wherein a pump (not shown) can be used to pressurize the solution for presentation to the
system 40. The solution, or select constituents of the solution are a motive fluid for use in the
system.

                                                  10
[0063]    Referring to Figures 3, 6, and 7, the CIP system 40 includes a controller assembly 50
and a manifold assembly 100, wherein the manifold assembly includes an intake manifold 110
and a distribution manifold 150 (Figure 7). The manifold assembly 100 can further include
mounting hardware, such as arms 180.
[0064]    The CIP system 40 can assume a variety of configurations. In one example, the CIP
system is (i) referring to Figure 3, a standalone system wherein the controller assembly 50 and
the manifold assembly 100 are a single unit that is a separate construction from the food
processor 10 and releasably engages the food processor, (ii) referring to Figure 4, an integral
system, wherein the controller assembly and the manifold assembly are substantially
incorporated within or integral with the food processor (either as an after-market or original
equipment manufacturer) or (iii) referring to Figure 5, a hybrid system, wherein certain portions
are integral with or embedded in the food processor and certain portions are separate or
interchangeable - such as the distribution manifold 150 being integral (or coupled to) with the
food processor 10 and the intake manifold 110 along with controller assembly being separate
(interchangeable).
[0065]    Referring to Figure 4, in the integral configuration, the system 40 is effectively an
internal mechanism to the food processor 10. By embedding the system 40 into the food
processor 10, the system becomes a component of the food processor. The integral
configuration eliminates the need of an operator to engage the system 40 with the food processor
10 every time cleaning is to be performed. The integral configuration also simplifies the
interface of the manifold assembly 100 and the food processor 10. By combining the system 40
into the food processor 10, a door assembly 12 of the food processor can incorporate the
manifold assembly to the food processor itself, only requiring an external, or internal liquid
and/or gas supply to perform the desired cleaning process.
[0066]    In the hybrid modular configuration, interchangeability is provided between different
designs of the food processor 10. That is, as seen in Figure 5, the intake manifold 110 and the
controller assembly 50 are separated from the distribution manifold 150, yet operably connected
by tubing or piping (umbilical) allowing for functionality as set forth below. The hybrid
configuration allows for quick change out of the distribution manifold 150, while retaining
standard controller assembly 50 (and intake manifold 110) configurations across multiple

                                                   11
platforms. The controller assembly 50 can be mounted separately from the food processor 10 to
provide even greater design flexibility, and reduction of overall weight of the combined system.
Controllerassembly
[0067]    Referring to Figure 6, the controller assembly 50 includes control circuitry 60, a user
interface and a control valve 90 (Figure 7), wherein at least some of the components are retained
in a housing 52 and the control valve operates in the intake manifold 110. In one configuration,
the housing 52 is water or splash resistant and in certain configurations water or splash proof
(for intended operating parameters). In certain configurations, the controller assembly 50 also
includes a power supply 54 and a communications module 70, as seen in Figure 6.
[0068]    As seen in Figure 7, the intake manifold 110 includes an inlet port 112 for receiving a
pressurized source of solution, such as publically available water, into the system 40 and a
plurality of outlet ports 114, wherein the outlet ports are fluidly connected to the distribution
manifold 150. As seen in the configuration in the accompanying Figures, the intake manifold
110 includes a single inlet port 112 and two outlet ports 114. However, it is understood the
intake manifold 110 can include a plurality of inlet ports 112 and a plurality of outlet ports 114
or a plurality of inlet ports and a single outlet port.
[0069]    Referring to Figure 7, at least one control valve 90 is located fluidly intermediate the
inlet port 112 and the outlet ports 114. In one configuration, the intake manifold 110 includes a
single inlet port 112 and two outlet ports 114, wherein the control valve 90 regulates which
outlet port is fluidly connected to the inlet port. In a further configuration, as seen in Figure 7,
the controller assembly 50 includes a first 90a and a second control valve 90b, wherein flow to
each outlet port 114 is regulated by a corresponding control valve.
[0070]    The control valves 90 are configured to selectively pass water (solution) from the inlet
port 112 through one or a plurality of the outlet ports 114. That is, the control valves 90 are
moveable to provide a flow (including partial or full flow) and no-flow status.
[0071]    The control circuitry 60 of the controller assembly 50 is operably connected to the
control valves 90, the user interface 80 and the power supply 54 to provide for control of the
passage of the pressurized water from a given inlet port 112 to a given outlet port or ports 114 of
the intake manifold 110.

                                                  12
[0072]    Referring to Figure 6, the control circuitry 60 can include timing circuits 62 as well as
counter circuits 64 for controlling the passage of material from the controller assembly 50, and
hence the CIP system 40. It is understood the control circuitry 60 can incorporate the
functionality of commercially available sprinkler systems.
[0073]    The control circuitry 60 can be provided in a dedicated processor or programmed into a
processor 66, such as a PCB microprocessor or controller.
[0074]    As shown in Figure 6, the control circuitry 60 can also include a communication
module 70 which can include readers 72 such as contact or contactless readers for
communicating with RFID or RFID type tags for data storage/identification/controller
manipulation. It is also contemplated the control circuitry 60 can include memory 74, such as
but not limited to nonvolatile memory (NVM), wherein the readers allow for receiving internal
software NVM/firmware updates.
[0075]    The communication module 70 and/or control circuitry 60 can include, but is not
limited to, capability of bluetooth or Wi-Fi type communication protocol. Thus, the
communication module 70 is capable of sending and receiving data for control specific
functions pertaining to the performance of the system 40 and/or data transfer to an external
device capable of receiving and storing information externally for later manipulation. The
communication module 70 can also be configured to communicate/control extensions of the
system 40 that are not physically attached to the housing 52, such as controlling an external
valve(s) that also redirects liquid and/ or gas based agents such as for introduction through the
manifold assembly 100.
[0076]    The communication module 70 can include the reader 72, such as a wireless, RFID or
contactless reader. In one configuration, the agents introduced into the system 40 or employed
by the system can be accompanied by a tag or card, such as an RFID tag that can be read by the
communication module 70. The control circuitry 60 can then identify and verify the additive to
ensure compliance with cleaning procedures. Thus, the system 40 can be programmed to
operate only with material from an original equipment manufacturer.
[0077]    The communication module 70 can be incorporated into the control circuitry 60 or can
be a separate module. The communication module 70 provides for communication with an

                                                  13
operator to and from the control circuitry 60 through any available channel including, but not
limited to wireless and wireless networks such as blue tooth, Wi-Fi, cellular, satellite as well as
local WI-Fl.
[0078]    The communication module 70 can also be configured to communicate directly with
the food processor 10. It is known that certain food processors 10 include a control system for
monitoring and reporting, both for diagnostics and processing. The communication module 70
of the CIP system 40 can be selected to communicate directly with the food processor 10 and
thus respond to use cycles and operation parameters of the food processor to provide efficient
and timely cleaning of the food processor under an automated cycle without requiring operator
intervention. Thus, as the CIP system 40 can provide automated cleaning, the controller
assembly 50 can record operations and thereby provide a record of food processor cleaning.
[0079]    The wireless communication via the communication module 70 and associated apps of
the user interface provide an external control of the system 40. Thus, an operator can remotely
control the cleaning process. In certain constructions, the user interface 80 is sufficiently water
resistant to preclude the introduction of liquid into the system 40 through the user interface.
Thus, an operator can program or use the system 40 with damp or wet hands without precluding
the intended operation of the system.
[0080]    The user interface 80 can be any of a variety of configurations, including touch screen,
button or switch operated or application driven, wherein the application is remotely accessed by
an operator. Thus, the user interface 80 can include smart phones, tablets and other portable
wirelessly communicating devices and associated apps. The user interface 80 encompasses an
interface capable of receiving physical user inputs such as a TUI (tactile user interface), shown
in Figure 6.
[0081]    The power supply 54 can be any of a variety of constructions. In one embodiment, the
power supply 54 is a battery, which can be either disposable or rechargeable (such as by a power
docking station), depending on the intended operating environment of the system. Alternatively,
the power supply 54 can be drawn from available electrical supply, wherein commercially
available converters or transformers are intermediate the available power supply and the control
circuitry 60. In a further configuration, the power supply 54 can be provided by a wireless
interaction such as inductive power transfer, either to directly power or to charge a battery that

                                                 14
then powers the system. Alternatively, the power supply 54 can be provided by solar energy,
hydrogen conversion or scrubbing of available waste energy. Thus, the power supply 54 can be
dry cell batteries, AC/DC inlet from wall outlet, rechargeable power supplies, either removable
or embedded in the housing as well as rechargeable by a cable or wireless charging technology.

                                                 15
Manfold assembly
[0082]   As set forth above and shown in Figure 7, the manifold assembly 100 includes the
intake manifold 110 and the distribution manifold 150. Referring to Figure 8, the distribution
manifold 150 is shown having a number of inputs 154 corresponding to the number of outlets
114 of the intake manifold 110. In one configuration, as seen in Figure 8, the distribution
manifold 150 includes a first and a second input 154a, 154b and a plurality of output openings
156. The specific number of inputs 154 and outputs 156 is dictated by the intended operating
environment of the system 40, and is not limited to the illustrated configuration.
[0083]   The first and second inputs 154a, 154b correspond to and operably align with the outlet
ports 114a, 1 14b of the intake manifold 110 for receiving flow from the corresponding first and
second outlet ports of the intake manifold.
[0084]   The output openings 156 are in fluid communication with the first and the second
inputs 154a, 154b. In one configuration, the number of output openings 156 corresponds to the
number of dispensing interfaces 26, dispensing valves or processing paths of the food processor
10.
[0085]   Referring to Figure 8, the manifold assembly 100 and specifically the distribution
manifold 150 also includes an induction port 170 for introducing an agent into the solution. The
induction port 170 is fluidly intermediate the input 112 and the output 156 of the manifold
assembly 100 and particularly the input 154 and output 156 of the distribution manifold 150.
[0086]   In one configuration, pressurized water is the motive fluid and the induction port 170
introduces an additional component or agent to the solution.
[0087]   The agent is passed through the induction port 170 by any of a variety of mechanisms,
such as pumping, metering or venturi. In the venturi configuration, the manifold assembly 100,
such as the distribution manifold 150, includes a venturi (not shown), wherein the solution or
motive fluid passes through the venturi to create a reduced pressure, wherein the reduced
pressure is used to introduce the agent through the induction port 170. Alternatively, a pump or
metering device can be used independently or in conjunction with the venturi of the manifold
assembly 100 to introduce the agent into the solution.

                                                   16
[0088]    As seen in Figures 9-13, each input 154 is fluidly connected to each output 156 of the
distribution manifold 150 (and hence manifold assembly 100) and one induction port 170, such
as the venturi, is fluidly intermediate each input and output.
[0089]    As each flow path between the input 154 and the downstream output 156 in the
distribution manifold 150 (or manifold assembly 100) can include one venturi (not limited to
one), material or a gas may be drawn into the passing flow. Thus, a plurality of induction ports
170 (such as a venturi) can be located along the flow path in the manifold assembly 100 between
a given input and output. The plurality of induction ports 170 provides for the introduction of a
plurality of agents to the motive fluid. Specifically, in one configuration, a low pressure port of
the venturi is fluidly connected to a supply or source of an agent, wherein the agent can be
liquid, solid or gas, such as ambient pressure air. As ambient air is drawn into the venturi and
the flow, bubble agitation is formed. The downstream induction port 170 (such as the low
pressure port of the second venturi between the input and the output) is fluidly connected to a
supply or source of the agents, such as cleaning, disinfecting or sterilizing agents, so that the
introduced agent is mixed into the aerated flow.
[0090]    In further configurations, it is contemplated the distribution manifold 150 (or manifold
assembly 100) can include a single induction port 170 fluidly intermediate the input and the
output. Alternatively, each flow path in the distribution manifold 150 (or manifold assembly
100) between the input and the output can include a corresponding induction port. Thus,
different food flow paths can be exposed to different solutions, or processing parameters.
[0091]    Referring to Figures 9-13, the distribution manifold 150 can include a variety of
configurations of input(s) 154, induction port(s) 170, outputs 156 and interconnecting flow
paths. These configurations can be selected to provide predetermined flows from each of the
outputs 156 under anticipated operating conditions. Thus, depending on the desired
performance, each output 156 can provide the same flow rate. That is, the construction of the
distribution manifold 150 can be tuned to provide the desired flows from the outputs 156.
[0092]    In a first configuration of Figure 9, the distribution manifold 150 includes at least one
but may have a plurality of inputs 154. One or more of the inputs 154 can include at least one
induction port 170 to allow the addition of other gas or liquids to the solution. The induction
port 170 can cooperate with a venturi or an active mechanism such as a pump or meter.

                                                   17
Alternatively, agents (gas or liquid) can be passed through the induction port 170 by gravity
feed, such as by locating a source of the agent above the induction port. Further, an operator can
temporarily halt flow, and manually introduce the agent to the system through an access port.
[0093]    Further, the flow path in the distribution manifold 150 can include a return portion 158
after (downstream of) the most downstream output 156, wherein the return portion is fluidly
connected to the input 154 upstream of the most upstream output. The incorporation of the
return portion 158 as seen in Figure 9, allows each of the outputs 156 to have an equal cross
sectional area, or diameter for circular outputs, wherein the flow from each output is equal. This
eliminates the need to tune the outlet ports 156 with different diameters, which would otherwise
be required in order to get the same amount of flow from each output.
[0094]    In a further configuration of Figure 10, the flow path in the distribution manifold 150
does not include the return portion 158. To provide for equal flow rate from each output 156,
the cross sectional area of each output is formed to accommodate the associated pressure at the
particular location in the flow path. Specifically, the outputs 156 exposed to higher flow
pressures in the distribution manifold 150 have a smaller cross sectional area than outputs
exposed to lower pressures. Again, the distribution manifold 150 can include one or a plurality
of inputs 154. One or several inputs 154 can include at least one induction port to allow the
addition of other liquids and/or gas. Without the return portion in the flow path in the
distribution manifold 150, the cross sectional areas of the outputs 156, such as output diameters,
is specifically tuned per application in order to make the flow equal between outputs.
[0095]    In a further configuration of Figure 11, the distribution manifold 150 again includes at
least one, but may have several inputs 154, wherein at least one of the inputs includes an
induction port 170 to allow the addition of other liquids and/or gas. In this configuration with
inputs 154 symmetrically centered between the outputs 156, the cross sectional area of the
outputs (output diameters) is specifically sized, tuned, per application in order to make the liquid
flow equal between outlet ports.
[0096]    It is also contemplated an access port or hatch, detachable or refillable reservoir or
dispenser, can be provided along with, or in place of the induction port 170 for the operator to
introduce agents or additives into the flow path.

                                                  18
[0097]    In another configuration of Figure 12, the distribution manifold 150 includes at least
one, but may have a plurality of inputs 154. At least one of the inputs 154 can include the
induction port 170 to allow the addition of other liquids and/or gas to the solution. In this
configuration with input symmetrically centered with the output 156, no tuning of the output is
required.
[0098]    Alternatively, as seen in Figure 13, the distribution manifold 150 includes at least one,
but may have several inputs 154, wherein at least one of the inputs includes an induction port
170 to allow the addition of other liquids and/or gas. In this configuration having only a single
output 156, no tuning of the outlet port is required.
[0099]    However, it is understood the tuning of the distribution manifold 150 may not always
be required for the system 40 to be operational, and such tuning can be selected to provide
enhanced control over the exposure of the food processor 10 to the solution. Particularly, if
regulation of the flow from each output 156 is not critical, the tuning of the distribution
manifold 150 can be decreased.
[0100]    In a further configuration, the manifold assembly 100 (including at least one of the
intake manifold 110 and the distribution manifold 150) or an input 112 to the manifold assembly
can include an ultrasonic generator 180 to impart pressure waves in the solution sufficient to
create cavitation in the solution. The ultrasonic generator 180 can be internal or external to the
food processor 10 or the system 40, thus introducing cavitation in the solution at any location
along the food flow path 20. As known in the art, the ultrasonic generator 180 can be
piezoelectric or magnetostrictive transducers as well as sonifier or sonicators, wherein the
sonication can be direct or indirect. Thus, the solution can be in contact with a probe or can be
isolated or separated from the probe. Commercially available sonifier or sonicators can be
employed in the system.
[0101]    In one configuration, each output of the distribution manifold 150 includes a wash
barrel 160, as shown in Figure 7, sized to be at least partially received within the dispensing
interface 26 of the food processor 10. The wash barrel 160 is configured to physically contact a
corresponding dispensing valve 28 of the food processor 10, such that upon operable
engagement of the manifold assembly 100 with the food processor, each wash barrel contacts a

                                                  19
corresponding dispensing valve of the food processor and disposes the corresponding dispensing
valve in an open (or flow passing) position.
[0102]    The wash barrel 160 includes or defines a flow path extending along a longitudinal
dimension of the wash barrel. Depending upon the specific design of the dispensing valve 28 in
the food processor 10, the wash barrel 160 includes a transverse exit port 161 for passing liquid
from the flow path. The wash barrel 160 also includes an engaging surface 162 for engaging the
dispensing valve 28 and moving the dispensing valve to the open position in response to
operable engagement of the wash barrel and the dispensing interface 26 of the food processor
10. The wash barrel 160 also forms a sealed connection with the dispensing interface 26 to
provide for fluid transfer to the food flow path 20.
[0103]    In an alternative configuration, dispensing pistons which reside within the dispensing
interface 26 can be first removed before installing the manifold assembly 100 (and the wash
barrel(s) 160). Thus, in this configuration while the wash barrels 160 do not include the
engaging surface 162 for engaging the dispensing valves 28, the wash barrel(s) include a sealing
surface 164 for contacting the food processor 10 to create a seal for ensuring passage of the
solution into the food flow path 20.
[0104]    The manifold assembly 100 includes an interconnect mechanism 120 for operably
engaging and retaining the manifold assembly, and any affixed components relative to the food
processor 10, and specifically the dispensing interface 26. As shown in Figure 14, a pair of
mounting arms 122 are rotatably mounted to the manifold assembly 100, wherein the mounting
arms can be moved between a release position and an engaged position. In the engaged
position, the mounting arms 122 operably retain the manifold assembly 100 and the attached
controller assembly 50 relative to the food processor 10. It is understood that in alternative
configurations, such as the system having a single wash barrel 160, the system 40 could rotate or
snap into operable engagement with the food processor 10 without requiring independent
mounting arms 122 or movement of such mounting arms.
[0105]    For those configurations employing a gas or vapor as the solution, such as steam or
disinfecting gas, the control assembly 50 and manifold assembly 100 are configured to provide
sufficient pressurization of the food flow path 20.

                                                   20
[0106]    In configurations of the food processor 10 in which the hoppers 32 define the upstream
end 22 of the food flow path 20, one configuration as shown in Figure 16, the system 40
includes a pressure cover 42 for substantially sealing the upstream end of hopper-by-pass tube(s)
44 and tubing, which extend from the hopper(s) product inlet orifice(s). The pressure cover 42
includes a lid 43 and seated seal 45 for engaging a corresponding surface adjacent a periphery of
the hopper 32 or engaging the periphery of the hopper. The pressure cover 42 also includes a
drain port for passing solution that has flowed counter current through the food flow path 20. A
drain line(s) is connected to the drain port to direct the passed solution to a catch basin or
disposal. The pressure cover 42 and the by-pass tube(s) 44 sufficiently seal the hopper(s) and
inlet orifice(s) so that pressure of the cleaning solution entering the hopper by-pass-tube(s) 44 is
sufficient to force material into and through the drain port. As seen in the left hopper of Figure
16, an insert hopper, with associated drain line, can be temporarily located within the system
hopper. The insert hopper / or hopper sealed cover 42 can be located within / or top mounted to
the food processor hopper, wherein the insert / or cover hopper is sized to be spaced/ or seal
fitted from the food processor hopper so that solution can pass between / or within the hopper(s)
and into the insert / or within the hopper itself.)
[0107]    Referring to Figure 15, the by-pass tube(s) 44 sufficiently seal hopper(s) outlet
orifice(s) 34 so that pressure of the cleaning solution entering the hopper by-pass-tube(s) is
sufficient to force material into and through the drain port. The bypass tube 44 connects to the
food processor 10 by inserting into the product mix ports 34 in the bottom of the hopper 32.
The bypass tubes 44 can be held in place by either active (mechanical) or non-active
(interference fit) engagement. The connected bypass tubing 44 dispenses the machine waste
into a catch basin or floor drain.
[0108]    In a further alternative configuration, an insert hopper / or hopper sealed cover 42 can
be located within / or top mounted to the food processor hopper, wherein the insert / or cover
hopper is sized to be spaced/ or seal fitted from the food processor hopper so that solution can
pass between / or within the hopper(s) and into the insert / or within the hopper itself.)
Bypass assembly
[0109]    The bypass assembly of the present system fluidly connects to the food flow path 20 in
the food processor 10 intermediate the upstream end 22 and the downstream end 24 of the food

                                                 21
flow path. The bypass assembly includes the bypass line 44 fluidly connected to the food flow
path 20 intermediate the upstream end 22 and the downstream end 24 of the flow path. That is,
as seen in Figure 15, the bypass line 44 connects to the food flow path 20 at a location
downstream (in the normal or forward direction of product along food flow path in the food
processor) and terminates at a point outside of the food flow path. Referring to Figure 15, in
one configuration, the bypass line 44 fluidly connects to the food flow path 20 at the exit of the
hopper 32 and terminates in a drain or catch basin. Thus, solution introduced into the food flow
path 20 at the dispensing interface 26 and flowing in the reverse direction along the food flow
path passes into the bypass line 44 without contacting the material in the hopper 32 and the
solution is guided from the food processor 10 through the bypass line without contacting any
material in the hopper.
[0110]    In select configurations shown in Figure 17, the food processor 10 includes a bushing
or bearing 14 for retaining or locating a beater assembly 36 as seen in Figure 1. The bushing 14
provides a wearable interface between a rotatable beater bar 38 and the mandrel or chiller tubes.
The present system employs a modified bushing 14 having a flow port 15 allowing water or
solution to flow to both sides (upstream and downstream side) of the bushing. Thus, solution
from the manifold assembly 100 can migrate between the bushing 14 and the surrounding
portion of the food processor 10 thereby allowing more complete exposure of the food path to
the introduced solution. That is, the bushing 14 has an internal surface and an external surface,
wherein the flow port 15 connects the internal surface to the external surface.
[0111]    In a further configuration shown in Figures 18 and 19, the present system modifies the
beater blade 38 of the food processor 10. Specifically, the present beater blade 38 includes a
plurality of flow holes 39 through the beater blade, wherein the flow holes permit the introduced
solution, flowing in the reverse direction along the food flow path 20, to migrate between the
beater bar in the beater blade, thereby providing further cleaning. It has been found
advantageous to employ the apertures 39 in the beater blade 38 for food product having a
relatively high fat content, such at least 8% as well as 10 to 12% or more fat content. For food
product having particulate matter, such as seeds or solid food particles (cookies in dairy dessert),
the beater blade 38 is employed without flow holes. In a further configuration, the beater blade
38 is modified to include only one surface contacting member to a beater barrel of the food
processor 10. That is, only a single beater blade edge contacts the beater barrel. As seen in the

                                                    22
Figure 18, the beater bar supports two beater blades 38, however the modification removes one
of the blades so only one edge of one beater blade contacts the barrel.
[0112]    In a further alternative structure, a sealant is located between the beater bar and the
beater blade 38 to form a self-conforming configuration of the beater blade and forms a one-to
one seal between the beater bar and the beater blade, thereby reducing migration of product
between the beater bar and the beater blade. A commercially available food grade sealant can
be used between the beater blade 38 and the beater bar. This reduces the amount of fluid used to
clean the machine and reduces the cycle time of the system 40. It is understood any
combination of these beater blade, beater bar configurations can be employed.
[0113]    Referring to Figure 1, the present system also optionally self-lubricating O-rings and
seals 16 in place of traditional food grade grease for sealing. The use of self-lubricating O-rings
and seals 16 allows for the elimination of a food safe lubrication to place the food processor in
an operable status. As the reintroduction of the food grade lubricant is not necessary after
cleaning, the present system 40 provides for reduced maintenance time. Satisfactory self
lubricating O-rings and seals 16 include commercially available plastic or elastomer O-rings and
seals impregnated with approximately 3%-5% polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) or bearing, but
not limited to a PTFE coating as commercially available. The present O-rings and food
contacting sealing surfaces 16 include a PTFE (Teflon coating a registered mark of E. I. Du
Pont De Nemours and Company Corporation) coating or impregnation, thereby removing the
need for removal and reapplication of food grade grease.
[0114]    Operation
[0115]    In operation, the operator mechanically connects the manifold assembly 100 to the
dispensing interface 26 of the food processor 10 by engaging the mounting arms 122 with the
food processor, as shown in Figure 14. The wash barrels 160 contact the corresponding
dispensing valves 28 of the food processor 10 and upon operable engagement of the manifold
assembly 100 to the food processor 10, the wash barrels dispose the dispensing valves to the
open position. One induction port 170 of the manifold assembly 100 is connected to a supply of
cleaning, disinfecting or sterilizing solution as depending upon the intended cleaning process,
and the remaining induction port may be allowed to aspirate ambient air. The inlet port 112 of

                                                  23
the intake manifold 110 is connected to the public utility water supply or a portable pressurized
water supply and thus a positive pressure is placed upon the control valves 90.
[0116]    The operator then programs the controller assembly 50 via the available user interface
80 for the desired cleaning (wash) - rinse cycles. For example, the operator can select from one
of three options: (i) Rinse only; (ii) Wash only and (iii) Rinse-Wash cycle. Alternatively a
second and final rinse cycle can be performed if the operator desires to rinse out the wash
solution residual prior to reintroducing the food product mix back into the machine. That is, the
controller assembly 50 can include a number of predetermined rinse, wash or combination
cycles along with preset soak times.
[0117]    Further, depending upon the intended cleaning with respect to the material in the
hopper(s) 32 of the food processor 10, the bypass lines 44 may be fluidly connected to the ports
34 of the hoppers such that introduced solution passes through the bypass tubes 44 rather than
contacting the hopper and thus does not contact any material within the hoppers, thereby
permitting the operator to minimize the waste of food product, while reducing entire cleaning
cycle time.
[0118]    Alternatively, if the hoppers 32 are part of the entire food processor cleaning process,
the bypass lines 44 are placed in the hoppers after the operator cleans the hopper using the wand
assembly and/or sanitation wipes. The drain line(s) are connected to the drain port(s).
[0119]    The controller assembly 50 selectively controls the control valves 90 corresponding to
the input program to pass water or solution through the wash barrel(s) 160 and into the open
dispensing valve(s) 28 of the food processor 10. The introduced water/solution passes
countercurrent through the food flow path 20 in the food processor 10 and the apertures in the
bushings 14 and beater blades 38 (if employed).
[0120]    The controller assembly 50 is also operatively connected to the ultrasonic generator
180 for selectively operating the generator to introduce corresponding cavitation in the solution.
[0121]    Additionally or alternatively, the controller assembly 50 can control the optional
aspiration of air into the flow via the induction port 170 including a first venturi. Thus, the
controller assembly 50 provides for the selective introduction of bubbles into the counter current
flow, wherein the bubbles enhance the cleaning action of the rinse. It is believed the bubbles

                                                 24
increase turbulence and kinetic energy in the passing flow, thereby enhancing the cleaning
action.
[0122]    The cleaning solution ultimately passes into the bypass tubes 44 and may be captured
or disposed of down the available drain. Alternatively, if the bypass lines 44 are not employed,
the solution passes from the drain port 47 in the pressure cover 42 for disposal.
[0123]    Upon completing the programmed cycles, the present system 40 automatically
terminates the flow of solutions - rinses through the food processor. The present system 40 can
be then disconnected from the dispensing interface 26 of the food processor 10 and the bypass
tubes 44 removed from the hopper(s) 32 (or the pressure cover 42 removed) thereby allowing
for normal operation of the food processor, subsequent to the present clean in place.
[0124]    Alternatively, for those configurations of the integral system, valves interconnecting
the manifold assembly and the food flow path are closed, thereby isolating the system from the
food flow path.
[0125]    A representative flow chart is shown in Figure 20.
Wand assembly
[0126]    Referring to Figure 21, the present system can further include a wand assembly 200
comprising a wand manifold 220 and a wand 260, wherein the wand can be connected to the
wand manifold by an interconnecting hose(s) 250.
[0127]    The wand manifold 220 includes a separate water inlet port 222 such as for receiving
water from the public utility supply or other pressurized sources.
[0128]    Referring to Figures 22 and 24, the wand manifold 220 includes an induction port 230
such as a venturi 232 for aspirating or drawing in a cleaning, disinfecting or sterilizing solution,
wherein the solution is passed for selective dispensing by the wand 260.
[0129]    In further configurations, the wand manifold 220 can allow for an optional supply of
fresh water supply. Alternatively, the ability to select substitute cleaners is set by the
configuration of the wand 260 or wand manifold 220 itself by the operator. Thus, a plurality of

                                                  25
venturi and/or metering pumps can be connected to the wand manifold 220. In the configuration
using a metering pump, a flow meter(s) can be used in conjunction with an onboard micro
processor, which could be powered in many different ways i.e. replaceable batteries, re
chargeable batteries, directly connected to a continuous power supply. The wand assembly 200
can also contain a communication module 270 as set forth above, and thus have for example
RFID technology that records and confirms OEM solutions are being used to keep the integrity
of the system as intended.
[0130]    Thus, the wand manifold 220 can be as simple as a clear tube, such as a clear tube, for
the purpose of housing at least one inlet induction port into the directed flow path. In another
configuration, the wand manifold 220 can be intelligent with flow sensor(s), temperature
sensor(s), chemical sensor(s), valve(s), microprocessor(s) capable of controlling and sensing
flow through the wand manifold and reporting information in real time and post processing by
means of the communication module as set forth above, such as RFID, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi.
[0131]    In a further configuration as seen in Figures 22 and 23, the wand assembly 200 can be
integrated into the CIP system 40, so that the controller assembly 50 can operate both the
manifold assembly 100 and the wand assembly 200. Further, the manifold assembly 100 can be
fluidly connected to the wand assembly 200 so that the composition of solution flow through the
wand assembly is controlled by the control circuitry 60 of the controller assembly 50.
[0132]    In operation of the wand assembly 200, actuation of the wand permits flow through the
induction port 170 or venturi 172.
[0133]    In a further configuration, the wand assembly 200 can be selected to accommodate two
different and selectable flow rates. The wand 260 and venturi 172 are selected such that (i) a
first flow rate which does not draw in the additive (agent) - thereby providing an additive free
rinse and (ii) a second flow rate which draws the solution into the passing flow. The flow rates
can be provided by operating positions of the wand 260, such as a position of the tip or an
orientation of the tip or mechanical flow control such as valving or selective flow obstruction.
[0134]    It is further contemplated the present system may be stored on a rack 280 for retaining
the controller assembly 50, the wand manifold 220 as well as supplies of cleaning solution and
the wand assembly.

                                                   26
[0135]    Although the present system 40 has been set forth as providing for passage of the
solution counter current (or reverse) of the forward flow through the food flow path 20 in the
food processor 10, it is understood the system can be operably located at an upstream position or
upstream end of the food flow path to pass the solution in a forward direction along the food
flow path.
[0136]    It is also contemplated that agents or additives can be introduced by the operator
introducing such agents or additives through an access door or port during a flow or no-flow
status of the system 40.
[0137]    The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to a presently
preferred embodiment, but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be
effected within the spirit and scope of the invention. The presently disclosed embodiments are
therefore considered in all respects to be illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the
invention is indicated by the appended claims, and all changes that come within the meaning
and range of equivalents thereof are intended to be embraced therein.

                                                   27
CLAIMS:
1.     An apparatus comprising:
       a manifold assembly including a first wash barrel sized to be received within a portion of a
first food flow path of a soft serve machine, the first flow path having a forward flow direction
for processing a first food product from an upstream section through a first temperature change
station to a downstream section, the manifold assembly configured to engage the soft serve
machine to locate a portion of the first wash barrel within the first flow path; and
       a pressurized solution input in the manifold assembly to receive a pressurized solution to
pass from the first wash barrel and flow along a portion of the first food flow path in a reverse
flow direction.
2.     The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a bypass line configured to connect to the
first food flow path to isolate a portion of the food flow path from the pressurized solution.
3.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the manifold assembly is configured to releasably
engage the soft serve machine.
4.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the manifold assembly is configured to be integral with
the soft serve machine.
5.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the flow of the pressurized solution along the portion
of the first food flow path in the reverse flow direction includes a portion of the first temperature
change station.
6.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the manifold assembly is integral with the soft serve
machine.
7.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein manifold assembly is configured to locate portion of
the first wash barrel intermediate the first temperature change station and the downstream
section.
8.     The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a supply of pressurized solution, the supply
of pressurized solution being internal to the soft serve machine.

                                                  28
9.     The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a supply of pressurized solution, the supply
of pressurized solution being external to the soft serve machine.
10.    The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a door assembly, wherein the manifold
assembly is integral with the door assembly.
11.    A method comprising:
       engaging a manifold assembly with a food processor having a food flow path for passing a
food product in a forward direction from an upstream portion to a downstream portion;
       passing a pressurized cleaning solution from the engaged manifold assembly into the food
flow path to pass the cleaning solution along a portion of the food flow path in a reverse flow
direction; and
       passing the cleaning solution through a bypass line to isolate a portion of the food flow
path from the cleaning solution.
12.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising manually introducing a cleaning agent into
the cleaning solution.
13.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising passing the cleaning solution through an
aperture in a bushing in the food flow path to expose an upstream side and a downstream side of
the bushing to the cleaning solution.
14.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising passing the cleaning solution through a
plurality of apertures in a beater blade within the food flow path.
15.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising automatically cycling the cleaning solution
and a rinse in the reverse direction along the food flow path.
16.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising locating an aperture in a beater blade in the
food flow path for food product having at least one of at least an 8% fat content or at least an 8%
solid content.
17.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising fluidly connecting a wand assembly to the
manifold assembly.

                                                29
18.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising automatically introducing a cleaning agent
into the cleaning solution through the manifold assembly.
19.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising releasably engaging the manifold assembly
with the food processor.
20.    The method of Claim 11, further comprising integrally connecting the manifold assembly
with the food processor.
                                        Idea Boxx, LLC
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                          1/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 1
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              2/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 2
                                          FIGURE 3
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              3/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 4
                                          FIGURE 5
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              4/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 6
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              5/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 7
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              6/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 8
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              7/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 9
                                          FIGURE 10
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              8/17
<removed-date>
                                          FIGURE 11
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 12
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              9/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 13
                                          FIGURE 14
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              10/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 15
                                          FIGURE 16
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              11/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 17
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              12/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 18
                                          FIGURE 19
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              13/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 20
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                              14/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 21
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                             15/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 22
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                             16/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 23
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

                                             17/17
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          FIGURE 24
              14164571 (IRN: P229375D1)

