                                        ABSTRACT
         The present invention relates to a method for measuring the cholesterol uptake
capacity of lipoproteins.    The present invention also relates to a reagent kit for
measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins.     The present invention
further relates to a tagged cholesterol which can be used in the method and the reagent
kit.

                                                   1
                                           DESCRIPTION
TITLE OF INVENTION: METHOD FOR MEASURING CHOLESTEROL UPTAKE
CAPACITY OF LIPOPROTEINS AND REAGENT KIT THEREOF
         This application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, the entire contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
  [0001]
         The present invention relates to a method for measuring the cholesterol uptake
capacity of lipoproteins.     The present invention also relates to a reagent kit for measuring the
cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins.     The present invention further relates to a tagged
cholesterol which can be used in the method and the reagent kit.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]
         Cholesterol metabolic disorder is involved in various diseases, and the blood
cholesterol concentration is known to be an indicator of the disorder.       However, the
cholesterol concentration may not reflect the presence of the diseases, the risk of the diseases,
and the like.  Therefore, there is interest in the qualitative indicator which is focused on the
functions of cholesterols as well as the quantitative indicator such as the cholesterol
concentration.
[0003]
         For example, even if the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration
in blood is high, the risk of the cardiovascular disease (CVD) may not be decreased.
Therefore, the possibilities in which the HDL-C concentration does not reflect the risk of
CVD completely are pointed out.        There is interest in the functions of high-density
lipoprotein (HDL).     It is reported that the excretion of cholesterol from peripheral tissues by
HDL is a negative prognostic factor against the risk of CVD.

                                               2
[0004]
          As a method for determining the functions of HDL, for example, Patent
Literature 1 describes a method for diagnosing dyslipidemia by using a fluorescently
labeled cholesterol without using cultured cells.     In the method, a monolayer
surrounding the various lipoprotein including low-density lipoprotein (LDL) or HDL is
labeled with a fluorescently labeled cholesterol (cholesterol pyrene), and a subject is
diagnosed with dyslipidemia based on the resulting fluorescent spectrum by measuring
the labeled lipoprotein.    The literature describes that the labeled lipoprotein can be
separated from free fluorescently labeled cholesterol by ultracentrifugal separation,
dialysis, or FPLC by using gel filtration column.
CITATIONS LIST
[0005]
          Patent Literature 1: PCT International Application Publication No.
2012/104411
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
TECHNICAL PROBLEMS
[0006]
          As a method for analyzing the functions of lipoproteins, there is a few methods
for measuring lipoproteins, which is focused on the cholesterol uptake capacity of
lipoprotein.   Accordingly, there is a need for developing further methods for measuring
lipoproteins.
SOLUTIONS TO PROBLEMS
[0007]
          The present invention provides a method for measuring the cholesterol uptake
capacity of lipoproteins, comprising the steps of:

                                             3
        forming a complex by contacting a lipoprotein in a sample, a tagged cholesterol,
and an antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein, the complex comprising the
lipoprotein, the tagged cholesterol incorporated into the lipoprotein, and the antibody;
         labeling the complex by bonding a capture body which specifically binds to the
tag and a label with the complex;
         detecting a signal resulted from the label which has been bound to the complex.
[0008]
         The present invention also provides a reagent kit for measuring the cholesterol
uptake capacity of lipoproteins, comprising:
         a tagged cholesterol;
         an antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein;
         a capture body which specifically binds to the tag; and
         a label.
[0009]
         The present invention also provides a tagged cholesterol represented by the
following formula (III):
[Chemical Formula 1]
                                        Ri 4 X -ir- L44i-Y4--TAG
                                                                               (III)
                         H         H
   HO;
wherein R1 is an alkylene group having I to 6 carbon atoms, which may have a methyl

                                                4
group,
          X and Y are identical or different and each represents -R 2-NH-, -NH-R 2-,
-R 2 -(C=O)-NH-, -(C=O)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=O)-, -NH-(C=O)-R 2 -, -R 2 -(C=O)-,
-(C=O)-R 2-, -R 2-(C=O)-O-, -(C=O)-O-R 2-, -R 2 -0-(C=O)-, -O-(C=O)-R 2-,
-R 2 -(C=S)-NH-, -(C=S)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=S)-, -NH-(C=S)-R 2 -, -R 2 -0-, -O-R 2 -,
-R2-S-, or -S-R 2-, wherein each R 2 is independently an atomic bonding; an alkylene
group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, which may have a substituent group; an arylene
group or a heteroarylene group having 6 to 12 carbon atoms, each of which may have a
substituent group; or a cycloalkylene group or a heterocycloalkylene group having 3 to
8 carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent group;
          L represents -(CH 2)d-[R 3 -(CH 2)e]f or -[(CH2)e-R3]r(CH2)d-, wherein R 3 is an
oxygen atom, a sulfur atom, -NH-, -NH-(C=O)-, or -(C=0)-NH-;
          TAG is a tag;
          a and c are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 6;
          b is 0 or 1;
          d and e are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 12; and
          f is an integer of 0 to 24.
ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS OF INVENTION
[0010]
          According to the present invention, a method for measuring the cholesterol
uptake capacity of lipoproteins is provided.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0011]
          Fig. 1 is a graph showing the amount of the complex captured by an
anti-apolipoprotein Al (ApoAl) antibody on the solid phase, as measured by sandwich

                                           5
ELISA method.
        Fig. 2 is a graph showing the amount of the tagged cholesterol incorporated in
HDL in the complex captured by an anti-ApoAl antibody, as measured by sandwich
ELISA method.
        Fig. 3A is a figure showing an example of an appearance of the reagent kit
according to the present embodiment.
        Fig. 3B is a figure showing an example of an appearance of the reagent kit
according to the present embodiment.
        Fig. 3C is a figure showing an example of an appearance of the reagent kit
according to the present embodiment.
        Fig. 3D is a figure showing an example of an appearance of the reagent kit
according to the present embodiment.
        Fig. 3E is a figure showing an example of an appearance of the reagent kit
according to the present embodiment.
        Fig. 3F is a figure showing an example of an appearance of the reagent kit
according to the present embodiment.
        Fig. 4 is a graph showing the amount of the tagged cholesterol incorporated in
HDL in the complex captured by an anti-ApoAl antibody, as measured by sandwich
ELISA method.
        Fig. 5 is a graph showing the amount of the tagged cholesterol incorporated in
HDL in the complex captured by an anti-ApoAl antibody, as measured by ELISA
method using a magnetic particle.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0012]
        In the method for measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins of

                                              6
the embodiment of the invention (hereinafter, referred to as simply "measuring
method"), a tagged cholesterol is directly incorporated into a lipoprotein in a sample, as
described below, and therefore the method does not require cholesterol-containing cells
such as macrophages as used in conventional method for measuring the function of
HDL to excrete cholesterol from the cells.     Accordingly, the measuring method of the
embodiment of the invention can be performed in a cell-free system in all steps as
described below.      The cell-free system means that cells are not needed for the method
of measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins.      That is, the measuring
method of the embodiment of the invention can be performed without utilizing the
properties and functions of cells for the measuring method.      In the embodiment, even
if the sample contains cells originated from the subject, the measuring method is
considered to be in a cell-free system because the cells themselves almost have no effect
on the incorporation of the tagged and labeled cholesterol into the lipoprotein.
[0013]
          The principle of the detection of the tagged cholesterol incorporated into the
lipoprotein in the measuring method of the embodiment of the invention is as follows.
When the lipoprotein is contacted with the tagged cholesterol, the tagged cholesterol is
esterified and incorporated into the lipoprotein.   Cholesterol incorporated into the
lipoprotein is transferred from the surface layer of the lipoprotein particle to the central
moiety.    In the tagged cholesterol, cholesterol moiety is incorporated into the
lipoprotein, and the tag is probably exposed on the outer surface of the lipoprotein.
The phrase "outer surface of the lipoprotein" refers to the outer surface of the
lipoprotein particle.   The phrase "exposed on the outer surface" means the presence on
the outer surface of the lipoprotein and the protrusion from the outer surface of the
lipoprotein.    In the embodiment, cholesterol incorporated into the lipoprotein is

                                             7
detected by bonding the tag exposed on the outer surface and the capture body which
specifically binds to the tag.  Each step in the measuring method of the present
embodiment will now be described.
[0014]
         In the measuring method of the embodiment, a lipoprotein in a sample, a
tagged cholesterol, and an antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein are firstly
contacted to form a complex containing the lipoprotein, the tagged cholesterol
incorporated into the lipoprotein, and the antibody.
[0015]
         In the embodiment, the sample is not particularly limited as long as the sample
contains a lipoprotein of mammals, preferably, of human.     Examples of the sample
include blood samples such as blood, serum and plasma.
[0016]
         The lipoprotein to be measured in the embodiment may be HDL, LDL,
intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), or
chylomicron (CM).      HDL is the lipoprotein having a density of 1.063 g/mL or more.
LDL is the lipoprotein having a density of 1.019 g/mL or more and less than 1.063 g/mL.
IDL is the lipoprotein having a density of 1.006 g/mL or more and less than 1.019 g/mL.
VLDL is the lipoprotein having a density of 0.95 g/mL or more and less than 1.006
g/mL.    CM is the lipoprotein having a density of less than 0.95 g/mL.
[0017]
         In the measuring method of the present embodiment, the blood sample can be
separated by any known method including ultracentrifugal separation or polyethylene
glycol (PEG) precipitation method to obtain a fraction containing a selected lipoprotein.
[0018]

                                               8
          In the embodiment, the blood sample and the selected fraction of lipoprotein
can be diluted with an aqueous medium, and the resulting diluted liquid is used as the
sample for adjusting the lipoprotein concentration.     Examples of the aqueous medium
include water, and a buffer including a physiological saline, a phosphate buffered saline
(PBS), and Tris-HCl.     Since the indicator of the lipoprotein concentration in the sample
is the concentration of the main component of the lipoprotein, ApoAl, in the
embodiment, a part of the sample may be taken and measured for the ApoAl
concentration by any known immunoassay (for example, immunonephelometry).               The
lipoprotein concentration in the sample can be adjusted based on the measured ApoAl
concentration.
[0019]
          For example, a blocking agent such as bovine serum albumin (BSA) or
liposome may optionally be added to the sample.        Since it is known that the lipoprotein
incorporates cholesterol after the esterification of cholesterol, a fatty acid or a
composition containing thereof (for example, liposome) required for the esterification
reaction of cholesterol by the lipoprotein may be added to the sample.
[0020]
          In the embodiment, the tagged cholesterol is used as cholesterol incorporated
into the lipoprotein.  The tagged cholesterol refers to the cholesterol in which a tag is
bound directly or indirectly via a linker at any position of alkyl chains (at C20-C27)
which is bound at C17 of the naturally occurring cholesterol.       The cholesterol moiety
of the tagged cholesterol may have the structure of the naturally occurring cholesterol,
or may have the structure of the cholesterol in which one or more methylene group
and/or methyl group is eliminated from alkyl chains which is bound at C17 of the
naturally occurring cholesterol (also referred to as norcholesterol).

                                                 9
[0021]
           The tag added to cholesterol is not particularly limited as long as it does not
inhibit the incorporation of cholesterol by the lipoprotein and a material which can be
specifically bound to the tag (it is the same as "the capture body which specifically
binds to the tag" as described below) is present or obtained.
[0022]
           As described above, since the lipoprotein incorporates cholesterol after the
esterification of cholesterol, more preferably, the tagged cholesterol which is esterified
with the lipoprotein is used.      In the method of the embodiment, the tagged cholesterol
is esterified by lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), in the sample when it
contacts with the sample.        The method for confirming the esterification of the tagged
cholesterol by the lipoprotein is known in the art, and the method can be routinely
performed by those skilled in the art.
[0023]
           In the embodiment, the tag may be a naturally occurring material or a
synthesized material.        Examples of the tag include a compound, a peptide, a protein, a
nucleic acid, and combination thereof. The compound may be any known label
compound in the art as long as a material which can be specifically bound to the
compound is present or obtained.         An example of the compound is a coloring
compound.
[0024]
           In the art, it is known that the liposolubility of cholesterol is increased by the
esterification of cholesterol, and the incorporation of cholesterol by the lipoprotein is
facilitated.    The tag added to cholesterol may be a liposoluble material or a
hydrophobic material.

                                              10
[0025]
         Examples of the combination of the tag and the material which can be
specifically bound to the tag include an antigen and an antibody which recognizes the
antigen; a hapten and an anti-hapten antibody; a peptide or a protein and an aptamer
which recognizes them; a ligand and its receptor; an oligonucleotide and an
oligonucleotide having the complementary strand; biotin and avidin (or streptavidin); a
histidine tag (a peptide containing a histidine of 6 to 10 residues) and nickel; and
glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione.       The antigen as the tag may be a
peptide tag and a protein tag known in the art.    Examples of the antigen include
FLAG*, hemagglutinin (HA), Myc protein, and green fluorescent protein (GFP).
Example of the hapten as the tag includes 2,4-dinitrophenol.
[0026]
         Example of the tag includes the tag having the structure represented by the
following formula (I):
[0027]
[Chemical Formula 2]
        CN,           0,N
               F    F
or the tag having the structure represented by the following formula (II).
[0028]
[Chemical Formula 3]

                                              11
                0
        HN           NH
      H \H                          (II)
           The structure represented by the formula (I) is boron dipyrromethene
(BODIPY*) backbone.         The structure represented by the formula (II) shows a part of
biotin.    The tagged cholesterol containing the structure represented by the formula (I)
or (II) is preferred because capture bodies against the tags are generally available.  The
tagged cholesterol having 2,4-dinitrophenyl (DNP) group is also preferred because the
anti-DNP antibody is commercially available.
[0029]
           Example of the tagged cholesterol includes the tagged cholesterol represented
by the following formula (III):
[0030]
[Chemical Formula 4]
                                          R1-4X-       t  L+ -Y-}- TAG
                                                                                 (III)
                           H         H
    HOO.C
wherein R1 is an alkylene group having I to 6 carbon atoms, which may have a methyl

                                                12
group,
          X and Y are identical or different and each represents -R 2-NH-, -NH-R 2-,
-R 2 -(C=O)-NH-, -(C=O)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=O)-, -NH-(C=O)-R 2 -, -R 2 -(C=O)-,
-(C=O)-R 2-, -R 2-(C=O)-O-, -(C=O)-O-R 2-, -R 2 -0-(C=O)-, -O-(C=O)-R 2-,
-R 2 -(C=S)-NH-, -(C=S)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=S)-, -NH-(C=S)-R 2 -, -R 2 -0-, -O-R 2 -,
-R2-S-, or -S-R 2-, wherein each R 2 is independently an atomic bonding; an alkylene
group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, which may have a substituent group; an arylene
group or a heteroarylene group having 6 to 12 carbon atoms, each of which may have a
substituent group; or a cycloalkylene group or a heterocycloalkylene group having 3 to
8 carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent group;
          L represents -(CH 2)d-[R 3 -(CH 2)e]f or -[(CH2)e-R3]r(CH2)d-, wherein R 3 is an
 oxygen atom, a sulfur atom, -NH-, -NH-(C=O)-, or -(C=0)-NH-;
          TAG is a tag;
          a and c are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 6;
          b is 0 or 1;
          d and e are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 12; and
f is an integer of 0 to 24.
[0031]
          In the formula (III), when a, b and c are all 0, the tagged cholesterol
represented by the formula has no linker, and the tag and the cholesterol moiety are
bonded directly.     In the formula (III), when any one of a, b and c is not 0, the tagged
cholesterol represented by the formula has a linker (-[X]a-[L]b-[Y]c-) between the tag
and the cholesterol moiety.     It is believed that the linker facilitates the bonding
between the tag exposed on the outer surface of the lipoprotein and the capture body.
Each substituent group in the formula (III) will now be described.

                                              13
[0032]
         R1 has an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms as the main chain, and
may have a methyl group at any position.       R1 corresponds to the alkyl chain which is
bound at C17 of the naturally occurring cholesterol.     In the embodiment, when R1 has
1 to 5 carbon atoms, preferred R1 has a methyl group at C20 of the naturally occurring
cholesterol.   When R1 has 6 carbon atoms, preferred R1 has the same structures as
alkyl chains at C20-C27 of the naturally occurring cholesterol.
[0033]
         [X]a corresponds to a connecting moiety between R1 and L, [Y]c or the tag.
[Y]c corresponds to a connecting moiety between R 1, [X]a or L and the tag.      X and Y
are determined depending on the type of reaction bonding between the cholesterol
moiety and the linker and the type of reaction bonding between the linker and the tag.
[0034]
         In R2 , the atomic bonding refers to the direct bonding without intervening any
other atom.   When R 2 is an alkylene group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, examples of
the alkylene group include methylene, ethylene, propylene, isopropylene, butylene,
isobutylene, pentylene, neopentylene, hexylene, heptylene, octylene, 2-ethylhexylene,
nonylene, and decylene group.       Among them, an alkylene group having 1 to 4 carbon
atoms is preferred.     When R 2 is an alkylene group having a substituent group, the
number of the carbon atoms as described above does not include that of the carbon
atoms in the substituent group.
[0035]
         When R2 is an arylene group or a heteroarylene group, the group may be an
aromatic ring having 6 to 12 carbon atoms which may include one or more hetero atoms
selected from N, S, 0, and P. Examples of the group include phenylene, naphthylene,

                                             14
biphenylylene, furanylene, pyrrolene, thiophenylene, triazolene, oxadiazolene,
pyridylene, and pyrimidylene group.      When R 2 is an arylene group or a heteroarylene
group having a substituent group, the number of the carbon atoms as described above
does not include that of the carbon atoms in the substituent group.
[0036]
         When R 2 is a cycloalkylene group or a heterocycloalkylene group, the group
may be a non-aromatic ring having 3 to 8 carbon atoms which may include one or more
hetero atoms selected from N, S, 0, and P.     Examples of the group include
cyclopropylene, cyclobutylene, cyclopentylene, cyclohexylene, cycloheptylene,
cyclooctylene, pyrrolidinylene, piperidinylene, and morpholinylene.      When R 2 is a
cycloalkylene group or a heterocycloalkylene group having a substituent group, the
number of the carbon atoms as described above does not include that of the carbon
atoms in the substituent group.
[0037]
         Examples of the substituent group in R 2 include hydroxyl, cyano, alkoxy, =0,
=S, -NO 2 , -SH, halogen, haloalkyl, heteroalkyl, carboxyalkyl, amine, amide, and
thioether group.    R 2 may have a plurality of the substituent groups.  Halogen
represents fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine.    Alkoxy represents -0-alkyl group.
The alkyl group is a linear or branched saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 1
to 5 carbon atoms, preferably 1 or 2 carbon atoms.
[0038]
         Preferably, a and c are both 1, X and Y are identical or different and each
represents -(C=O)-NH- or -NH-(C=O)-.
[0039]
         L corresponds to a spacer which has a polymer structure that adds a

                                               15
predetermined length to the linker.     The preferred polymer structure moiety has
properties that do not inhibit the incorporation of cholesterol by the lipoprotein and the
preferred linker has properties that has difficulty in the incorporation of the linker into
the lipoprotein.   Example of the polymer includes a hydrophilic polymer such as
polyethylene glycol (PEG).      In a preferred embodiment, L is a structure represented by
-(CH2)d-[O-(CH2)ejf- or -[(CH2)e-O]f-(CH2)d-. d and e are identical or different and each
represents an integer of 0 to 12, preferably an integer of 2 to 6, and more preferably d
and e are both 2. f is an integer of 0 to 24, preferably an integer of 2 to 11, and more
preferably an integer of 4 to 11.
[0040]
         Example of the tagged cholesterol without the linker includes a fluorescently
labeled cholesterol (23-(dipyrromethene boron difluoride)-24-norcholesterol)
represented by the following formula (IV):
[0041]
[Chemical Formula 5]
                                                                  F
                                                                 N
                                                              \                         )
   HO

                                              16
          The fluorescently labeled cholesterol is commercially available (Trade Name
TopFluor Cholesterol, CAS No: 878557-19-8, Avanti Polar Lipids, Inc.).         In the tagged
cholesterol represented by the following formula (IV), the tag (the fluorescent moiety
having BODIPY backbone structure) is directly bonded at C23 of cholesterol.          As an
example of the capture body which specifically binds to the fluorescent moiety having
BODIPY backbone structure, an anti-BODIPY antibody (BODIPY FL Rabbit IgG
Fraction, A-5770, Life technologies Corporation) is commercially available.
[0042]
          Example of the tagged cholesterol in which the tag is bound via a linker
includes a biotin-tagged cholesterol represented by the following formula (V):
[0043]
[Chemical Formula 6]
                                       O0
                                   NH       O--       NH0
                                                                             H     H
                                                                         HN     NH
                       H
               H0
   HO
wherein, n is an integer of 0 to 24, preferably an integer of 2 to 11, and more preferably
an integer of 4 to 11.   In the tagged cholesterol, the tag (the biotin moiety represented
by the formula (II)) is bonded to the cholesterol moiety via the linker (polyethylene
glycol).   A suitable capture body which specifically binds to the biotin moiety is avidin
or streptavidin.   An avidin or streptavidin bound to a label such as horseradish
peroxidase (HRP) or alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is also commercially available.
[0044]

                                             17
         Example of the tagged cholesterol includes DNP-tagged cholesterol
represented by the following formula (VI):
[0045]
[Chemical Formula 7]
                                            "H NA\,         jH
                                                             '02)
                                                                NOO
                   A      H
    He'                                                         NO2
         In the tagged cholesterol, DNP is bound to the cholesterol moiety via the linker
(-(C=O)-NH-CH 2-CH 2 -NIH-).      A suitable capture body which specifically binds to
DNP is an anti-DNP antibody.       An anti-DNP antibody bound to a label such as HRP or
ALP is also commercially available.
[0046]
         Although the bonding form of the cholesterol moiety and the tag is not
particularly limited, the cholesterol moiety and the tag may be bonded, or the
cholesterol moiety and the tag may be bonded via a linker.     Although the bonding
means is not particularly limited, for example, a crosslink by utilizing a functional
group is preferred because it is convenient.   Although the functional group is not
particularly limited, an amino group, a carboxyl group and a sulfhydryl group are
preferred because commercially available crosslinkers can be used.
[0047]
          Since cholesterol has no functional group in the alkyl chain bonded at C17, the
cholesterol derivative having a functional group in the alkyl chain is preferably used for
the addition of the tag.   Examples of the cholesterol derivative include a precursor of

                                              18
bile acid and a precursor of steroids.    Specific preferred examples of the cholesterol
derivative include 3p-hydroxy-A5-cholenoic acid, 24-amino-5-colen-3p-ol.          The
functional group of the tag varies depending on the type of the tag.    For example, when
a peptide or a protein is used as the tag, an amino group, a carboxyl group and a
sulfhydryl group (SH group) can be used.       When biotin is used as the tag, a carboxyl
group in the side chain can be used.     The preferred linker is a polymer compound
having functional groups at both terminals.      When biotin is added as the tag, a
commercially available biotin labeling agent can be used.      The reagent contains biotin
to which various length of spacer arms (for example, PEG) having a functional group
such as an amino group at the terminal are bound.
[0048]
         Exemplary crosslink reaction of the functional group will be described below.
A compound having an amino group as the functional group can crosslink with a
compound having N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) ester or an isothiocyano group as the
reactive group (see the following Figure).     For example, when cholesterol having an
amino group and a tag having an amino group are crosslinked, a crosslink reagent or a
linker having NHS esters at both terminals can be used.
[0049]
[Chemical Formula 8]
Reaction of an NHS ester with an amino group
    R+                       R'- NH2                        N-R       +
                                                            H                     0
              0
     X=HorSOS3Na
Reaction of an isothiocyano group with an amino group

                                                19
                                                         H     H
       R-N=C=S        +      R'-NH2       -R-N\            CN-R'
                                                            S
[0050]
          A compound having a carboxyl group as the functional group is firstly reacted
with a compound having a carbodiimide group (-N=C=N-). (See the following Figure.
In the Figure, reacted with 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide
hydrochloride.) Then the mixture is reacted with NHS to form the unstable NHS ester.
Then the ester can be reacted with a compound having an amino group to crosslink with
the compound having a carboxyl group.        For example, when cholesterol having a
carboxyl group and a tag having an amino group are crosslinked, they can crosslink in
the method.    When cholesterol having a carboxyl group and a tag having a carboxyl
group are crosslinked, a crosslink reagent or a linker having amino groups at both
terminals can be used.
[0051]
[Chemical Formula 9]
(First step)
                              HN*-                        NM.
                                                            NH
                                                             NH
(Second step)

                                              20
          R
                       +       HOjIS
                               H0
                 NH0
                              X = H or SO03Na
(Third step)
            o                                             0
       R+                      R'- NH2                R     N-R      +       HO
[0052]
         A compound having a sulfhydryl group as the functional group can crosslink
with a compound having a maleimide group or bromo (or iodo) acetamide group as the
reactive group (see the following Figure).     When cholesterol having a sulfhydryl group
and a tag having a sulfhydryl group are crosslinked, a crosslink reagent or a linker
having maleimide at both terminals can be used.
[0053]
[Chemical Formula 10]
Reaction of a maleimide group with a sulfhydryl group
        0                                            0      S R'
     R.-+                 R'-SH        -R"
           0
Reaction of a bromo (iodo) acetamide group with a sulfhydryl group

                                                21
         R- N--7           +      R'-SH                 *      R    -      S     +
                   0                                                  0
            X-= Brori
[0054]
           These crosslink reactions can be performed under ordinary temperature and
normal pressure.       The solvent used in the reaction is not particularly limited as long as
it is inert for the reactions, and it can dissolve or disperse each compound added in the
reaction.     Examples of the solvent includes aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene,
toluene, and xylene; ethers such as diethylether, tetrahydrofuran, ethylene glycol
dimethyl ether, and 1,4-dioxane; amides such as N,N-dimethylformamide; a sulfoxide
such as dimethyl sulfoxide; halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane and
chloroform.      The solvent can be used alone or the mixture of the solvent can be used.
[0055]
           In the embodiment, the antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein
(hereinafter, also referred to as "anti-lipoprotein antibody") is not particularly limited as
long as it is an antibody which can be specifically bound to a part of the surface of the
lipoprotein.     Preferably, the antibody is the antibody which can be specifically bound
to the apolipoprotein, which is a component of the lipoprotein.        Examples of the
antibody include an anti-ApoAl antibody and an anti-ApoAII antibody.            Among them,
an anti-ApoAl antibody is particularly preferred.        In the embodiment, a commercially
available anti-lipoprotein antibody and anti-ApoAl antibody can be used.
[0056]
           The anti-lipoprotein antibody may be a monoclonal antibody or a polyclonal
antibody.     The origin of the antibody is not particularly limited, and the antibody may

                                             22
be an antibody originated from mammal such as mouse, rat, hamster, rabbit, goat, horse,
and camel.    The isotype of the antibody may be IgG, IgM, IgE, or IgA, and IgG is
preferred.   In the embodiment, as the anti-lipoprotein antibody, the fragment and
derivative thereof can be used.    Examples include the Fab fragment and the F(ab')2
fragment.
[0057]
         When the anti-ApoAl antibody is used as the anti-lipoprotein antibody, the
lipoprotein in which the tagged cholesterol is incorporated may be treated with an
oxidant before the lipoprotein is contacted with the anti-ApoAl antibody.      The action
of the oxidant can improve the reactivity of the anti-ApoAl antibody and the lipoprotein.
Examples of the oxidant include hydrogen peroxide, peroxynitrite, chlorine dioxide, and
hypochlorous acid.
[0058]
         In the embodiment, contacting the lipoprotein in the sample, the tagged
cholesterol, and the anti-lipoprotein antibody can be performed by mixing the sample
containing the lipoprotein, the tagged cholesterol solution, and the anti-lipoprotein
antibody solution, for example.    After mixing, the lipoprotein starts to incorporate the
tagged cholesterol, and a complex of the lipoprotein in which the tagged cholesterol is
incorporated and the anti-lipoprotein antibody is formed.
[0059]
         The order of contacting the lipoprotein in the sample, the tagged cholesterol,
and the anti-lipoprotein antibody is not particularly limited.  They may be mixed
simultaneously or sequentially.    In the embodiment, preferably, the lipoprotein and the
tagged cholesterol are firstly mixed and the tagged cholesterol is incorporated into the
lipoprotein, and then the anti-lipoprotein antibody is contacted with them.     If the

                                              23
tagged cholesterol and anti-lipoprotein antibody is firstly contacted, the tagged
cholesterol bound to the anti-lipoprotein antibody may have difficulty in the
incorporation of the cholesterol into the lipoprotein.
[0060]
          In the embodiment, although the added amount of the tagged cholesterol is not
particularly limited, some excess of the tagged cholesterol may be added so that the
tagged cholesterol is not depleted.    For example, the tagged cholesterol can be added to
the sample so that the final concentration is from 0.1 to 30 pm, and preferably from 1 to
10 pm.     The added amount of the anti-lipoprotein antibody is not particularly limited,
and the amount can be suitably selected depending on the type of the antibody and the
like by those skilled in the art.
[0061]
          Although the temperature and time for contacting is not particularly limited,
the mixed liquid of the sample, the tagged cholesterol, and the anti-lipoprotein antibody
can be incubated at 20-48'C, preferably at 25-42'C for 1 minute to 24 hours, preferably
10 minutes to 2 hours.     During the incubation, the mixed liquid may be left to stand, or
stirred or shaken.
[0062]
          When the lipoprotein and the tagged cholesterol are firstly mixed, the mixed
liquid can be incubated at 20-48'C, preferably at 25-42'C for 1 minute to 24 hours,
preferably 10 minutes to 2 hours.     After that, the anti-lipoprotein antibody is added to
the mixed liquid, and can be incubated at 20-48'C, preferably at 25-42'C for 1 minute
to 24 hours, preferably 10 minutes to 2 hours.      During the incubation, the mixed liquid
may be left to stand, or stirred or shaken.
[0063]

                                              24
         In the embodiment, the complex of the lipoprotein in which the tagged
cholesterol is incorporated and the anti-lipoprotein antibody may form on the solid
phase.   In the case, for example, the sample containing the lipoprotein, the tagged
cholesterol solution, the anti-lipoprotein antibody solution and the solid phase may be
contacted.    Alternatively, after the sample containing the lipoprotein, the tagged
cholesterol solution and the anti-lipoprotein antibody solution are mixed, the resulting
mixed liquid and the solid phase may be contacted.      Alternatively, the anti-lipoprotein
antibody which was previously fixed on the solid phase may be used.         For example,
the complex can be formed on the solid phase by contacting the solid phase having
fixed anti-lipoprotein antibody with a mixed liquid of the sample containing the
lipoprotein and the tagged cholesterol solution.    Although the temperature and time of
contacting is not particularly limited, for example, the similar conditions as in the step
of forming the complex as described above.
[0064]
         The preferred solid phase is the solid phase being capable of capturing the
anti-lipoprotein antibody in the complex.     The type of the solid phase is not
particularly limited, and examples of the solid phase include a solid phase made by a
physically adsorbing material of the antibody, and a solid phase having a fixed molecule
which specifically binds to the antibody.     Examples of the molecule which specifically
binds to the antibody include protein A or G, and an antibody which specifically
recognizes the antibody (i.e., a secondary antibody).    Also, the combination of the
material intervening between the antibody and the solid phase may be used to bond
between them.     Examples of the combination include a combination of biotin and
avidin (or streptavidin); and a combination of a hapten and an anti-hapten antibody.
For example, when the anti-lipoprotein antibody was previously modified with biotin,

                                              25
the solid phase having fixed avidin or streptavidin can capture the antibody.
[0065]
          As materials for the solid phase, an organic polymer compound, an inorganic
compound, a biopolymer, and the like can be selected.      Examples of the organic
polymer compound include a latex, polystyrene, polypropylene, styrene-methacrylic
acid copolymer, styrene-glycidyl (meta)acrylate copolymer, styrene-styrene sulfonate
copolymer, methacrylic acid polymer, acrylic acid polymer, acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene copolymer, vinyl chloride -acrylate ester copolymer, and polyvinyl acetate
acrylate.   Examples of the inorganic compound include magnetic materials (iron oxide,
chromic oxide, cobalt and ferrite), silica, alumina, and glass.  Examples of the
biopolymer include insoluble agarose, insoluble dextran, gelatin, and cellulose.    Two
or more of these materials may be used in combination therewith.      The shape of the
solid phase is not particularly limited, and examples of the shape include a particle, a
microplate, a microtube, and a test tube.    Among them, a microplate and a particle are
preferred.    A 96-well microplate and a magnetic particle are particularly preferred.
[0066]
          In the embodiment, the B/F separation step for removing an unreacted free
component which has not formed the complex may be performed after the step of
forming the complex as described above and before the step of labeling the complex as
described below.    The unreacted free component refers to a component which is not
the component of the complex.       Examples of the unreacted free component include a
free tagged cholesterol which was not incorporated into the lipoprotein, and a free
anti-lipoprotein antibody which did not bind to the lipoprotein.   Although the means of
the B/F separation is not particularly limited, the complex can be separated from the
unreacted free component by collecting the complex only, for example, with

                                               26
ultracentrifugal separation.    When the complex is formed on the solid phase, if the
solid phase is a particle, the complex can be separated from the unreacted free
component by collecting the particle capturing the complex only.        When the solid
phase is a container such as a microplate or a microtube, the complex can be separated
from the unreacted free component by removing a liquid containing the unreacted free
component.      After removing the unreacted free component, the collected complex may
be washed with a suitable aqueous medium such as PBS.
[0067]
          In the measuring method of the embodiment of the invention, the complex is
labelled by bonding the capture body which specifically binds to the tag and the label to
the produced complex.
[0068]
          The capture body which specifically binds to the tag may be suitably
determined depending on the type of the tag of the tagged cholesterol.       For example,
with reference to the combination of the tag and the material which can specifically bind
to the tag, the capture body can be selected from an antibody, a ligand receptor, an
oligonucleotide, biotin, avidin (or streptavidin), a histidine tag or nickel, GST or
glutathione.    Among them, the preferred capture body is an antibody which
specifically binds to the tag.   The antibody may be a commercially available antibody,
or an antibody produced by any method known in the art.         The antibody may be a
monoclonal antibody or a polyclonal antibody.        The origin and isotype of the antibody
is not particularly limited, and is similar to description about the anti-HDL antibody.
The fragment and derivative of the antibody can be used.        Examples include the Fab
fragment and the F(ab')2 fragment.
[0069]

                                             27
          As the label, a material which generates a signal (hereinafter, also referred to as
"signal generating material") and a material which generates a detectable signal by
catalyzing the reaction of other material can be used.    Exemplary examples of the
signal generating material include fluorescent material and radioisotope.      An example
of the material which generates a detectable signal by catalyzing the reaction of other
material is an enzyme.      Examples of the enzyme include peroxidase, alkaline
phosphatase,     -galactosidase, glucose oxidase, tyrosinase, acid phosphatase, and
luciferase.    Examples of the fluorescent material include a fluorochrome such as
fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), rhodamine, Alexa Fluor*, cyanine based colorant;
and a fluorescent protein such as GFP.     Examples of the radioisotope include    125  14C,
and  32P.   Among them, the preferred label is an enzyme, and peroxidase and alkaline
phosphatase are particularly preferred.
[0070]
          In a preferred embodiment, the complex is labeled by indirectly bonding the
label and the complex via the capture body which specifically binds to the tag.
Examples include binding the complex and the capture body which binds to the label, or
binding the label and the capture body which binds to the complex.       In this case, the
capture body which was previously bound to the label may be used, or a label which can
specifically bind to the capture body may be used.
[0071]
          For example, the capture body which was previously bound to the label can be
obtained by labeling the capture body which specifically binds to the tag with the label.
The method for labeling a material is known in the art.     When the capture body is an
antibody, the capture body may be labeled with a commercially available labeling kit.
Example of the label which can specifically bind to the capture body includes a labeled

                                             28
antibody which specifically recognizes the capture body (i.e., a secondary antibody).
[0072]
          Although the temperature and time conditions of the step of labeling are not
particularly limited, the mixture of the complex, the capture body which specifically
binds to the tag, and the label can be incubated at 4-60'C, preferably at 25-42'C for 1
second to 24 hours, preferably 10 minutes to 2 hours.      During the incubation, the
mixture may be left to stand, or stirred or shaken.
[0073]
          In the embodiment, the B/F separation step for removing an unreacted free
component which has not been bound to the complex may be performed after the step of
labeling the complex as described above and before the step of detecting the signal as
described below.     Examples of the unreacted free component include a free capture
body which did not bind to the tag, and a free label which did not bind to the capture
body.    The means of the B/F separation is not particularly limited, and is as similar as
described in the B/F separation performed after the step of forming the complex and
before the step of labeling the complex.
[0074]
          In the measuring method of the embodiment of the invention, a signal resulted
from the label which has been bound to the complex is detected. "Detect a signal"
includes detecting the presence or absence of the signal qualitatively, quantifying the
signal strength, and detecting the signal semi-quantitatively as a plurality of levels, for
example, "no signal", "weak", and "strong".      Since the signal reflects the amount of
the tagged cholesterol incorporated into the lipoprotein, the detecting result of the signal
is an indicator of the cholesterol uptake capacity of the lipoprotein.   Therefore, the
above measuring method can be called as the method for evaluating the cholesterol

                                             29
uptake capacity of the lipoprotein based on the lipoprotein in which the tagged
cholesterol is incorporated and the signal resulted from the complex with the
anti-lipoprotein antibody.
[0075]
          The method for detecting the signal resulted from the label is known in the art.
In the embodiment, a suitable measuring method can be selected depending on the type
of the signal resulted from the label.  For example, when the label is an enzyme, the
measuring method can be performed by measuring the signal such as light or color
generated by reacting the substrate for the enzyme with an instrument known in the art.
Examples of the instrument include spectrophotometer and luminometer.
[0076]
          The substrate for the enzyme can be suitably selected from known substrates
depending on the type of the enzyme.      For example, when peroxidase is used as the
enzyme, examples of the substrate include a chemiluminescent substrate such as
luminol and derivative thereof; and a chromogenic substance such as 2,2'-azinobis
(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6- sulfonic acid ammonium) (ABTS), 1,2-phenylene diamine
(OPD), 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB).       When alkaline phosphatase is used as
the enzyme, examples of the substrate include a chemiluminescent substrate such as
CDP-Star* (4-chloro-3-(methoxyspiro[1,2-dioxetane-3,
2'-(5'-chloro)tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]decane]-4-yl)phenyl phosphate disodium), CSPD*
(3-(4-methoxyspiro[1,2- dioxetane -3,2-(5'- chloro)tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7] decane]-4-yl)
phenyl phosphate disodium); and a chromogenic substance such as
5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphoric acid (BCIP), 5-bromo-6-chloro- indolyl
phosphate disodium, and p-nitrophenyl phosphoric acid.
[0077]

                                             30
         When the label is a radioisotope, the radiation as the signal can be measured by
using an instrument known in the art such as a scintillation counter. When the label is
a fluorescent material, the fluorescence as the signal can be measured by using an
instrument known in the art such as a fluorescence microplate reader.       The excitation
wavelength and the fluorescent wavelength can be suitably determined depending on
the type of the fluorescent material used.
[0078]
         In a further embodiment, the result of the cholesterol uptake capacity of the
lipoprotein obtained from the measuring method may be utilized for diagnosing whether
the subject has dyslipidemia or not.    That is, a method for assisting the diagnosis of
dyslipidemia comprising the following steps is provided:
         forming a complex by contacting a lipoprotein obtained from the subject, a
tagged cholesterol, and an antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein, the
complex containing the lipoprotein, the tagged cholesterol incorporated into the
lipoprotein, and the antibody;
         labeling the complex by bonding a capture body which specifically binds to the
tag and a label with the complex;
         detecting a signal resulted from the label which has been bound to the complex;
and
         obtaining information about dyslipidemia of the subject based on the result of
the step of detecting.
[0079]
         By collecting data of the measured signal obtained from the sample of the
healthy subject and the dyslipidemia patient according to the measuring method as
described above, a threshold value or a reference range for the cholesterol uptake

                                              31
capacity of lipoprotein can be determined.     By comparing the threshold value or the
reference range with the measured signal when the specimen of the subject is used,
information about dyslipidemia of the subject, that is, information whether the
cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoprotein of the subject is normal or within the
reference range can be obtained.     Based on the information, the diagnosis whether the
subject has dyslipidemia or not can be assisted.
[0080]
         The reagent kit used for the measuring method as described above is
encompassed in the scope of the present invention.     That is, provided is the reagent kit
for measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins (hereinafter, referred to as
simply "reagent kit"), comprising a tagged cholesterol; an antibody which specifically
binds to the lipoprotein (an anti-lipoprotein antibody); a capture body which specifically
binds to the tag; and a label.  When the label is an enzyme, the reagent kit of the
present embodiment may further contain a substrate for the enzyme.
[0081]
         The form of the tagged cholesterol, the anti-lipoprotein antibody, the capture
body which specifically binds to the tag, the label, and the substrate is not particularly
limited.   The form may be solid (for example, powder, crystal, and lyophilized
product) or liquid (for example, solution, suspension, and emulsion).      In the
embodiment, preferably, the tagged cholesterol, the anti-lipoprotein antibody, the
capture body which specifically binds to the tag, the label, and the substrate are each
stored in a separate container, or are individually packaged.    The details of type and
handling of the sample, the tagged cholesterol, the antibody which specifically binds to
the lipoprotein, the capture body which specifically binds to the tag, the label, and the
substrate of the enzyme are similar to the description of the measuring method.       Fig.

                                               32
3A shows an example of an appearance of the reagent kit of the present embodiment.
In the Figure, 11 shows a first container containing the tagged cholesterol. 22 shows a
second container containing the anti-lipoprotein antibody. 33 shows a third container
containing the capture body which specifically binds to the tag. 44 shows a fourth
container containing the enzyme as the label. 55 shows a fifth container containing the
chemiluminescent substrate for the enzyme.
[0082]
          The reagent kit may further contain a solid phase for fixing the anti-lipoprotein
antibody.    In this case, preferably, the tagged cholesterol, the anti-lipoprotein antibody,
the capture body which specifically binds to the tag, the label, the substrate, and the
solid phase are each stored in a separate container, or are individually packaged.       Fig.
3B shows an example of an appearance of the reagent kit including the solid phase.
The detail of the solid phase is similar to the description of the measuring method.       In
the Figure, 66 shows a 96-well microplate as the solid phase.
[0083]
          In the embodiment, the anti-lipoprotein antibody, preferably the anti-ApoAl
antibody, may be previously fixed on the solid phase.       In the case, the reagent kit may
be composed of the tagged cholesterol, the capture body which specifically binds to the
tag, the label, the substrate, the solid phase, and the anti-lipoprotein antibody fixed on
the solid phase.    Fig. 3C shows an example of an appearance of the reagent kit.        In the
Figure, 11 shows a first container containing the tagged cholesterol. 22 shows a second
container containing the capture body which specifically binds to the tag. 33 shows a
third container containing the enzyme as the label. 44 shows a fourth container
containing the chemiluminescent substrate for the enzyme. 66 shows a solid phase
(96-well microplate) for fixing an antibody which binds to a lipoprotein.

                                               33
[0084]
         In the embodiment, the label may be previously bound to the capture body
which specifically binds to the tag (the resulting capture body is also referred to as
"labeled capture body").     In the case, the reagent kit may be composed of the tagged
cholesterol, the anti-lipoprotein antibody, the labeled capture body, the substrate, and
the solid phase.   Fig. 3D shows an example of an appearance of the reagent kit.       In
the Figure, 11 shows a first container containing the tagged cholesterol. 22 shows a
second container containing the anti-lipoprotein antibody. 33 shows a third container
containing the capture body bound to the enzyme as the label. 44 shows a fourth
container containing the chemiluminescent substrate for the enzyme. 66 shows a solid
phase (96-well microplate).
[0085]
         Further, the anti-lipoprotein antibody, preferably the anti-ApoAl antibody, may
be previously fixed on the solid phase.     In the case, the reagent kit may be composed
of the tagged cholesterol, the labeled capture body, the substrate, and the
anti-lipoprotein antibody fixed on the solid phase.     Fig. 3E shows an example of an
appearance of the reagent kit.    In the Figure, 11 shows a first container containing the
tagged cholesterol. 22 shows a second container containing the capture body bound to
the enzyme as the label. 33 shows a fourth container containing the chemiluminescent
substrate for the enzyme. 66 shows a solid phase (96-well microplate) for fixing an
antibody which binds to a lipoprotein.
[0086]
         Fig. 3F shows an example of an appearance of the reagent kit using particles as
the solid phase.   In the Figure, a first container containing the tagged cholesterol is
shown. 22 shows a second container containing the capture body which binds to the

                                              34
enzyme as the label. 33 shows a third container containing a particle for fixing an
antibody which binds to a lipoprotein. 44 shows a fourth container containing the
chemiluminescent substrate for the enzyme.
[0087]
          The reagent kit may optionally further contain an aqueous medium for diluting
the sample, a blocking agent, a fatty acid and a composition containing thereof for the
esterification of cholesterol, an oxidant, and the like as a separate reagent.   The details
of them are similar to description about the measuring method of the present
embodiment.
[0088]
          The containers and solid phases containing reagents as described above can be
packaged in a box for providing users.      The box may include all the reagents and the
solid phases, or a part thereof only.  The box may further have a pack insert which
describes how to use the reagent, and the like.
[0089]
          The use of various reagent as described above for producing the reagent kit for
measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins is also encompassed in the
scope of the present invention.    That is, the present invention also relates to the use of
the tagged cholesterol, the antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein
(anti-lipoprotein antibody), capture body which specifically binds to the tag, and the
label for producing the reagent kit for measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of
lipoproteins.   When the label is an enzyme, a substrate for the enzyme may be further
used.    The solid phase may be further used.     The anti-lipoprotein antibody may be
fixed on the solid phase.
[0090]

                                               35
          The tagged cholesterol is encompassed in the scope of the present invention.
That is, the tagged cholesterol represented by the following formula (III) is provided:
[Chemical Formula 11]
                                           R1-E X -}; L-h;-Y+- TAG
                                                                                   (III)
                                HH
  HO
wherein R1 is an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which may have a methyl
group,
X and Y are identical or different and each represents -R 2-NH-, -NH-R 2-,
-R 2 -(C=O)-NH-, -(C=O)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=O)-, -NH-(C=O)-R 2 -, -R 2 -(C=O)-,
-(C=O)-R 2-, -R 2-(C=O)-O-, -(C=O)-O-R 2-, -R 2-0-(C=O)-, -O-(C=O)-R 2-,
-R 2 -(C=S)-NH-, -(C=S)-NI-R     2-, -R 2-NI-(C=S)-, -NH-(C=S)-R 2 -, -R 2 -0-, -O-R 2 -,
-R2-S-, or -S-R 2 -, wherein each R 2 is independently an atomic bonding; an alkylene
group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, which may have a substituent group; an arylene
group or a heteroarylene group having 6 to 12 carbon atoms, each of which may have a
substituent group; or a cycloalkylene group or a heterocycloalkylene group having 3 to
8 carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent group;
L represents -(CH2)d-[R3-(CH2)e]f- or -[(CH2)e-R3]-(CH2)d-, wherein R 3 is an oxygen
atom, a sulfur atom, -NH-, -NH-(C=O)-, or -(C=0)-NH-;
TAG is a tag;
          a and c are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 6;

                                                36
           b is 0 or 1;
           d and e are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 12; and
           f is an integer of 0 to 24.
[0091]
           The tagged cholesterol is suitable for use in the measuring method of the
present embodiment.        The detail of the tagged cholesterol represented by the formula
(III) is similar to description about the measuring method of the present embodiment.
[0092]
           Although the present invention will be described in the EXAMPLES in detail,
the present invention is not limited to the EXAMPLES.
EXAMPLES
[0093]
EXAMPLE 1
           In EXAMPLE 1, whether the cholesterol uptake capacity of HDL can be
measured or not was studied by forming a complex of a tagged cholesterol incorporated
into HDL and an antibody for capturing HDL on a solid phase and detecting the tag of
the tagged cholesterol incorporated into HDL.
[0094]
(1.1) Extraction of HDL fraction
           The serum (0.1 ml) from healthy persons (n=3) was mixed with the equal
amount of 22% polyethylene glycol 4000 (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.) to
obtain a suspension.      After the suspension was left at room temperature for 20 minutes,
and centrifuged at 3000 rpm, at room temperature for 15 minutes.         Each supernatant
was collected as the HDL fraction.        The HDL fractions obtained from the serum of
three healthy persons were mixed, the resulting mixture (hereinafter, also referred to as

                                            37
"normal specimen") was stored at 4'C.      The serum of dyslipidemia patients (n=4) was
also treated in the same way to collect the HDL fractions.    The HDL fractions obtained
from the serum of four patients were mixed, the resulting mixture (hereinafter, also
referred to as "abnormal specimen") was stored at 4'C.     In EXAMPLE 1, the resulting
normal specimen and abnormal specimen were used as biological samples for the
following procedure.
[0095]
(1.2) Formation of Complex of HDL and Anti-ApoAl Antibody on Solid Phase
         (i) Preparation of Measuring Plate (Fixing of Anti-ApoAl Antibody to Solid
Phase)
         To each well of 96-well microplate (black plate H for fluorometry,
manufactured by Sumitomo Bakelite Co., Ltd.) as the solid phase was added 200 pl of
50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5) and washed.        The washing procedure was repeated twice
totally.  To each well was added 100 pl solution of anti-ApoAl antibody (clone 1C5,
Cat.   No.    MON05030, SanBio Company Limited) diluted to 10 pI/ml with 50 mM
Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), and left at 4'C longer than overnight.    The antibody solution was
removed, and 200 pl of PBS was added to each well and washed.         The washing
procedure was repeated three times totally.    To each well was added 200 pl of 2%
BSA/PBS, and shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 2 hours.
[0096]
         (ii) Preparation of Measuring Sample (Contacting HDL with Tagged
Cholesterol)
         A part of specimen was taken from the normal specimen and abnormal
specimen, and each of the ApoAl concentration was measured by using ApoAl
measuring kit (N-Assay TIAApoAI-H, NITTOBO MEDICAL Co., LTD.).                The

                                             38
ApoAl concentrations were 883 pg/ml for the normal specimen and 691 pg/ml for the
abnormal specimen.       The specific procedure for measuring the concentration was
performed according to the attached manual to the kit. After the measurement, the
normal specimen and abnormal specimen were diluted with a reaction buffer (PBS
containing 2% BSA and 2 mM liposome (manufactured by NIPPON FINE CHEMICAL
Co., LTD.) to prepare diluted liquids containing HDL fraction having an ApoAl
concentration of 0.05, 0.1, or 0.3 tg/ml.    As a reference specimen without HDL
fraction (ApoAl concentration is 0 pg/ml), the reaction buffer was used.     The
composition of the liposome contained in the reaction buffer is 2 mM dimyristoyl
phosphatidyl glycerol (DMPG), 2 mM cholesterol and 4 mM hydrogenated soybean
phosphatidylcoline (HSPC).       PBS was prepared by dissolving a phosphate buffered
saline tablet (Sigma-Aldrich) with water.
[0097]
         To the reaction buffer was added 0.5 mM BODIPY-tagged cholesterol
(TopFluor Cholesterol, Avanti Polar Lipids, Inc.) until the final concentration was 5 pm.
After that, the diluted liquids containing HDL fraction was added in a ratio of 1/100
based on the total amount.     The resulting mixture was shaken at 800 rpm, at 37'C for 2
hours.   To the resulting mixed liquid were added oxidants (8.8 M hydrogen peroxide,
1.76 mM sodium nitrite and 0.86 mM diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA)).
The final concentration of each component after adding oxidants are 1M for hydrogen
peroxide, 200 pm for sodium nitrite, and 100 pim for DTPA.       The solution was shaken
at 800 rpm, at 37'C for 1 hour to obtain a measuring sample containing HDL in which
BODIPY-tagged cholesterol was incorporated.
[0098]
         (iii) Formation of Complex of HDL in which Cholesterol is Incorporated and

                                              39
Anti-ApoAl Antibody
         BSA solution was removed from the plate in which the anti-ApoAl antibody
was fixed, and 100 pl solution of each measuring sample was added to each well.           The
plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 1 hour to form a complex of HDL and the
anti-ApoAl antibody.       In the EXAMPLE 1, two plates capturing the complex were
prepared.
[0099]
(1.3) Measurement of the Amount of the Captured Complex and Confirmation of the
Incorporation of Cholesterol by HDL
         In one of the two plates prepared in (1.2), 100 pl of 10 mM cyclodextrin/PBS
was added to each well, and the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 30 minutes.
The fluorescence intensity was measured by a fluorescence plate reader (Infinite* 200
Pro, manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.) (excitation at 485 nm/emission at           535 nm).
The cyclodextrin solution was removed from the plate after the measurement, and each
well was washed with PBS three times.        A goat anti-ApoAl serum of a kit for
measuring ApoAl (N-Assay TIA ApoAI-H, NITTOBO MEDICAL Co., LTD.) was
diluted with a blocking buffer (StartingBlock, Thermo Scientific) at a ratio of 1:1000,
and 100 pl of the resulting diluted liquid was added to each well.       After the plate was
shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 1 hour, the diluted liquid was removed, and each well
was washed with PBS three times.       A HRP labeled rabbit anti-goat IgG polyclonal
antibody (P0449, Dako) was diluted with a blocking buffer (StartingBlock, Thermo
Scientific) at a ratio of 1:1000, and 100 ptl of the resulting diluted liquid was added to
each well.    After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 1 hour, the diluted liquid
was removed, and each well was washed with PBS five times.            To each well was added
100 pl of a chemiluminescent substrate solution (SuperSignal ELISA Pico, 37069,

                                              40
Thermo Scientific).     After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 2 minutes, the
amount of luminescence was measured by a microplate reader (Infinite* F200 Pro,
manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.).
[0100]
(1.4) Measurement of the Amount of Cholesterol Incorporated into HDL by
Chemiluminescent
          The other of the two plates prepared in the (1.2) was washed with PBS five
times.   A rabbit anti-BODIPY antibody (BODIPY FL Rabbit IgG Fraction, A-5770,
Life technologies) was diluted with PBS at a ratio of 1:100, and 100 tl of the resulting
diluted liquid was added to each well.     After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C
for 1 hour, the diluted liquid was removed, and each well was washed with PBS five
times.   A HRP labeled goat anti-rabbit IgG polyclonal antibody (P0448, Dako) was
diluted with a blocking buffer (StartingBlock, Thermo Scientific) at a ratio of 1:1000,
and 100 pl of the resulting diluted liquid was added to each well.    After the plate was
shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 1 hour, the diluted liquid was removed, and each well
was washed with PBS five times.        To each well was added 100 pl of a
chemiluminescent substrate solution (SuperSignal ELISA Pico, 37069, Thermo
Scientific).   After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 2 minutes, the amount
of luminescence was measured by a microplate reader (Infinite* F200 Pro,
manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.).
[0101]
(1.5) Measuring Result and Discussion
          The result of sandwich ELISA method in (1.3) is shown in Fig. 1.      As shown
in Fig. 1, the amount of the complex captured on the plate in which the anti-ApoAl
antibody was fixed was increased depending on the ApoAl concentration in the

                                            41
measuring sample.      There was no significant difference of the amount of the captured
complex between the normal specimen and the abnormal specimen.           The fluorescence
intensity generated from BODIPY in the captured complex was increased depending on
the amount of the captured complex (not shown).       Therefore, the incorporation of the
BODIPY-tagged cholesterol into HDL was confirmed.          The amount of cholesterol
incorporated into HDL in the normal specimen was two times higher than that in the
abnormal specimen.
[0102]
          The result in sandwich ELISA method as described in (1.4) is shown in Fig. 2.
The graph in Fig. 2 shows a value obtained by subtracting the average of the amount of
luminescence of the reference specimen (background) from the average of the amount
of luminescence of the diluted liquid containing HDL fraction derived from the normal
specimen and the abnormal specimen.       As shown in Fig.2, the measured amount of
luminescence was increased depending on the amount of the captured complex.          Also,
the amount of cholesterol incorporated into HDL in the normal specimen was two times
higher than that in the abnormal specimen.    The result is similar to the measuring
result of the fluorescent generated from BODIPY-tagged cholesterol incorporated into
HDL.     The data shows that the cholesterol uptake capacity of HDL can be measured by
incorporating the tagged cholesterol into HDL and detecting the tag exposed on the
outer surface of HDL.
[0103]
EXAMPLE 2
          In EXAMPLE 2, cholesterol in which biotin is added via PEG as the linker was
prepared.    The synthesis scheme of the biotin-tagged cholesterol is shown as follows.
[0104]

                                                     42
[Chemical Formula 12]
(First step)
                                 N                                    N-)
                                      ~'   RT, 50min                    NH
                              rH
(Second step)
                                 HH            RTM 4
                                     0
          HK
(Third step)
                  c                                                   h    r     i0
                             orN   "     ,W                   DMF
                               +                  4     -~ii RT72h 11                      0N
[0105]
          A solution of 0.05 mmol of 3j3-hydroxy-A5-cholenoic acid (Tokyo Chemical
Industry Co., Ltd.) and 0.075 mmol of aqueous
carbodiimide(I1-ethyl-3 -(3 -dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide hydrochloride,
DOJESNDO LABORATORIES) in 0.5 ml of N, N-dimethylformamide (hereinafter, also
referred to "DMF", Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.) was stirred at room
temperature under Ar atmosphere for 50 minutes (first step).          To the resulting reaction
liquid was added a solution of 0.075 mmol of N-hydroxysuccinimide (Sigma) in 100 tl
of DMF, and stirred at room temperature under Ar atmosphere for 24 hours (second
step).   A solution of the starting material (3p-hydroxy-A5-cholenoic acid), the reaction

                                               43
liquid obtained in the first step, and the reaction liquid obtained in the second step were
individually spotted on a silica gel plate, and the plate was developed with a developing
solvent (hexane:tetrahydrofuran (THF)      = 5:5).   The Rf value of the starting material
was 0.6, that of the product in the first step was 0.55, and that of the product in the
second step was 0.5.
[0106]
         To the reaction liquid obtained in the second step was added a solution of 0.075
mmol of Biotin-PEG4-Amine (Biovision) in 100 pl of DMF, and stirred at room
temperature under Ar atmosphere for 72 hours or more (third step).        The reaction
liquid obtained in the second step, the reaction liquid obtained in the third step, and
mixed liquid thereof were individually spotted on a silica gel plate, and the plate was
developed with a developing solvent (chloroform:methanol:THF          = 9:1:1).   The Rf
value of the product in the third step (biotin-tagged cholesterol) was 0.3.     The
biotin-tagged cholesterol was collected by a thin layer chromatography.
[0107]
EXAMPLE 3
         The BODIPY-tagged cholesterol in EXAMPLE 1 and the biotin-tagged
cholesterol in EXAMPLE 2 were used to measure the cholesterol uptake capacity of
HDL, and observed the effect of the linker on the tagged cholesterol.
[0108]
(3.1) Sample
         The abnormal specimen prepared in EXAMPLE 1 was used as the sample
containing HDL fraction.
[0109]
(3.2) Formation of Complex of HDL and Anti-ApoAl Antibody on Solid Phase

                                              44
          (i) Preparation of Measuring Plate
          The anti-ApoAl antibody was fixed on 96-well microplate as similar to
EXAMPLE 1 to prepare a measuring plate.
[0110]
          (ii) Preparation of Measuring Sample
          The abnormal specimen was diluted with a reaction buffer (PBS) to prepare
diluted liquids containing HDL fraction having an ApoAl concentration of 0.1 pg/ml.
As a reference specimen without HDL fraction (ApoAl concentration is 0 pg/ml), the
reaction buffer was used.       PBS was prepared by dissolving a phosphate buffered saline
tablet (Sigma-Aldrich) with water.      To the reaction buffer was added 0.5 mM
biotin-tagged cholesterol until the final concentration was 5 pm.     After that, the diluted
liquids containing HDL fraction was added in a ratio of 1/100 based on the total amount.
The resulting mixture was shaken at 800 rpm, at 37'C for 2 hours to obtain a measuring
sample containing HDL in which biotin-tagged cholesterol was incorporated.
[0111]
          (iii) Formation of Complex of HDL in which Cholesterol is Incorporated and
Anti-ApoAl Antibody
          BSA solution was removed from the plate in which the anti-ApoAl antibody
was fixed, and 200      l solution of PBS was added to each well.   The washing procedure
was performed three times totally.      To each well was added 100 pl solution of each
measuring sample.       The plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 1 hour to form a
complex of HDL and the anti-ApoAl antibody.          In the EXAMPLE 3, one plate
capturing the complex was prepared.
[0112]
(3.3) Measurement of the Amount of Cholesterol Incorporated into HDL by

                                             45
Chemiluminescent
          The plate prepared in the (3.2) was washed with PBS five times.       HRP labeled
streptavidin (N 100, Life technologies) was diluted with a blocking buffer
(StartingBlock, Thermo Scientific) at a ratio of 1:3000, and 100 pl of the resulting
diluted liquid was added to each well.    After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C
for 1 hour, the diluted liquid was removed, and each well was washed with PBS five
times.   To each well was added 100 pl of a chemiluminescent substrate solution
(SuperSignal ELISA Pico, 37069, Thermo Scientific).         After the plate was shaken at
600 rpm, at 25'C for 2 minutes, the amount of luminescence was measured by a
microplate reader (Infinite* F200 Pro, manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.).
[0113]
(3.4) Measurement of the Amount of the Captured Complex
          After the measurement in (3.3), 200 pl of PBS was added to each well and
washed.     The washing procedure was performed three times totally.        A goat
anti-ApoAl serum of a kit for measuring ApoAl (N-Assay TIA ApoAI-H, NITTOBO
MEDICAL Co., LTD.) was diluted with a blocking buffer (StartingBlock, Thermo
Scientific) at a ratio of 1:1000, and 100 pl of the resulting diluted liquid was added to
each well.    After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C for 1 hour, the diluted liquid
was removed, and each well was washed with PBS three times.           A HRP labeled rabbit
anti-goat IgG polyclonal antibody (P0449, Dako) was diluted with a blocking buffer
(StartingBlock, Thermo Scientific) at a ratio of 1:1000, and 100 Pl of the resulting
diluted liquid was added to each well.    After the plate was shaken at 600 rpm, at 25'C
for 1 hour, the diluted liquid was removed, and each well was washed with PBS five
times.   To each well was added 100 pl of a chemiluminescent substrate solution
(SuperSignal ELISA Pico, 37069, Thermo Scientific).         After the plate was shaken at

                                              46
600 rpm, at 25'C for 2 minutes, the amount of luminescence was measured by a
microplate reader (Infinite* F200 Pro, manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.).
[0114]
(3.5) Measuring Result
          The measuring result in (3.4) could confirm that the formation of the complex
of HDL and the anti-ApoAl antibody on the plate (not shown).         The measuring result
in (3.3) is shown in Table 1 and Fig. 4.    In Table 1 and Fig. 4, the data relating to the
amount of BODIPY-tagged cholesterol incorporated into HDL in the diluted liquid
containing HDL fraction derived from the abnormal specimen in EXAMPLE 1 (ApoAI
concentration is 0.1 ptg/ml) and the reference specimen are arranged for the comparison.
Table 1 shows the average of the amount of luminescence (RLU) and SD of the diluted
liquid containing HDL fraction derived from the abnormal specimen and the reference
specimen.     The graph in Fig. 4 shows a value obtained by subtracting the average of
the amount of luminescence of the reference specimen (background) from the average
of the amount of luminescence of the diluted liquid containing HDL fraction derived
from the abnormal specimen.       In Fig. 1, "BODIPY" refers to BODIPY-tagged
cholesterol, "PEG4-Biotin" refers to the biotin-tagged cholesterol prepared in
EXAMPLE 2, and "abnormal specimen" refers to the diluted liquid containing HDL
fraction derived from the abnormal specimen (ApoAI concentration is 0.1 tg/ml).           In
Fig. 4, "no linker" shows BODIPY-tagged cholesterol, and "having linker" shows a
biotin-tagged cholesterol.

                                                   47
[0115]
[Table 1]
Tagged cholesterol            Reference antibody                  Abnormal specimen
                        The average               SD       The average              SD
BODIPY                     36460                 1578         45271                 920
PEG4-Biotin                 1970                 348          18880                 985
[0116]
          As shown in Table 1 and Fig. 4, the use of the biotin-tagged cholesterol having
the linker provided higher amount of luminescence than background.         Therefore, in the
measuring method of the present embodiment, it was shown that the use of the
biotin-tagged cholesterol having the linker allows to measure the cholesterol uptake
capacity of lipoproteins similar to BODIPY-tagged cholesterol.
[0117]
EXAMPLE 4
          Various cholesterol having biotin added via various length of PEG linker were
prepared.      These biotin-tagged cholesterol and BODYPI-tagged cholesterol in
EXAMPLE 1 are used to measure the cholesterol uptake capacity of HDL.
[0118]
(4.1) Preparation of biotin-tagged Cholesterol
          In the third step of EXAMPLE 2, various biotin-tagged cholesterol having
biotin added via various length of PEG linker were prepared in similar method as in
EXAMPLE 2, except that 0.075 mmol of EZ-Link T M Amine-PEG2-Biotin (Life
technologies), Biotin-PEG7-amine (BroadPharm),
0-(2-aminoethyl)-O'-[2-(biotinylamino)ethyl]octaethylene glycol (Sigma Ardrich), or
EZ-Link        Amine-PEG 11 -Biotin (Life technologies) was used instead of

                                             48
Biotin-PEG4-Amine.       The resulting biotin-tagged cholesterol corresponds to the
tagged cholesterol in the above formula (V) wherein n is 2, 7, 9, or 11.
[0119]
         According to the following synthetic scheme, the biotin-tagged cholesterol in
the above formula (V) wherein n is 3 was prepared.       Specifically, 4.2 pmol of
24-amino-5-colen-3 p-ol (synthesized by NARD INSTITUTE, LTD. on commission)
and 5.0 pmol of Biotin-PEG3-NHS ester (BPS Bioscience) were dissolved in 100 tl of
DMSO (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.), and stirred at room temperature under
Ar atmosphere for 72 hours.      The resulting reaction liquid was spotted on a silica gel
plate, and the biotin-tagged cholesterol was collected by a thin layer chromatography.
[0120]
[Chemical Formula 13]
                                                                      0
                                NH 2                                                S
                   H                           :NH                NH
                                             0                         M$1            H
            Ar,RT,72hY
                               H H
[0121]
In EXAMPLE 4, these biotin-tagged cholesterols are also referred to as PEG2-Biotin,
PEG3-Biotin, PEG4-Biotin, PEG7-Biotin, PEG9-Biotin and PEG1 1-Biotin depending
on the length of PEG linker.     Each Rf value of the biotin-tagged cholesterols and a
developing solvent used for the thin layer chromatography are shown in Table 2.

                                                49
[0122]
[Table 2]
 Biotin-tagged cholesterol                          Developing solvent          Rf value
 PEG2-Biotin                         Chloroform:methanol = 8:2                    0.7
 PEG3-Biotin                         Chloroform:methanol: THF = 9:2:1              0.45
 PEG4-Biotin                         Chloroform:methanol: THF = 9:1:1             0.3
 PEG7-Biotin                         Chloroform:methanol: THF = 9:1:1              0.25
 PEG9-Biotin                         Chloroform:methanol: THF = 6:2:4              0.25
 PEG11-Biotin                        Chloroform:methanol: THF = 9:1:1             0.2
[0123]
(4.2) Sample
           The abnormal specimen prepared in EXAMPLE 1 was used as the sample
containing HDL fraction.
[0124]
(4.3) Formation of Complex of HDL and Anti-ApoAl Antibody on Solid Phase
           (i) Preparation of Measuring Plate
           The anti-ApoAl antibody was fixed on 96-well microplate similar to
EXAMPLE 1 to prepare a measuring plate.
[0125]
           (ii) Preparation of Measuring Sample
           BODIPY-tagged cholesterol was used to prepare a measuring sample from the
abnormal specimen similar to EXAMPLE 1.             Each PEG2-Biotin, PEG3-Biotin,
PEG4-Biotin, PEG7-Biotin, PEG9-Biotin and PEG 11 -Biotin was used to prepare a
measuring sample from the abnormal specimen similar to EXAMPLE 3.
[0126]
           (iii) Formation of Complex of HDL in which Cholesterol is Incorporated and
Anti-ApoAl Antibody

                                            50
          The complex of HDL and the anti-ApoAl antibody were formed on the plate
similar to EXAMPLE 3.       In the EXAMPLE 4, one plate capturing the complex was
prepared.
[0127]
(4.4) Measurement of the Amount of Cholesterol Incorporated into HDL and the
Captured Complex
          For BODIPY-tagged cholesterol, the amount of cholesterol incorporated into
HDL was measured by using a rabbit anti-BODIPY antibody and a HRP labeled goat
anti-rabbit IgG polyclonal antibody by chemiluminescent similar to EXAMPLE 1.        For
the biotin-tagged cholesterol, the amount of cholesterol incorporated into HDL was
measured by using a HRP labeled streptavidin by chemiluminescent similar to
EXAMPLE 3. The amount of the captured complex were measured similar to
EXAMPLE 3.
[0128]
(4.5) Measuring Result
          From the measuring result of the amount of the captured complex, it could be
confirmed that the complex of HDL and the anti-ApoAl antibody were formed on the
plate.   The measuring result of the amount of cholesterol incorporated in HDL is
shown in Table 3.   Table 3 shows the average of the amount of luminescence (RLU)
and SD of the diluted liquid containing HDL fraction derived from the abnormal
specimen and the reference specimen.     In Fig. 3, "BODIPY" refers to BODIPY-tagged
cholesterol, and "abnormal specimen" refers to the diluted liquid containing HDL
fraction derived from the abnormal specimen (ApoAI concentration is 0.1 ptg/ml).
[0129]
[Table 3]

                                                   51
                              Reference antibody                   Abnormal specimen
Tagged cholesterol
                        The average               SD        The average               SD
BODIPY                     19649                  986         25603                   613
PEG2-Biotin                 3501                  400           6409                 1229
PEG3-Biotin                 4461                  435           6880                 1131
PEG4-Biotin                 1970                  348          18880                  985
PEG7-Biotin                 8368                 1227         50084                 4168
PEG9-Biotin                 2710                  211           4805                  461
PEG1I-Biotin                7377                 1225          18957                  782
[0130]
          As shown in Table 3, the use of all biotin-tagged cholesterols having the PEG
linker provided higher amount of luminescence than background.          Therefore, in the
measuring method of the present embodiment, it was shown that the use of the
biotin-tagged cholesterol having the various length of the linker allows to measure the
cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins similar to BODIPY-tagged cholesterol.
[0131]
EXAMPLE 5
          In EXAMPLE 5, cholesterol in which DNP was added as the tag was prepared.
The DNP-tagged cholesterol and the BODIPY-tagged cholesterol in EXAMPLE 1 were
used to measure the cholesterol uptake capacity of HDL.       The measurement was
performed in ELISA method using a magnetic particle as the solid phase.
[0132]
(5.1) Preparation of DNP-tagged Cholesterol
           Similar to the first step of EXAMPLE 2, 3p-hydroxy-A5-cholenoic acid and a
water-soluble carbodiimide were dissolved in DMF, and reacted at room temperature
under Ar atmosphere.       Similar to the second step of EXAMPLE 2, to the reaction
liquid obtained in the first step was added a solution of N-hydroxysuccinimide in DMF,

                                              52
and reacted at room temperature under Ar atmosphere.        The reaction liquid obtained in
the first step, and the reaction liquid obtained in the second step were individually
spotted on a silica gel plate, and the plate was developed with a developing solvent
(hexane:ethyl acetate = 4:6).     The Rf value of the product in the first step was 0.45,
and that of the product in the second step was 0.5.
[0133]
          In the third step of EXAMPLE 2, DNP-tagged cholesterol were prepared in
similar method as in EXAMPLE 2, except that
N1-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)ethane-1,2-diamine(Combi-Blocks) was used instead of
Biotin-PEG4-Amine.        The third step in the synthesis scheme of the DNP-tagged
cholesterol is as follows.
[Chemical Formula 14]
(Third step)
                                       00
                                                             2N    N\ NH      NO 2
                                         N
                      H                                                         NO
                                                                   NH-\_NHN0
               DMF
           ArRT,72h
                                               DNP-tagged cholesterol
[0134]
          The reaction liquid obtained in the second step, the reaction liquid obtained in
the third step, and the mixed liquid thereof were individually spotted on a silica gel

                                            53
plate, and the plate was developed with a developing solvent (hexane:THF    = 3:7).  The
Rf value of the product in the third step (DNP-labeledtagged cholesterol) was 0.7.   The
DNP-tagged cholesterol was collected by a thin layer chromatography.
[0135]
(5.2) Analysis of DNP-tagged Cholesterol
          The collected DNP-tagged cholesterol was separated and purified by high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).       The resulting purified substance was
analyzed by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and liquid chromatography-mass
spectrometry (LC-MS). IH-NMR spectrum was measured at 400 MHz, and 3C-NMR
spectrum was measured at 100 MHz by using JNM-ECX400P (manufactured by JEOL
Ltd.).   The conditions for measuring HPLC and LC-MS are as follows.       The
purification by HPLC and the analysis by NMR and LC-MS were performed by NARD
INSTITUTE, LTD. on commission.
[0136]
(HPLC)
          Instrument: LC-2010 (manufactured by SHIMADZU CORPORATION)
          Column: Kinetex* 5 pm EVO C18 100A 4.6 x 150 mm (manufactured by
SHIMADZU GLC Ltd.)
          Column Temperature: 40'C
          Flow Rate: 1 mL/min
          Mobile Phase A: 1 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.4)
          Mobile Phase B: acetonitrile (MeCN)

                                          54
[0137]
[Table 4]
 Gradient condition
      Time (min)      Mobile phase A (%)   Mobile phase B (%)
         0.00                90.0                 10.0
         7.00                0.00                  100
         15.0                0.00                  100
         20.0                90.0                 10.0
[0138]
(LC-MS)
Instruments
         MS detector: waters 3100 Mass Detector (Manufactured by Waters
Corporation)
         FAD detector: waters 2996 Photodiode Array Detector (Manufactured by
Waters Corporation)
         ELSD: waters 2424 ELS Detector (Manufactured by Waters Corporation)
         Pump: waters 2545 Binary Gradient Module (Manufactured by Waters
Corporation)
          SFO: waters SFO System Fluidics Organizer (Manufactured by Waters
Corporation)
         Column: Atlantis 3.5ptm 4.6 x 50 mm (Manufactured by Waters Corporation)
         Column Temperature: room temperature
         Flow Rate: 2 mL/min
         Mobile Phase A: 0.1% aqueous trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) solution
         Mobile Phase B: MeCN

                                             55
[0139]
[Table 5]
 Gradient condition
      Time (min)       Mobile phase A (%)     Mobile phase B (%)
         0.00                  95.0                   5.00
         0.50                  95.0                   5.00
         3.00                  5.00                   95.0
         5.00                  5.00                   95.0
[0140]
          Ionization Method: ESI (electrospray ionization) method
          Mass Voltage: 30 V
          Positive mode
[0141]
          The measuring results of NMR and LC-MS are shown as follows.           These
results showed that DNP-tagged cholesterol represented by the formula (VI) was
obtained.
[0142]
LC-MS m/z 583.7 [M+H]
IH-NMR (CDCl 3 ) 6: 9.14 (1H, d, J = 2.3 Hz), 8.74 (1H, s), 8.30 (1H, dd, J = 9.4, 2.5
Hz), 7.11 (1H, d, J = 9.6 Hz), 5.83-5.72 (1H, br m), 5.35 (1H, d, J = 5.0 Hz), 3.66-3.47
(5H, m), 2.29-2.23 (3H, m), 2.15-2.07 (1H, m), 2.00-1.94 (2H, m), 1.89-1.75 (4H, m),
1.53-1.23 (10H, m), 1.19-0.88 (12H, m), 0.66 (3H, s).
13
   C-NMR (CDCl 3) 6: 174.8 (C), 148.4 (C), 140.7 (C),136.4 (C), 133.7 (C), 130.5
(CH),124.3 (CH), 121.6 (CH), 114.0 (CH),71.8 (CH), 56.7 (CH), 55.7 (CH),50.0 (CH),
43.0 (CH 2), 42.4 (CH 2), 42.3 (C), 39.7 (CH 2), 38.5 (CH 2), 37.2 (CH 2), 36.5 (C),35.5

                                              56
(CH), 33.4 (CH 2), 31.9 (CH), 31.8 (CH 2), 31.6 (CH 2), 28.2 (CH 2), 24.2 (CH 2), 22.9
(CH), 21.0 (CH), 19.4 (CH 3 ), 18.4 (CH 3 ), 11.8 (CH 3 ).
[0143]
(5.3) Formation of Complex of HDL and Anti-ApoAl Antibody on Solid Phase
         (i) Preparation of Measuring Sample
         The abnormal specimen in EXAMPLE 1 was diluted with a reaction buffer
(PBS) to prepare diluted liquids containing HDL fraction having an ApoAl
concentration of 0.2 ptg/ml.     As a reference specimen without HDL fraction (ApoAl
concentration is 0 pg/ml), the reaction buffer was used.    PBS was prepared by
dissolving a phosphate buffered saline tablet (Sigma-Aldrich) with water.     To the
reaction buffer was added 0.5 mM DNP-tagged cholesterol or 0.5 mM BODIPY-tagged
cholesterol (TopFluor Cholesterol, AvantiPolar Lipids) until the final concentration was
5 tm.    After that, the diluted liquids containing HDL fraction was added in a ratio of
1/100 based on the total amount.      The resulting mixture was shaken at 800 rpm, at
37'C for 2 hours to obtain a measuring sample.
[0144]
         (ii) Formation of Complex of HDL in which Cholesterol is Incorporated and
Anti-ApoAl Antibody
         30 pl of the measuring sample was taken, and transferred to another tube.     In
the tube, 30 pl of 2.5 ng/pl biotinylated ApoAl antibody (obtained by reducing
anti-ApoA1 antibody (SANBIO) with 2-mercaptoethylamine hydrochloride (NACALAI
TESQUE, INC. and labeling with Biotin-PEAC5-maleimide (Dojindo)), was added to
the sample solution and reacted at 42'C for 12 minutes.     To the tube was added 30 pl
of HISCL magnetic particle (SYSMEX CORPORATION), and reacted at 42'C for 10
minutes.     Since avidin is fixed on the surface of HISCL magnetic particle, the

                                            57
biotinylated anti-ApoAl antibody in the complex bonds to the surface of the magnetic
particle.    The supernatant was removed by collecting the magnetic particle in the
reaction liquid magnetically.   HISCL line cleaner (SYSMEX CORPORATION) was
added to wash the magnetic particle.    The washing procedure was further performed
twice.    The supernatant was removed by collecting the magnetic particle magnetically.
[0145]
(5.4) Measurement of the Amount of Cholesterol Incorporated into HDL by
Chemiluminescence
          (i) Measurement of the Amount of the DNP-tagged cholesterol
          To the magnetic particle having HDL in which the DNP-tagged cholesterol is
incorporated was added 100 ptl of 333 ng/pl ALP labeled anti-DNP antibody (obtained
by labeling the anti-DNP antibody (produced by KITAYAMA LABES CO., LTD. on
commission) with ALP using ALP Labeling Kit-SH (Dojindo)), and reacted at 42'C for
10 minutes.     The supernatant was removed by collecting the magnetic particle in the
reaction liquid magnetically.   HISCL line cleaner (SYSMEX CORPORATION) was
added to wash the magnetic particle.    The washing procedure was further performed
twice.    The magnetic particle was transferred to another tube, and the supernatant was
removed by collecting the magnetic particle magnetically.     To the tube were added 50
pl of R4 reagent of HISCL luminescence substrate (SYSMEX CORPORATION) and
100 pl of R5 reagent, and reacted at 42'C for 5 minutes.    After the reaction, the
magnetic particle was collected magnetically, and the supernatant was transferred to
96-well plate.    The amount of luminescence was measured by a microplate reader
(Infinite* F200 Pro, manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.).
[0146]
          (ii) Measurement of the Amount of BODIPY-tagged Cholesterol

                                             58
         To the magnetic particle having HDL in which the BODIPY-tagged cholesterol
is incorporated was added 100 pl of the diluted liquid of a rabbit anti-BODIPY antibody
(Life technologies), and reacted at 25'C for 60 minutes, as similar to EXAMPLE 1.
The supernatant was removed by collecting the magnetic particle in the reaction liquid
magnetically.    HISCL line cleaner (SYSMEX CORPORATION) was added to wash
the magnetic particle.   The washing procedure was further performed twice.       The
supernatant was removed by collecting the magnetic particle magnetically.      To the
magnetic particle was added 100 pl of the diluted liquid of HRP labeled goat anti-rabbit
IgG polyclonal antibody (Dako), and reacted at 25'C for 60 minutes, as similar to
EXAMPLE 1. After the reaction, washing the magnetic particle with HISCL line
cleaner (SYSMEX CORPORATION) was performed three times.                The magnetic
particle was transferred to another tube, and the supernatant was removed by collecting
the magnetic particle magnetically.    To the magnetic particle was added 100 pl of a
chemiluminescent substrate solution (SuperSignal ELISA Pico, 37069, Thermo
Scientific), and reacted at 25'C for 2 minutes.   After the reaction, the magnetic particle
was collected magnetically, and the supernatant was transferred to 96-well plate.    The
amount of luminescence was measured by a microplate reader (Infinite* F200 Pro,
manufactured by Tecan Group Ltd.).
[0147]
(5.5) Measuring Result
         The measuring result is shown in Fig. 5.    As shown in Fig. 5, the use of all
BODIPY-tagged cholesterols and DNP-tagged cholesterols provided higher amount of
luminescence than background.      Therefore, in the measuring method of the present
embodiment, it was shown that the use of the DNP-tagged cholesterol allows to
measure the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins similar to BODIPY-tagged

                                            59
cholesterol.
[0148]
         This application relates to Japanese Patent Application Publication No.
2015-1105 10 filed on May 29, 2015, Japanese Patent Application Publication No.
2015-193648 filed on September 30, 2015, Japanese Patent Application Publication No.
2015-206422 filed on October 20, 2015, and Japanese Patent Application Publication
No. 2016-046069 filed on March 9, 2016.       All these claims, specifications, figures, and
abstracts are incorporated by reference herein.
EXPLANATION OF REFERENCES
[0149]
          11: first container
         22: second container
         33: third container
         44: fourth container
         55: fifth container
         66: solid phase (96-well microplate)

                                                 60
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.        A method for measuring the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins, comprising
the steps of:
          preparing a lipoprotein in which a tagged cholesterol is incorporated by contacting a
lipoprotein in a sample and a tagged cholesterol,
          forming a labeled complex by contacting: the lipoprotein in which a tagged
cholesterol is incorporated; an antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein; a capture
body specifically binding to the tag; and a label, and
          detecting a signal resulted from the labeled complex.
2.        The method according to claim 1, further comprising B/F separation step for
removing an unreacted free component after the preparing step and before the forming step.
3.        The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein in the forming step,
          first contacting the lipoprotein in which the tagged cholesterol is incorporated and the
antibody; and
          second contacting a complex of the lipoprotein in which the tagged cholesterol is
incorporated and the antibody, the capture body and the label.
4.        The method according to claim 3, wherein in the forming step, B/F separation for
removing an unreacted free component is conducted after the first contacting step and before
the second contacting step.
5.        The method according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the capture body bound to the
label is used in the forming step,
          wherein in the forming step, the capture body bound to the label is applied to the

                                               61
contact with the lipoprotein in which the tagged cholesterol is incorporated and the antibody.
6.       The method according to any of claims I to 5, wherein the antibody which
specifically binds to the lipoprotein is immobilized on a solid phase, and the labeled complex
is formed on the solid phase.
7.       The method according to any of claims 1 to 6, further comprising B/F separation step
for removing an unreacted free component after the forming step and before the detecting
step.
8.       The method according to any one of claims I to 7, wherein the label is an enzyme,
and the signal is a chemiluminescent signal resulted by contacting the enzyme with a substrate
for the enzyme.
9.       The method according to claim 8, wherein the enzyme is a peroxidase or an alkaline
phosphatase.
10.      The method according to any one of claims I to 9, wherein the capture body is: an
antibody which specifically binds to the tag; avidin; or streptavidin.
11.      The method according to claim 10, wherein the capture is a labeled antibody.
12.      The method according to any one of claims I to 11, wherein the antibody bound to
the lipoprotein is an anti-ApoAl antibody.
13.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the tagged cholesterol is

                                                    62
represented by the following formula (III):
                                       R1 -t X -hE L+b+Y-]o- TAG
                                                                           (III)
   HO
wherein R1 is an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which may have a methyl group,
          X and Y are identical or different and each represents -R 2-NH-, -NH-R 2-,
-R 2-(C=O)-NH-, -(C=O)-NH-R 2 -, -R 2-NH-(C=O)-, -NH-(C=O)-R 2-, -R 2-(C=O)-, -(C=O)-R 2-,
-R 2-(C=O)-O-, -(C=O)-O-R 2 -, -R2-0-(C=O)-, -O-(C=O)-R 2 -, -R2 -(C=S)-NH-,
-(C=S)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=S)-, -NH-(C=S)-R 2 -, -R2 -0-, -O-R 2-, -R2 -S-, or -S-R 2-, wherein
each R 2 is independently an atomic bonding; an alkylene group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms,
which may have a substituent group; an arylene group or a heteroarylene group having 6 to 12
carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent group; or a cycloalkylene group or a
heterocycloalkylene group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent
group;
          L represents -(CH 2 )d-[R 3 -(CH 2 )e], or -[(CH2)e-R 3]-(CH2)d-, wherein R 3 is an oxygen
atom, a sulfur atom, -NH-, -NH-(C=O)-, or -(C=0)-NH-;
          TAG is a tag;
          a and c are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 6;
          b is 0 or 1;
          d and e are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 12; and
          f is an integer of 0 to 24.
14.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the tag has the structure
represented by the following formula (I):

                                               63
                    N
                   /(I\
             F    F
or the structure represented by the following formula (II):
           0
     HN        NH
    HtH                    (I)
or 2,4-dinitrophenyl group.
15.       The method according to claim 14, wherein the tagged cholesterol is represented by
the following formula (IV):
                                            | f'F
                                               N
                                                            (TV)
                     ol                           /
    HO
or the following formula (V):

                                              64
                                                        0
                                                                            H
                                                                    H)
                                                                     HN   NH
    HO
(wherein n is an integer of 0 to 24.)
or the following formula (VI).
                                        NH \       NH        201
                                                                  2 NO
16.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the sample is blood,
serum, or plasma.
17.      The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 16, wherein the lipoprotein is a
high-density lipoprotein.
18.      A reagent kit when used in the method according to any one of claims I to 17 to
measure the cholesterol uptake capacity of lipoproteins, comprising:
         a tagged cholesterol;
         an antibody which specifically binds to the lipoprotein;
         a capture body which specifically binds to the tag; and
         a label.

                                                65
19.      The reagent kit according to claim 18, further comprising a solid phase.
20.      A reagent composition when used in the method according to any one of claims I to
17, comprising a compound represented by the following formula (III):
                                        Ri 4 X-h+ L h-Y +- TAG
                                                                           (III)
                         H         H
wherein R1 is an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which may have a methyl group,
         X and Y are identical or different and each represents -R 2-NH-, -NHJ-R 2-,
-R 2-(C=O)-NH-, -(C=O)-NH-R 2 -, -R2 -NH-(C=O)-, -NH-(C=O)-R 2-, -R 2-(C=O)-, -(C=O)-R 2-,
-R 2-(C=O)-O-, -(C=O)-O-R 2 -, -R2-0-(C=O)-, -O-(C=O)-R 2 -, -R2 -(C=S)-NH-,
-(C=S)-NH-R 2-, -R 2-NH-(C=S)-, -NH-(C=S)-R 2 -, -R2 -0-, -0-R2-, -R2 -S-, or -S-R 2-, wherein
each R2 is independently an atomic bonding; an alkylene group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms,
which may have a substituent group; an arylene group or a heteroarylene group having 6 to 12
carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent group; or a cycloalkylene group or a
heterocycloalkylene group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, each of which may have a substituent
group;
         L represents -(CH 2 )d-[R 3 -(CH2)er or -[(CH2)e-R3]r(CH2)d-, wherein R 3 is an oxygen
atom, a sulfur atom, -NH-, -NH-(C=O)-, or -(C=0)-NH-;
         TAG is a tag;
         a and c are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 6;
         b is 0 or 1;
         d and e are identical or different and each represents an integer of 0 to 12; and
         f is an integer of 0 to 24.

                                                                          1
<removed-date>
              Fig. 1
                 The amount of
<removed-apn>
              luminescence (RLU)
                                                            Normal specimen       Abnormal specimen
                                                               ApoAl concentration ( g/ml)
              Fig. 2
                     The amount of luminescence (RLU)
                                                        Normal specimen              Abnormal specimen
                                                                 ApoAl concentration ( g/ml)

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   Fig. 3A
                             2

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 3B
                                     3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   Fig. 3C
                             4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   Fig. 3D
                             5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   Fig. 3E
                             6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   Fig. 3F
                             7

                                                                     8
<removed-date>
              Fig. 4
                The amount of luminescence (RLU)
<removed-apn>
                                                     No linker           Having linker
                                                      ApoAl concentration 0.1 ( g/ml)
              Fig. 5
                The amount of luminescence (RLU)
                                                   ApoAl concentration ( g/ml)

