                                            Abstract
Disclosed herein are conformable protection pads, which can be integrated into articles such
as clothing and protective cases. In one embodiment, an exemplary cushioning pad includes
a first channel comprising a thickness and a width. The first channel comprises a continuous
upper layer and a continuous lower layer, which is at least partially bonded to the continuous
lower layer. The cushioning region is disposed adjacent to the first channel, and has a
thickness greater than the thickness of the first channel. The cushioning region further includes
a cushioning material disposed between and bonded to the continuous upper layer and the
continuous lower layer. A groove maybe defined in the upper surface of the cushioning region,
with a thickness less than the thickness of the cushioning region and greater than the
thickness of the first channel.

                  FLEXIBLE CUSHIONING PADS, ITEMS INCORPORATING
                    SUCH PADS, AND METHODS OF MAKING AND USING
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]      The disclosure relates to conformable protection pads, articles that include such pads,
methods of making and using the pads and articles and, in particular, to conformable protection
pads for humans, for areas that require free range of motion.
RELATED CASES
[0002]     Priority   is hereby     claimed  to  commonly-owned       and co-pending      Provisional
Application No. 61/401,373         filed on August    11, 2010 and Provisional Application No.
61/382,022 filed on September 12, 2010, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety.
[0003]      This patent document is a divisional child of G-Form, LLC's earlier Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn> entitled: "Flexible cushioning pads, items incorporating such pads,
and methods of making and using"; the contents of which are hereby incorporated in their
entirety. This patent document is a divisional grand-child of G-Form, LLC's earlier Australian
patent application entitled "Flexible cushioning pads, items incorporating such pads, and
methods of making and using" - Australian National Phase of International Patent Application
No. PCT/US2011/047472 assigned Australian Patent Application No. 2011289321; the contents
of which, as first filed, are hereby incorporated in their entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0004]     Many activities, especially athletic activities, involve potential risk to the body from
impact. Elbows, knees, shoulders, ankles, hips and other joints can be especially susceptible to
impact damage and yet are challenging to protect without restricting the range of motion and
movement of the individual. Impact protection can be heavy, non-breathable or restrictive, or
alternatively does not target certain body parts accurately, or does so inconsistently.
                                                   1

[0005]      Some impact protection systems consist of separate rigid pads that are heavy, and
restrict motion. The rigid components can be lined with some form of soft cushioning to make
them comfortable against the body, which is an attempt to cushion impacts to the body, but the
extra layers add to the weight and discomfort of the pads. In addition, the padding systems can
be hot to wear, and also restrict the evaporation of moisture and sweat.
[0006]      Other protective pads are made from materials that are softer, so they bend, but offer
little in the way of protection against a serious impact, especially an impact from a rock or other
hard object. These materials include standard chemically foamed polyether or polyester foams.
[0007]      Other padding can be made from stiffer foam materials, such as cross-linked
polyethylene foams or EVA foams. Such foams offer a bit more protection, but restrict the user's
range of motion. Overall, such materials offer insufficient protection, while restricting motion.
[0008]      There also have been attempts to use stiffer foams as pads, but the foam had to be cut
in strips in order to reduce the restriction of movement that a solid foam piece would cause.
Unfortunately for the wearer, the strips offered less than optimal protection.
[0009]      Foam can also be thermoformed into curved or complex shapes, and sewn between
layers of material that holds the strips or pieces in place. Other materials that offer better impact
absorption such as d30 have also been used in padding, but these materials are also stiff.
[0010]      Attempts have been made to make the foregoing materials appear less stiff to the
wearer by creating thinner regions in each piece which allows better flexing. But protective pads
manufactured this way cannot offer full range of motion at the location of the padding, because
the material breaks apart when flexed at the thinner areas. These materials also need to be buried
beneath layers of fabric because they are not durable or aesthetically pleasing enough to be
exposed. The use of covering materials adds unnecessary weight to the padding, and increases
the cost of the pads.
                                                   2

[0011]      A need exists for improved protective padding, particularly for areas requiring range of
motion, and for joints.
SUMMARY
[0012]      The present disclosure is directed, in one embodiment, to a cushioning pad that
includes a first channel comprising a thickness and a width.        The first channel comprises a
continuous upper layer and a continuous lower layer, which is at least partially bonded to the
continuous lower layer. The cushioning region is disposed adjacent to the first channel, and has
a thickness greater than the thickness of the first channel. The cushioning region further includes
a cushioning material disposed between and bonded to the continuous upper layer and the
continuous lower layer. A groove maybe defined in the upper surface of the cushioning region,
with a thickness less than the thickness of the cushioning region and greater than the thickness of
the first channel.
[0013]      In some embodiments, the cushioning pad includes a perimeter flange spaced apart
from the cushioning region by the width of the channel, and the perimeter flange has a thickness
greater than the thickness of the first channel and less than the thickness of the cushioning
region. The perimeter flange includes the cushioning material disposed between and bonded to
the continuous upper layer and the continuous lower layer.
[0014]      In some embodiments, the continuous upper layer is at least partially bonded to the
continuous lower layer in the perimeter channel by a plurality of portions of cushioning material
disposed between and bonded to the continuous upper and lower layers.
[0015]      In some embodiments, the perimeter channel includes a continuous layer of cushioning
material disposed between and bonded to the continuous upper and lower layers.
[0016]      The present disclosure is directed, in another embodiment, to a cushioning pad
including a     perimeter channel comprising a thickness and a width.       The perimeter channel
includes a continuous upper layer and a continuous lower layer. The continuous upper layer is at
least partially bonded to the continuous lower layer. The cushioning pad includes a cushioning
                                                   3

region adjacent to the perimeter channel, which has a thickness greater than the thickness of the
perimeter channel. The cushioning region also includes a cushioning material disposed between
and bonded to the continuous upper layer and the continuous lower layer. A perimeter flange is
spaced apart from the cushioning region by the width of the perimeter channel, and has a
thickness approximately equal to the combined thickness of the inner layer and the outer layer.
[0017]      In any of the embodiments of the cushioning pad, the continuous upper and lower
layers can comprise a polyester thermoplastic polyurethane.
[0018]      In any of the embodiments of the cushioning pad, the continuous upper and lower
layers can comprise a TPE film bonded to a layer spandex fabric, such that the TPE layers are
disposed adjacent to the cushioning material.
[0019]      In any of the embodiments of the cushioning pad, the cushioning material can
comprise a cellular material comprising a plurality of cells having a minimum cell diameter, and
the thickness of the cushioning material between the inner layer and the outer layer is less than
the minimum cell diameter.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020]      The foregoing and other features and advantages will be apparent from the following
more particular description of exemplary embodiments of the disclosure, as illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, in which like reference characters refer to the same parts throughout the
different views. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon
illustrating the principles of the disclosure.
[0021]      FIG. 1A is a top view of one exemplary cushioning pad according to the present
disclosure, with various cushioning regions;
[0022]      FIG. 1B is a top views of the cushioning pad shown in FIG. 1A;
[0023]      FIG. IC is a top views of the cushioning pad shown in FIG. 1A;
                                                  4

[0024]    FIG. ID is a top views of the cushioning pad shown in FIG. 1A;
[0025]    FIG. 1E is a top views of the cushioning pad shown in FIG. 1A;
[0026]    FIG. 2 is a schematic side view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 1A, through line 2-2;
[0027]    FIG. 3 is a schematic side view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 1A, through line 3-3;
[0028]    FIG. 4 is a top view of another exemplary cushioning pad according to the present
disclosure;
[0029]    FIG. 5 is a schematic side view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 4, through line 5-5;
[0030]    FIG. 6 is a schematic side view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 4, through line 6-6;
[0031]    FIG. 7 is a top view of another exemplary cushioning pad according to the present
disclosure;
[0032]    FIG. 8 is a perspective view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 7;
[0033]    FIG. 9 is a schematic side view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 7, through line 8-8;
[0034]    FIG. 10 is a top view of another exemplary cushioning pad according to the present
disclosure;
[0035]    FIG. 11 is a perspective view of the cushioning pad of FIG. 10;
[0036]    FIG. 12 shows a partial view of a user wearing a compression sleeve in which the
cushioning pad of FIG. 7 has been integrated, and showing the conformance of the cushioning
pad to the elbow when the elbow is articulated; and
                                                 5

[0037]     FIG. 13 is a front view of a compression t-shirt in which the cushioning pad of FIG. 7
has been integrated.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0038]     The present disclosure is directed to an improved, conforming cushioning pad, to items
that include the pads, and to methods of making and using the pads.
[0039]     The present pads include cushioning regions of various shapes, sizes, configurations
and thicknesses.   For ease of discussion, the terms "cushioning region" and "medallion" will
used interchangeably throughout the description.         Various materials can be used for the
medallions, as will be described below. The medallions are spaced apart by channels of various
depths and configurations, which define the perimeter of the medallions. The upper surface of
the medallions may include grooves of various depths and configurations, which define, in part,
the contours of the medallions. In some instances, a perimeter flange is provided, spaced apart
from the perimeter of the pad.
[0040]     The combination of the medallions, channels, grooves and flange, as well as the
materials from which the pads are formed, together provide various functional characteristics to
the pad. For example, the channels are deeper than the grooves, and are configured to provide
unrestricted, free range of motion in critical areas, such as around joints. The grooves are
shallower than the hinges, and provide flexibility, while retaining some cushioning and/or impact
resistance. However, it should be understood that both the channels and the grooves function as
"hinges," providing the pad with multilevel hinging.
[0041]     The present cushioning pads can be incorporated into clothing, and can be designed to
have specific functional characteristics. Such clothing is unique in its ability to provide mobile
protection to areas of the body that flex, particularly joints. The padding can be incorporated
into garments in a unique way, such that garment materials fit snugly, but stretch and conform to
the body, or to a specific joint shape, resulting in an integrated padding system that protects the
                                                  6

wearer from impact better than other products, because the pad is in constant and direct contact
with the wearer during the full range of motion.        Garments incorporating the present pads
provide improved protection from injury when worn, because the base of the pad, or the material
to which the base of the pad is attached, can be maintained in direct contact with the user's body
during use, when incorporated into clothing that stretches and fits snugly, such as compression
clothing. The flexibility of the pads allows the pads to conform to a user's body shape, so that
the pad can be maintained in contact with the user's body. That is, without the degree of
flexibility of the present pads, the pads would not be capable of conforming to the changing body
contours of the user, while in motion. For ease of discussion, the term "flexible," as used herein,
means the ability of the pad to move by bending, twisting, flexing and/or stretching, and the like.
[0042]     By combining specific shapes, sizes, configurations, contours and orientations of the
medallions, hinges, grooves and/or a perimeter flange, with specific pad and clothing materials,
garments can be designed to maximize a user's free range of motion, while protecting specific,
targeted areas of the body, particularly joints. Such garments are aesthetically pleasing, more
durable, lower in cost, more comfortable, and provide significant range of motion and targeted,
accurate, protection to the body.
[0043]      Similarly, the present cushioning pads can be incorporated into other items, such as
protective cases.     For example, the padding can be incorporated into sleeves or cases that
correspond to the shape and size of an electronic device, such as a laptop computer or a media
device, such that they fit snugly, but also stretch and conform to the exterior of the case. Cases
comprising the present pads can provide lightweight, flexible and impact-resistant protection.
[0044]      The construction of the present pads and items including such pads provide items that
are rugged, durable, and able to withstand the temperatures, detergents and mechanical action
used in industrial and/or commercial laundering, unlike other padded clothing, which tends to
degrade under such harsh conditions.
[0045]     FIGS. 1A-1E, and FIGS. 2-3, when taken together, illustrate one exemplary cushioning
pad 100 according to the present disclosure. Pad 100 has a shape, size and configuration adapted
                                                  7

to the contours of an elbow joint, as noted above, but it should be understood that the pad can
comprise any shape, size or configuration as is practical or desired for a particular design or
application. As shown, pad 100 comprises a front surface 10, a back surface 12 and a perimeter
14. As shown in cross-section in FIGS. 2 and 3, pad 100 comprises a cushioning layer 15
disposed between optional outer and inner layers 16,17.
[0046]      The optional outer layer 16 can comprise any material capable of providing sufficient
elasticity to prevent tearing and/or stretching when a force is applied thereto; sufficient structural
integrity to be formed into predetermined shapes; and that is capable of withstanding the
environment in which it is intended to be used (e.g., repetitive deformations such as twisting,
bending, flexing, stretching, and the like), without substantial degradation. The outer layer 16
also can be selected to facilitate the handling of layer 15, which can comprise adhesive
characteristics, in some instances. Therefore, the outer layer 16 can be selected to provide a
relatively non-tacky surface and smooth surface to the human touch, after molding.
[0047]      Outer layer 16 can comprise any thickness, and the thickness can be varied depending
upon the application. The desired thickness for a particular application can be determined using
routine experimentation by those of ordinary skill in the art. Outer layer 16 can comprise a
thickness ranging from about 0.2 milli-inches (hereinafter "mil") to about 60 mils, more
particularly from about 0.5 mils to about 30 mils, and more particularly still from about 1.0 mil
to about 15 mils.
[0048]     In instances in which the hand-feel of the products is important, it has been found
desirable to minimize the thickness of the outer layer. Therefore, in such products it can be
desirable to use the thinnest outer layer possible without sacrificing durability. For example, for
applications in which a relatively thin outer layer 16 is desirable, it can comprise a thickness
ranging from about 0.2 mil to about 6 mil, more particularly from about 0.5 mil to about 3 mil,
and more particularly still from about 0.6 mil to about 2 mil.
[0049]     In some instances, it can be desirable to use a thicker outer layer 16, which can provide
increased durability in comparison to thinner outer layers.        For example, when the present
                                                   8

materials are used in vibration dampening applications, it can be desirable for the thickness of
the outer layer 16 to be about 50 to about 60 mil. Alternatively, thicker layers can be desirable
when the cushioning layer is tacky, because the tacky material can be exposed if the outer layer
16 is punctured, making the products difficult to handle.
[0050]     When the present products are formed using a thermoforming process, it can be
desirable to use an outer layer having a thickness of up to about %/inch, and even thicker in some
instances when desired or necessary. It has been found that it is possible to maintain very soft
pliability for outer layers having a thickness of as much as 6 mil or more by applying heat and/or
a vacuum during the thermoforming process.
[0051]      Outer layer 16 can be applied as a sheet of material during the molding process. In the
form of a sheet, and especially when the outer layer is relatively thin, the material can be very
flexible and may wrinkle and/or fold very easily during handling. Therefore, the outer layer 16
also can comprise a support layer (not illustrated), which assists in handling the material.
Alternatively, the outer layer may also be applied as a coating of material during or after the
molding process, using a variety of techniques known to those of skill in the art.
[0052]      Suitable materials for the outer layer 16 include plastics, elastomeric materials such as
rubber, thermoplastic elastomers ("TPE"), and/or the like, and combinations comprising at least
one of the foregoing materials. Examples of plastics that can be used for the outer layer include,
but are not limited to, ethylene-vinyl acetate ("EVA"), nylon, polyester, polyethylene,
polyolefin, polyurethane, polyvinyl chloride ("PVC"), polystyrenes, polytetrafluoroethylene
("PTFE"), latex rubber, silicone, vinyl, and combinations thereof.
[0053]      Other possible materials for the outer layer 16 include a variety of other synthetic
and/or non-synthetic materials including, but not limited to, paper, fabric, metal, metallized
plastic, plastic film, metal foil, and/or the like, as well as composites and/or combinations
comprising at least one of the foregoing. Other durable materials can be used for the outer
layer including knit, woven and nonwoven fabrics, leather, vinyl or any other suitable material.
Use of a fabric layer as outer layer 16 can be advantageous because it can trap and disperse air
                                                   9

bubbles that may otherwise form in or between the layers, resulting in a better appearance for the
final molded products.
[0054]     It can be desirable to use materials for the outer layer than are somewhat elastic;
therefore, stretchy fabrics, such as spandex fabrics, can be desirable. The use of stretch fabric as
the outer layer can be desirable because it can improve the flexing of the hinges and grooves, and
the forming of the outer layer into a contoured shape.       In some cases, heating or otherwise
forming or pre-stretching materials with more limited stretch, can improve the molding process.
[0055]     When outer layer 16 comprises a fabric layer, the fabric can be knit, woven, non
woven, synthetic, non-synthetic, and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing, and
the fabric layer can be laminated to, for example, a TPE film. When the pad application requires
stretch, then use of an outer layer with elongation may be desirable, and when the outer layer is a
laminate, it may be desirable for each layer in the laminate to elongate.
[0056]     As noted above, it can be desirable to use materials for the outer layer than are
somewhat elastic, such as the TPE materials mentioned above. Such TPE materials also can be
desirable because they are available as films, in relatively low thicknesses. Any film thickness
can be used provided it is compatible with the method of molding and suitable for the intended
application, but film thicknesses of between about 1 mil and about 10 mils are desirable. Thicker
films are more durable, but thinner films are less expensive, and may provide a softer feel. There
are other reasons to choose thicker films, such as when thermoforming deeper shapes, as
described later herein. While films thinner than 1 mil or thicker than 10 mils can be used in such
applications, it may be desirable to use thicker films. The use of a film rather than a fabric as the
outside layer can make the product easy to clean and protect the cushioning material from
damage and dirt. The films can comprise an elongation of about 100 percent (%) to about 1500
%, more particularly about 200% to about 1000%, and more particularly still about 300% to
about 700%".
[0057]     Some possible TPE materials include styrenic block copolymers, polyolefin blends,
elastomeric    alloys, thermoplastic polyurethanes,     thermoplastic   copolyester,  thermoplastic
                                                  10

polyamides, and combinations thereof. Examples of commercially available elastomeric alloys
include melt-processable rubbers and thermoplastic vulcanizates.         Examples of suitable TPEs
include thermoplastic polyurethanes ("TPU"). TPU film can be desirable due to its combination
of durability, elasticity, softness and flexibility. One suitable film is a polyester polyurethane
film available from Deerfield Urethane, a Bayer Material Science Company, under the product
name Dureflex PS5400. It can be desirable to use a polyester TPU film, rather than a polyether
TPU film, because the polyester TPU film, in addition to having improved abrasion resistance in
comparison to polyether TPU film, also performs unexpectedly well under high humidity
conditions, such as in athletic clothing and commercial laundering.
[0058]     Additionally, pads and garments can be manufactured with both fabric and film on
different parts of the pad, allowing for full range of motion and further protection from the use of
both materials. It may be desirable that the outer layer be a composite of a fabric and film so that
the film aids in protecting the hinge during flexing and can also serve as a protective barrier for
the cushioning material.
[0059]     Inner layer 17 can comprise the same materials as the outer layer 16. When inner layer
17 comprises a fabric layer, the fabric can be knit, woven, non-woven, synthetic, non-synthetic,
and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing, and the fabric layer can be laminated
to, for example, a TPE film. When the pad application requires stretch, then use of an inner layer
with elongation may be desirable, and when the inner layer is a laminate, it may be desirable for
each layer in the laminate to elongate.         Use of a fabric layer as inner layer 17 can be
advantageous because it can trap and disperse air bubbles that may otherwise form in or between
the layers, resulting in a better appearance for the final molded products.
[0060]     The use of active agents in one or more of the inner layer, outer layer and/or the
cushioning layer can be desirable. For example, the addition of a silver or copper based active
agent can provide the material with antimicrobial or antifungal properties. The use of actives in
the inner or outer layer or the foam itself can be desirable, such as the addition of silver or copper
based actives to act as an antimicrobial or antifungal agent.
                                                   11

[0061]     One or both of inner and outer layers 16,17 also can comprise color, graphics and/or
indicia, including text.   The color, graphics and/or indicia disposed on such layers can be
transmitted through other layers when they are formed from colorless and/or transparent
materials, which can be desirable for aesthetic and costs reasons. In addition, if desired, one or
both of inner and outer layers 16,17 also can be fluid-permeable.     "Fluid-permeable," as used
herein, means that the material from which the layer is formed is open to passage or entrance of a
fluid material.
[0062]    With continued reference to FIGS. 1A-1E, and FIGS. 2-3, pad 100 comprises least one
cushioning region disposed in the upper surface 10. In the present exemplary embodiment, pad
100 comprises a central, circular medallion 18. A first, upper, crescent-shaped medallion 20 is
disposed adjacent to, above and spaced apart from medallion 18, and an upper, semi-circular
shaped medallion 22 is disposed adjacent to, above and spaced apart from the upper crescent
region 20. A second, lower, crescent-shaped medallion 24 is disposed adjacent to, below and
spaced apart from the central region 18, opposite from and spaced apart from the upper crescent
region 20. An approximately trapezoidal medallion 26 is disposed adjacent to, below and spaced
apart from the lower crescent-shaped medallion 24; and, a second, lower, approximately semi
circular medallion 28 is disposed adjacent to, below and spaced apart from the trapezoidal region
26. Opposing approximately trapedoizal-shaped medallions 30,32 are disposed on the left and
right sides of the central region 20, adjacent to and spaced apart from the upper and lower
crescent regions 20,24.
[0063]    As shown best in FIGS. IC, 2 and 3, each of the foregoing medallions 18, 30, 32
comprises an upper surface 34 and a sidewall 36 extending downwardly to the upper surface 10
of the pad 100.    The sidewalls 36 may be perpendicular to the upper surface 34, or have an
angled profile relative to the upper surface 34, coming to a point at the bottom of the hinge or
groove. Thus, the hinges and/or grooves may have a saw-tooth shape or have angled walls in
some embodiments, which minimizes the exposure of the hinges.
[0064]     The size, shape, thickness and material composition of the medallions may be varied,
depending on a number of factors including, but not limited to, desired amount of flexibility for
                                                12

the pad. In addition, the configuration of the medallions may be varied, and more than one type
of medallion shape may be used in the pads.
[0065]      Cushioning layer 15 can comprise one or more layers of any material or combination
of materials having sufficient structural integrity to be formed into predetermined shapes, such as
by molding, and that are capable of withstanding the environment in which they are intended to
be used, without substantial degradation.
[0066]      The material type and composition can be selected to provide articles and/or regions of
articles with predetermined material characteristics, which can be used to customize the pads for
specific applications such as cushioning, impact resistance, wear resistance, and the like.
Examples of suitable materials include polymeric materials, composite materials, and the like.
Examples of suitable polymeric materials include, but are not limited to, thermosetting polymeric
materials, elastomeric polymeric materials, thermoplastic materials, including thermoplastic
elastomeric materials, and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing. Some possible
polymeric materials include, but are not limited to, polyurethane, silicone, and/or the like, and
combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing materials.
[0067]      In some instances, it may be desirable for the pad to have cushioning characteristics to
provide a soft, pliable and comfortable feel such as when used in contact with a body. In such
instances, it has been found that some polymeric gels may be suitable.           One example of a
suitable polymeric gel is a polyurethane gel comprising a durometer ranging from about 0.01
Shore 00 to less than or equal to about 70 Shore A, more particularly less than 70 Shore 00, more
particularly still less than 60 Shore 00. The material can comprise a durometer ranging from
about 30 Shore 000 to about 88 Shore D. The durometer of the polymer can be determined by
those of ordinary skill in the art using tools such as durometers or penetrometers. Formation of
the gel can take place by a variety of methods known to those of skill in the art. For example,
formation of a polyurethane gel can comprise reacting suitable pre-polymeric precursor materials
e.g., reacting a polyol and an isocyanate in the presence of a catalyst.
                                                  13

[0068]     In some instances, it may be desirable for the pad to be lightweight, and in such
instances, the cushioning material 15 may comprise a foam material, such as a low density foam
material. Examples of suitable low density foams include polyester and polyether polyurethane
foams.
[0069]     In some instances, it may be desirable for the pad to be capable of providing impact
resistance.   In such instances, various types of impact absorbing materials have been found
suitable for the cushioning material, particularly energy absorbing foams. For such applications,
it can be desirable for such foams to have a density ranging from about 5 to about 35 pounds per
cubic foot (pcf), more particularly from about 10 to about 30 pcf, and more particularly still from
about 15 to about 25 pcf. Suitable rate dependent foams are available from Rogers Corporation
under the brand names PORON@ and PORON XRD@, which are open cell, microcellular
polyurethane foams.
[0070]     With continued reference to FIGS. 1A-1E, and FIGS. 2-3, one or more channels are
defined in the upper surface 10 to maintain the medallions 18, 30, 32 in spaced apart relation. As
shown in FIG. 2, channels 38 have a width "W1" defined by the spacing between the perimeter of
adjacent medallions, a depth "Di" defined by the spacing between the upper surface 34 of the
medallions and the upper surface 10 of the pad 100, and a thickness "T1" defined by the
combined thicknesses of the inner and outer layers 16,17 and the cushioning material 15
disposed between the layers.       For each of discussion, the "channels" will be referred to
hereinafter as hinges throughout the description, without intending to limit the fact that the
grooves also function as hinging elements.
[0071]      The width Wi of the hinges can be varied as desired or needed, and can range from as
narrow as about 1 mil to about 1000 mils, or more. In some instances, it can be desirable for the
width "Wi" of the hinges to be as narrow as possible, in order to maximize the protective
features of the medallions, while maintaining the hinging ability of the pads. Such applications
would include applications in which maximum protection is desired, or in which the hinge is
intended to wrap around a corner. Where impact protection is desired, the width of the hinges
can be designed to be narrower than the width of the object which would impact the pad. In such
                                                 14

instances, the width W1 can range from about 1 mil to about 10 mils, more particularly from
about 3 mils to about 7 mils, and more particularly still about 5 mils.
[0072]     In other instances, in which the protective features are less important, it can be
desirable for the width "W1" of the hinges to be much wider, in order to maximize the aesthetic
feature of the hinges, which can be made to contrast in color with the medallions.          In such
instances, the width W1 can be in the millimeter or centimeter range, or even greater, if desired.
[0073]     The hinges 38 may be linear channels that are disposed along parallel and/or
intersecting axes, as shown in FIG. IC. As shown in the present embodiment, hinges 38 may be
approximately aligned along parallel axes "A1" and "A2."        Hinges 38 may also be curved, as
shown by curves "A3" and "A4." The depth of the hinges between the medallions may be the
same or different, and the depth may vary along the hinge. Both curved and linear hinges may
be used in combination in the pads, as in the present embodiment, and may include a
combination of curved and linear hinged areas.
[0074]     As shown best in FIG. 1B, an optional perimeter flange 40 (hereinafter "flange") may
be defined in the upper surface 10 to maintain the medallions in spaced apart related from the
perimeter of the pad. In the present embodiment, the optional perimeter flange 40 has a width
"W2"    defined by the spacing between the perimeter of the outermost medallions and the
perimeter 14 of the pad 100. The width W2 of the perimeter flange 40 may vary, as desired. As
will be described in greater detail below, the perimeter flange 40 is thinner than the medallions,
allowing the pad to be attached to items such as clothing along the flange area using a variety of
techniques, such as by sewing, gluing, bonding, and the like. When integrated with, for example,
a compression sleeve, the pad can be sewn, glued or otherwise attached to the outside of the
sleeve fabric, or it can be sewn or attached to the interior surface of the sleeve, and exposed
through a corresponding opening in the sleeve.
[0075]     Optionally, the upper surfaces 34 of the medallions may be contoured using a variety
of geometries, including planar surfaces, curved surfaces, and combinations of planar and curved
surfaces. As shown in FIG. 3, in the present embodiment, the upper surface 34 of medallion 26
comprises a planar portion 34a lying in a plane "P1" that is approximately parallel to a plane
                                                15

"P2," P2   being co-planar with the upper surface 10 of pad 100.        The upper surface 34 of
medallion 26 also comprises another portion 34b lying in a plane P3 that intersects planes P1 and
P2.   The thickness of portion 34b generally decreases radially toward the perimeter of the
medallion 26. Alternatively, the upper surface 34 of a medallion may comprise a surface that is
defined by a thickness that generally decreases radially toward the perimeter of the medallion, or
toward the perimeter of the pad.
[0076]     As shown best in FIGS. IC and 3, optionally, one or more grooves 42 may be formed
in the upper surface 34 of the medallions.       Like the hinges 38, the grooves 42 increase the
flexibility of the pad, and as the thickness of the cushioning layer 15 in the grooves 42 is
decreased, the flexibility of the grooves 42, and pad 100, increases. The width, depth, orientation
and position of the grooves 42 in the upper surfaces 34 of the medallions may be varied,
depending on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the desired direction and amount
of flexibility, and the like.
[0077]     Like hinges 38, the grooves 42 may be curved grooves, or linear grooves that are
disposed along parallel and/or intersecting axes. Both curved and linear grooves may be used in
combination, and the grooves may include both curved and linear regions. As shown in FIG. 1E,
in the present embodiment, the left trapezoidal medallion 30 comprises a first linear groove 42x
having an axis "A4" that intersects the center medallion 18 and a second a linear groove 42y
having an axis "A5" that intersects with axis A4. As shown, both axes intersect approximately at
the center of center medallion 18 and extend radially from the center medallion 18 toward the
perimeter 14 of the pad 100, but it should be understood that it is not necessary for the axes of
the grooves to intersect at the center of the pad. Similarly, adjacent medallion 20 comprises a
third linear grove 42z having an axis "A6" that intersects with axes A4 and A5. The thickness of
the grooves in a pad or in a medallion may be the same or different, and the thickness may vary
along the axis or length of the groove, and from groove to groove.
[0078]     FIGS. 4-6, when taken together, illustrate another embodiment of an exemplary
cushioning pad 200 according to the present disclosure. Pad 200 has a similar structure to pad
100, comprising a front surface 10, a back surface 12 and an outer edge/perimeter 14, with a
                                                  16

cushioning layer 15 disposed between optional outer and inner layers 16,17. Pad 200 comprises
the same medallions as in pad 100. Optionally, one or more grooves 42 may be formed in the
upper surface 34 of the medallions.
[0079]    Also as in the previous embodiment, hinges 38 are defined in pad 200, to maintain the
medallions in spaced apart relation, and to provide flexibility to the pad. The hinges 38 have a
width "Wi" defined by the spacing between the perimeter of adjacent medallions, and a depth
"Di" defined by the spacing between the upper surface 34 of the medallions the upper surface 10
of the pad 200, and a thickness "T2" defined by the combined thicknesses of the inner and outer
layers 16,17 and the cushioning material 15, if any, disposed between the layers.
[0080]    Pad 200 also comprises an additional perimeter hinge 50, which corresponds to the
shape of the perimeter of the pad. Like hinge 38, perimeter hinge 50 has a width "W1" defined
by the spacing between the perimeter of adjacent medallions and perimeter flange 40, a depth
"Di" defined by the spacing between the upper surface 34 of the medallions and the upper
surface 10 of the pad 200, and a thickness "T2" defined by the combined thicknesses of the inner
and outer layers 16,17 and the cushioning material 15, if any, disposed between the layers.
[0081]    In the present embodiment, the thickness of the cushioning layer 15 disposed between
the upper and lower layers 16,17 in hinges 38,50 is minimized during the manufacturing process,
such that its thickness approaches zero in the hinges 38,50. As a result, the cushioning material
in the hinges 38,50 may not be visible to the naked eye, or only detectable using very sensitive
thickness gauges.
[0082]     The residual cushioning material remaining in between layers 16,17 assists in bonding
layers 16,17 together in the hinges 38,50. Depending on the materials used, the bonding between
layers 16,17 may be at least partially a chemical, thermal and/or mechanical bond. For example,
if the material used as the cushioning layer is a resin, the residual resin in the hinges 38,50 can
function as an adhesive to bond layers 16,17 together. Use of the resin as a bonding agent is
advantageous, because it eliminates the need for a separate adhesive in the very thin hinge areas,
                                                 17

and it keeps the bond consistent and equally flexible throughout pad, thereby enhancing the
durability of the pad.
[0083]     Alternatively, if a fabric is used as one of layers 16,17, the bond between the layers in
the hinges may be at least partially mechanical, as a result of the resin being squeezed into
opening or pores in the fabric, such that portions of layers 16,17 bond during manufacturing,
resulting in "islands" of bonded layers 15,16,17 disposed between islands of bonded layers
16,17.
[0084]     By minimizing or eliminating the cushioning layer 15 in hinges 38,50, the flexibility of
the hinges is maximized, such that the entire pad 200 is capable of bending, flexing, folding and
twisting in a variety of direction. For example, pad 200 bending or flexing along the hinges
38,50 by as much as 180 degrees in the direction of arrow "A," as shown in FIG. 5. In the
opposite direction "B," the flexibility is limited only by the thickness and spacing of the
medallions.
[0085]     In the present embodiment, the presence of the continuous bond between the inner and
outer layers 16,17 in the hinges 38,50 is advantageous because it "locks" the medallions in place,
minimizing or preventing the egress of cushioning material from the pad or, alternatively,
minimizing or preventing the ingress of materials, such as fluids, into the pads. Therefore, the
hinges 38,50 stabilize the pads, particularly the cushioning material, such that fluids and other
materials are not able to penetrate the pad, which might otherwise lead to delamination.
[0086]     Another exemplary cushioning pad 300 according to the present disclosure is
illustrated in FIGS. 7-9, when taken together. Pad 300 is similar in construction to pad 200, and
additionally comprises a hinge 60 disposed between medallions 32a,b. Like hinges 38,50, the
addition of hinge 60 increases the capability of pad 300 to bend, flex, fold and twist in a variety
of directions.
[0087]     Another exemplary cushioning pad 400 according to the present disclosure is
illustrated in FIGS. 10-11, when taken together. Pad 400 is similar in construction to pad 300,
                                                   18

and additionally comprises two concentric hinges 38a,b, defining concentric medallions 18b,c
disposed around a center medallion 18a. Like hinges 38,50,60, the addition of concentric hinges
38a,b increases the capability of pad 300 to bend, flex, fold and twist in a variety of directions,
particularly in the elbow joint region.
[0088]      The size, shape, configuration, orientation and dimensions of the pad, medallions,
medallion contours, hinges, grooves and flange may be varied as desired in order to achieve the
desired characteristics for the pad design. All of the foregoing features, alone or in combination,
are designed to facilitate the flexibility of the pad either inwardly or outwardly to conform to a
user's body during movement. However, it should be understood that in each of the foregoing
embodiments, and in any pad according to the present disclosure, all of the foregoing
measurements can vary depending on the desired characteristics and design of the pad.              For
example, the pads are designed to provide a variety of characteristics such as, but not limited to,
cushioning, vibration dampening and/or impact absorption, and the like. The characteristics of
the pad may be varied by changing the thickness and/or material type of cushioning layer 15 in
the medallions, changing the spacing between the medallions (i.e., the width of the hinges),
and/or changing the contours of the medallions, and the like.          For example, using a gel for
cushioning layer 15 provides a pad with cushioning and vibration dampening characteristics;
using a foam decreases the weight of the pad; using a rate dependent or impact absorbing foam
increases the impact absorption of the pad; etc.         In general, increasing the thickness of the
cushioning layer 15 in the medallions generally increases the foregoing characteristics; and using
a combination of materials for cushioning layer 15 may provide a combination of characteristics.
[0089]     In each of the foregoing embodiments, and in any pad according to the present
disclosure, the hinges are designed provide flexibility to the pad in targeted areas in which
flexibility is desired or needed.    Using curved, parallel and/or intersecting hinges allows the
flexibility of the pad to be tailored to specific functions, such as protecting joints during motion.
The width, depth, orientation and position of the hinges may vary, depending on a number of
factors including, but not limited to, the desired amount and location of flexibility for the pad.
                                                   19

[0090]     The flexibility of the hinges can be varied, by varying the thickness of the material in
the hinge regions. For example, decreasing the thickness of the material in the hinges increases
the flexibility of the pad, and increasing the thickness of the material in the hinge regions
decreases the flexibility. In some embodiments that include one or both of the inner and outer
layers 16,17, it is possible to "squeeze" the cushioning layer 15 in the hinges to minimize or
eliminate the amount of material in the hinge region. In such embodiments, maximum flexibility
can be achieved when the thickness of the cushioning layer 15 approaches zero in the hinges, or
when the pad is molded without cushioning layer 15 in the hinges 38. For example, when using
inner and outer layers 16,17 with thicknesses of about 4 mils, it is possible to achieve hinge
thicknesses approaching 8 mils, or approaching the combined thickness of the inner and outer
layers 16,17, by removing as much cushioning material 15 from the hinge area, as is possible
during the molding process.
[0091]     Thus, maximum protection may be achieved using a hinge depth of less than about 20
% of the medallion thickness, more particularly less than about 10 % of the medallion thickness,
and more particularly still less than about 5 % of the medallion thickness. Successful parts have
been made with hinge depths of 0.020", 0.040" and up to 0.080".
[0092]    When the pads are molded with a front layer, a back layer, or both layers, the
maximum pad flexibility may be achieved when the hinge thickness approximately corresponds
to the combined thickness of the layer(s) other than layer 15, or when the thickness of the
cushioning layer 15 approaches zero.
[0093]    Deep hinges can also have some foam thickness, and still provide great mobility. As
noted below, one feature of the present protective pads is that the outer and/or inner layers can
protect the cushioning layer from breaking at the relatively thin hinge regions during repetitive
flexing, so the foam thickness is not limited by the foam flex strength, as long as the foam is
bonded to either or both inner and outer layers.
[0094]    In each of the foregoing embodiments, and in any pad according to the present
disclosure, the width of the hinges, or spacing between the medallions, is designed allow the pad
                                                 20

to bend as much as possible, while still retaining the protective characteristics of the medallions.
Therefore, the spacing between the medallions can be determined by the amount of distance
needed to have a flexible hinge, without exposing too much space between the medallions, such
that injuries would occur when the gap between the medallions is impacted. Thus, maximum
protection may be achieved using a hinge width of less than about 20% of the medallion
thickness, more particularly less than about 10% of the medallion thickness, and more
particularly still less than about 5% of the medallion thickness. As noted above, the use of
angled or saw-toothed shaped hinges and/or grooves (not illustrated) can also reduce the amount
of exposed unprotected surface.
[0095]     In each of the foregoing embodiments, and in any pad according to the present
disclosure, the grooves 42 are designed allow the pad to bend in targeted areas. The width,
depth, orientation and position of the grooves 42 may vary, again depending on a number of
factors including, but not limited to, the desired amount of bending for the pad and/or medallion
in which the groove is formed. The grooves 42 are designed to be thicker than the hinge areas,
but thinner than the medallions, at the thickest point of the medallions. Thus, groove thickness
can range from about 10 percent (%) to 95% of the medallion thickness, about 20% to about       75%
of the medallion thickness, and more particularly still about 50% of the medallion thickness.
[0096]     As noted above, the outer and inner layers 16,17 are optional, but they may be
desirable for many reasons, particularly when the cushioning layer 15 is a cellular material,
and/or is a material that does not easily retain its shape.
[0097]     For example, in the embodiments described above, both the outer and inner layers
16,17 are continuously bonded to cushioning layer 15 across the entire pads, including in the
hinges. Depending on the construction of the pad, the outer and inner layers may be bonded to
cushioning layer 15, or they may be bonded to each other, when the amount of material in the
hinges is minimized or eliminated.       One significant advantage of bonding the front layer to
cushioning layer 15 is to provide a continuous, uninterrupted surface above and below
cushioning layer 15 i.e., to encapsulate cushioning layer 15, other than at the perimeter of the
pad. The continuous upper and lower layers strengthen the hinge and groove areas, minimizing
                                                   21

breakage in the hinges and/or grooves, which may otherwise occur due to the flexing of the pad
during use, because the hinges and/or grooves are thinner than the medallions.           At least one
bonded layer may be used for the protection of the thin hinge areas during flexing.                 A
thermoplastic polyurethane film, when used as the outer layer 16, is particularly good at
preventing cracking or breaking of layer 17 in the hinges or grooves. The inner layer can also
provide strength to the hinges or grooves if bonded to the foam, or in many embodiments, both
inner and outer layers are bonded to the foam. In cases where the hinge thickness is very low,
especially with little or no film in the hinge, both inner and outer bonded layers are desirable to
maintain the structural integrity of the pads.    It is desirable to use a material with substantial
elasticity for the inner and outer layers, such as TPE films, spandex fabrics, and the like.        In
some embodiments, the use of a fabric with a laminated film backing may be desirable as an
inside or outside layer. An inner layer that is a laminate of a fabric and a film, such as a
polyurethane film laminate, can be very desirable for maximizing the durability of the hinges.
[0098]     As described above, another aspect of the present disclosure is the integration of the
above-described pad into garments, particularly compression garments, to protect specific areas
of the body. When one of the foregoing pads is integrated into a compression sleeve or garment
that is tightly fitting to the wearer, the hinged and/or grooved multilayer pad structure is sewn,
adhered or otherwise attached to a spandex fabric or otherwise stretchable material in such a way
that the hinged pads are held in form fitting contact with the area to be protected. The pad can be
sewn to the inside or outside of a garment. It may be desirable to have the pad cover only a
portion of the full circumference of the sleeve, so that the sleeve can still stretch significantly to
fit the wearer.     The integration of the uniquely hinged protective pad with the compression
garment offers particular synergies by creating a simple way to add a significant impact
absorbing pad to specific body areas, without altering the entire garment.
[0099]     FIG. 12 shows a compression sleeve 500 comprising a cushioning pad 300, attached to
the body 64 of the sleeve 500. As shown, the pad 300 is attached to the sleeve 500 by stitching
the perimeter flange 40 to the body 64 of the sleeve 500, such that in use, the position of the
center medallion 18 corresponds to the user's elbow. In use, when the user's arm is bent, the
combination of the flexible hinges 38 and grooves 42 allow the pad to conform to the bent
                                                  22

configuration of the user's arm, while maintaining the position of center medallion 18 relative to
the elbow.
 [00100]   When the pad is integrated with a compression sleeve, some unique properties and
advantages are provided in comparison to other methods of protecting moving joints. When
integrated into a compression sleeve, the pad can be in continuous intimate contact with the joint
to be protected, which may be desirable when protecting flexible joints such as knees, elbows,
shoulders and ankles, because properly designed hinges allow the protective sleeves to naturally
remain in the correct position and orientation. When hinges are properly designed, the protective
compression sleeve moves as one with the arm, allowing much wider range of motion than
traditional padding.
 [00101]   Also, with the protective sleeve in intimate contact with the joint and skin, there is no
additional impact caused by the pad hitting the skin or joint after impact from an outside object.
 Stiffer pads may not be capable of being in continuous contact with the specific body area or
joint, because they are not flexible or form-fitting. If not form-fitted, the pads may become part
of the impact that injures the wearer. Pads in a sleeve configuration are uniquely better able to
protect a moving joint, because they can wrap around a wide radius, and in some instances
provide 360 degrees of protection by wrapping the entire joint. In general, it is desirable to leave
some area of the compression sleeve without the additional padding layers, to allow the sleeve to
stretch and conform better to the arm.
 [00102]   FIG. 13 shows a compression shirt 600 comprising a cushioning pad 300, attached to
the body 80 of the shirt 600. As shown, the pad 300 is attached to the shirt 600 by stitching the
perimeter flange 40 to the body 80 of the shirt 500, such that the position of the center medallion
 18 corresponds to the center of the user's chest. In use, the combination of the flexible hinges 38
and grooves 42 allow the pad 300 to conform to the user's chest region, maintaining the pad 300
in close proximity to the user body, thereby maximizing the impact-absorption capability of the
pad 300 when the user is subject to an impact in the chest region.
                                                  23

[00103]   The garments can also be made from a wicking fabric that is designed to move
moisture away from the skin layer.
[00104]   The present pads also may be designed to enhance air and/or moisture transmission,
without significantly compromising protection, which is not an option with other protective
padding. The hinges, grooves and/or medallions may comprise perforations (not illustrated),
which enhances moisture or air transmission rates. The use of a wicking fabric as the inner layer
or in combination with a TPE film layer as the inner layer, can enhance comfort as well and wick
moisture through the hinges. Also, the use of a high moisture vapor transmissive ("MVT") film
layer can further enhance comfort. Such films can function by chemical absorption/desorption.
Examples of such films are available under the product name Sympatex, or TX1540 from
Omniflex. The use of microporous high MVT films such as Goretex or Porelle (by Porvair) can
also be used, or other similar films.
[00105]   In some embodiments, the pads may be formed such that the foam has a generally
uniform density throughout the pad. Specifically, in some instances it may be desirable not to
compress the foam in the grooves or hinges during molding or forming, because the compression
increases the density of the foam, which tends to reduce the range of motion and provide non
uniform padding levels by eliminating foam. The contoured medallions and variations in foam
thickness not only provide an aesthetically pleasing pad, but they also provide maximal
protection where protection is most needed, and less protection where less is needed. By using
uniform foam density and varying thickness where needed, the weight of the pad is reduced, and
the range of motion is increased.     Using thermoforming or compression to take foam and
compress areas to shape may increase density in those areas and create additional weight, uneven
protection and less range of motion.
[00106]   The present pads may be manufactured using techniques disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
7,827,704 and U.S. Publication Nos. US 2008/0034614 and US 2009/0255625, which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The molds for the present pads are designed to
allow layers 15,16,17 to be compressed together under conditions sufficient to minimize or
                                                 24

eliminate the foam in the hinges 38,50,60, for certain embodiments of the pads, while allowing
the layers to bond together, which may be a chemical, thermal and/or mechanical bond.
[00107]    The pad construction, with inner and outer film layers, allow the manufacturer to make
the gaps between sections of the pad smaller, because it is not necessary to use fabric to locate
and position the pad. It also allows the manufacturer to angle and shape these grooves and
hinges in the most appropriate way to cover and protect the wearer fully while stretching, fitting,
and remaining in place during the activity.
[00108]    The ability to create an exposed protective foam pad, in contrast to a pad enclosed in a
pocket, enclosed in fabric or flexible film provides a unique and critical ability to offer protection
for individuals wearing supportive or corrective braces, such as knee braces, ankle supports, back
supports, and the like. Thus, the pads can be attached or adhered to mechanical supports to
protect adaptive mobility athletes from themselves and from other athletes with similar braces.
Similarly, the design of pads according to the present disclosure can be customized and adhered
to braces worn by conventionally mobile athletes. This provides protection to both the wearer of
the brace but also other athletes who come in contact with the corrective brace. One example of
such a brace is the padding on knee braces used in professional football.
[00109]    The present pads can also be used on shin guards worn by youth, adult and
professional soccer players. The properties of impact absorbing foam padding in combination
with form fitting garments provides unique and highly accurate protection of targeted body parts.
Therefore, one embodiment of this disclosure is flexible, form-fitting breathable shin and ankle
guards for soccer players. Significantly, such shin and ankle guards provide more protection to
soccer players due to the closer fit of the foam, more comfort from the wicking materials,
venting and perforation used in construction, and a more durable product than, for example, non
breathable, hard plastic pad held in place with straps or friction of the user's sock.
[00110]    The foam padding and other layers as noted earlier can be designed with perforations
either throughout the material, or within the groove or hinge areas, without significant
deterioration of the protection.    The fact that all layers of the pad are continuously bonded
                                                 25

together, in some embodiments, allows the transpiration of water vapor to pass more easily
through pre-established pathways. Once the moisture is wicked into the fabric layer, it can be
channeled out through the pads because the surfaces are bonded. This is an important distinction
from other pads, which have one or more of the layers free floating, making them more
uncomfortable to wear.
[00111]    Pads comprising continuous inner and outer layers that are bonded to cushioning layer
15 in the medallions, hinges and grooves, provide free range of motion and a durable pad,
because it allows the pad to flex and hinge along with the specific area of the body without
degradation.     The fact that the pad has a continuous inner surface, outer surface or both,
maintains the orientation and position of the hinges, as well as the spacing. The present pads are
in contrast to pads and garments in which foam has been cut, scored, or molded in separate
pieces, to form the hinges, which can allow too much stretch between the pads and allow injury
to the user. The present protective pads allow the fixed orientation of the pads. This feature may
be less desirable for application in which significantly moving joint areas are not being
protected, and are just making generalized shirt or pant padding.
[00112]    The integration of the pad into a compression or form-fitting garment allows protection
to specific areas of the body including joints; the protection is not just from outside impact. Use
of such compression or form-fitting garments with the present pads keeps the pad from
separating from the skin prior to impact, which may cause secondary impact to the body.
[00113]    In certain embodiments, the fact that the outside surface (fabric or film) is (in some
embodiments) the actual outside surface of the garment or sleeve, is an important distinction.
Pads that have unbonded fabric or other covering sewn across the outside, covering the padding,
allow slippage of the outer layer across the padding on impact, which affects the precision of the
impact protection. When wearing the current garments, the wearer has the pad on the exterior of
a form-fitted garment, and enjoys more accurate protection of the specific body area or joint.
Having the exposed outer layer of the present disclosure pad as the outside layer of the garment
or sleeve     (as shown in FIGS. 12 and 13), also allows improved moisture or air flow
management, which is superior to cut foam pieces with any form of loose cover. Precision air
                                                  26

channels and perforations in some embodiments allows less heat and moisture build-up.               In
addition, embodiments with the outside surface of the pad exposed allow for the inside of a form
fitting garment to lie flat against the user's skin, as the inside surface of the pad can generally be
flat. When attached to the outside of an elastic fabric, the user can have an uninterrupted layer of
elastic fabric or other material against the skin. This allows the pad to closely hug the skin
surface, and also to have a more seam-free interior surface which is less likely to cause abrasions
or irritations to the skin.
[00114]     Use of the pads exposed on the surface also provides for more ability to make hinges
or grooves tighter and/or smaller because an add-on external material could otherwise block
proper hinging by filling in the hinge spaces and interfering with the movement of the hinges.
The grooves and hinges can also be angled and shaped in specific designs to cover and protect
the subject more precisely. The creation of specific and more aerodynamic shapes can also be
made on the garment surface using the present pads. The aerodynamic surface, combined with
protection, can be an advantage in sports such as ski racing, in which the wearer would be
protected, for example from impacts with gates, while having enhanced lower wind resistance.
Other sports can benefit from improved aerodynamics, such as bike racing.
[00115]     Use of the present impact absorbing pads, when exposed on the surface of a garment,
allows the impact absorbing foam to react faster, because there are no unnecessary layer(s)
between the foam and impact. This can be a desirable feature when using "rate dependent"
impact absorbing foams, such as Poron XRD, or other such materials. These materials stiffen on
impact, and the use on the exposed surface with only a single layer of bonded film or other
material between foam, and the object impacting the pad allows the foams to react better and
more quickly.
[00116]     In some embodiments, the use of film, particularly polyester polyurethane film, as the
outside layer of a pad attached to a sleeve or garment, creates a durable and more cleanable pad
system. The exterior surface, with the film exposed, can be both durable and dirt resistant.
Fabric as a top layer, whether sewn or otherwise attached, can rip and tear or get dirty, and in
these complex garments, can be difficult to clean. Fabric and/or film that is continuously bonded
                                                   27

as an inner or outer layer, either together in the hinge areas, or to the cushioning material in the
medallions, would be more durable than unbonded sewn fabric used in many pads, in which a
torn outer garment exposes the pad meant to protect the wearer to dislocation or removal from
the garment. In the embodiments of the present disclosure that use a fabric layer as the inner or
outer layer, a film layer inside the fabric can also minimize and/or prevent dirt or liquid from
infiltrating or penetrating the foam.
[00117]     The fact that the pads in many embodiments are molded with uniform density of foam
padding (i.e., not higher density compressed foam) allows more precise design of the protection,
and greater range of motion than varied densities caused by compression.
[00118]     The present pads, clothing and methods of manufacture are advantageous for many
reasons.    For example, a single continuous pad with many elements provides an economic
advantage over traditional pad construction techniques, by eliminating labor-intensive cutting,
scoring or thermoforming that may otherwise be required for end garment construction.
[00119]     The use of bonded hinges that approach zero thickness for cushioning layer 15 is very
unique. In such near zero thickness hinge areas, the top surface of the outer layer is still bonded
to the inner layer throughout the hinge that can allow dramatically improved range of motion in
specific, selected areas. As noted, hinge areas can be anywhere from near zero thickness (less
than 0.001" (1 mil) of foam) or much higher, provided that they are less than the thicker areas of
cushioning material. Some embodiments have hinge areas near zero while others are at 0.010"
(10 mils), 0.020" (20 mils) or even 0.080" (80 mils) or 0.120" (120 mils). The combination of
both hinge and groove areas in multiple orientations allows the formation of pads that combine
the full range of motion where needed, but protective padding in other areas where less flex is
required.
[00120]     The use of a bonded inner layer with elasticity and a bonded outer layer with elasticity
is also desirable in embodiments where stretch is desired, such as when the cushioning pad is
attached to a stretch garment.
                                                  28

[00121]    Where near the thickness of the hinge areas approaches zero, or in thin hinge areas
(less than 0.100" (1 mil) foam), the fact that the entire pad has a continuously bonded inner or
outer layer (or both) maintains spacing and prevents separation of an unprotected area. This is in
contrast to pads in which separate cut pieces are used to create the pad, because the cut pieces
can separate under duress and allow the user to be exposed, and possibly injured.
[00122]    In some embodiments, the use of narrow hinge spacing has proved desirable to prevent
exposed areas when the joint is flexed in certain ways.        The present disclosure allows very
narrow hinges, or very narrow spacing between medallions, without the danger of the hinge
separating during use.
[00123]    Some embodiments, which are designed for joints, comprise a central medallion (e.g.,
center circular medallion, bulls-eye medallion, polygonal medallion, and the like), that is
surrounded by concentric hinges.       The center medallion can be used to properly locate and
position the pad, such that the central medallion is located over the joint (e.g., elbow bone).
[00124]    The flexible nature, durability and dual-film layer construction of the protective
padding is suited to providing protection to individuals that wear supportive and corrective
braces, including but not limited to knee braces, ankle braces and back supports.
[00125]    The use of multiple levels of hinges and grooves in multiple orientations in some
embodiments is both desirable and unique.
[00126]    The present pads can be manufactured to provide better protection to specific body
areas while being lightweight, which is a significant advantage to athletes and active individuals.
[00127]    One advantage of the present protective pads is that an entire flexing region can be
protected by one large pad or several large pads designed specifically for a certain part of the
body, rather than smaller cut pads or strips that is sewn into a garment. The integrated large pad
is both more economical, and also prevents shifting of the cut or strips of pads that would cause
gaps in protection. In addition to providing better and more accurate protection than current
                                                 29

products, the present protective pads allow the entire durable pad to be exposed, which can be
both an aesthetic advantage and weight savings, and can make the pad more comfortable with
better moisture or air transmission. By exposed, it is meant that it is not necessary to put the
pads in pockets, or to sew the pads into pockets, where they would remain loose in the pocket.
Instead, the present pads are attached directly to an underlying material by sewing.
[00128]    Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other methods of attachment may
be used, but it has been found that sewing provides certain advantages.          In contrast to heat
sealing or welding, it has been found that sewing the cushioning pads in place along the
perimeter flange prevents or minimizes the pads from separating from the garment, which is
advantageous in comparison to pads that are loose within the garment (i.e., held loosely in
pockets designed to contain the pads), or that are attached by welding, heat sealing, and the like.
[00129]    In addition, exceptionally durable cushioning pads can be made according to the
present disclosure, comprising inner and outer film layers, with cushioning material between the
film layers, defined by hinges with a "near zero" thickness of cushioning material between the
inner and outer layers, and that terminate at the outer edge with the combination of a near-zero
perimeter hinge adjacent to a perimeter flange with a relatively low thickness of cushioning
material disposed between the inner and outer layers.          The foregoing pads are exceptional
durable, and can withstand repeated commercial laundering. In such pads, when incorporated
into garments, it is theorized that the thickness of the perimeter flange (e.g., about 20 mils)
provides a sturdier region for stitching, which would otherwise would fray and rip without the
cushioning material if unsupported by the 20 mil perimeter flange.          Moreover, the perimeter
flange makes a more attractive product, with a softer edge than is possible by terminating with
the film at the perimeter of the cushioning pad.
[00130]    It is also thought that the near-zero hinges throughout the pad allow the pad contribute
to the durability of the pad during the washing cycle, because the foam material in the hinges is
so thin, that a cellular structure no longer exists. Thus, the stitched perimeter flange prevents or
minimizes the pad from lifting off in repeated washing, i.e., locking down the perimeter of the
cushioning pad.
                                                  30

[00131]     In addition, the continuous bonding of the inner and outer films either to the
cushioning material in the medallion regions, or to each other in the hinges, prevents or
minimizes the chance of fluid or other materials from getting into the pad, and of the cushioning
material from escaping from the pads. In combination, both features enhance the durability of
the many pads in rigorous conditions, eliminating or preventing completely the delamination of
layers, as occurs in other products. It is thought that the perimeter flange and adjacent near zero
hinge prevent or minimize fluid and/or particulates from infiltrating the pads beyond the
perimeter flange, because the foam has been removed almost completely from the hinge area,
and without the cellular structure of the foam in the hinge area, fluid and/or particulates cannot
migrate past the perimeter flange.         Therefore, the perimeter hinge acts as a buffer to the
infiltration of fluid and/or particulates into the pad.
[00132]     Similarly, the "network" of hinges throughout the cushioning pads, particularly when
the hinges are "near zero" hinges, further improves the durability of the pads, because
eliminating and/or minimizing the foam, or other cushioning material in the hinge area, increases
the bond strength in the hinges. The bond strength is increased in the hinge area because the
remaining cushioning material in the hinge areas is insufficient to support the foam structure (in
the case of a foam). If foam remains in the hinges, the bond strength may be limited to the foam
tear strength. Thus, when the thickness of the foam, or other cushioning material, is minimized,
the bond in the hinges increases, because there are no thin foam cell walls to tear. That is,
without a cellular foam structure in the hinges, there is no space for fluid and/or particulate
penetration beyond the perimeter flange. As a result, if a single medallion or hinge is damaged
or compromised, damage to the entire pad is minimized or compartmentalized, because the
damage may extend only to the adjacent pad and/or hinge.
[00133]     Another advantage of the present pads is that the combination of deep hinges and less
deep grooves, or multi-level hinging, provides a protective garments with improved protection,
while maintaining a significant range of motion in the protected area. The use of connected top,
bottom or both layers allows for the more precise use of the hinges and grooves, and keeps the
individual medallions from moving relative to one another. In addition, the integration with
                                                    31

stretchable form-fitting garment material results in significant wrapping of the protected area and
keeps the exterior pad in continuous contact with the specific area of the body.
EXAMPLE 1
[00134]    A cushioning pad was molded to form an elbow pad according to design shown in FIG.
1. The materials used were PORON for cushioning layer 15 (bright yellow color), a stretchable
fabric (black) for inner layer 17 having a thickness of about 19 mils, and a transparent
polyurethane TPE film layer 16 having a thickness of about 4 mils.                  After molding,
measurements of combined thickness in cross-section were taken, as shown below in Table A.
                                             TABLE A
                             Location                             Thickness
                                                        thousands of an inch (mils)
                 Center Medallion 18                         0.250" (250 mils)
                 Right Side Medallion 32                     0.250" (250 mils)
                 Channels/Hinges 38                           0.040" (40 mils)
                 Groove 42 (thinnest region)                 0.129" (129 mils)
                 Groove 42 (thickest region)                 0.141" (141 mils)
                 Perimeter flange 40                           0.040 (40 mils)
[00135]    In this example, the mold was not designed to compress the layers during molding so
as to remove the foam from the hinge area. A visual inspection of the pad shows that the front of
the pad is uniformly bright yellow in color, as would be expected if foam remained in the hinge
area. The resulting hinges were flexible, but not so much as to be "floppy."
EXAMPLE 2
[00136]    A cushioning pad was molded to form an elbow pad according to design shown in FIG.
7, using the same materials used in Example 1. After molding, measurements of combined
thickness in cross-section were taken, as shown below in Table B.
                                                32

                                              TABLE B
                             Location                              Thickness
                                                          thousands of an inch (mils)
                 Center Medallion 18                           0.250" (250 mils)
                 Right Side Medallion 32                       0.250" (250 mils)
                 Groove 42 (thinnest region)                    0.129" (129 mil)
                 Groove 42 (thickest region)                   0.141" (141 mils)
                 Hinges 38, 50                                  0.023" (23 mils)
                 Perimeter flange 40                            0.040" (40 mils)
[00137]    In this example, the mold was designed to compress the material in the hinge regions
during molding so as to eliminate or minimize the amount of foam (in cushioning layer 15) from
the hinge areas.    A visual inspection of the pad shows that the medallions and flange were
uniformly bright yellow in color, as would be expected if foam remained in those areas, whereas
the hinges were uniformly black, as would be expected if as much foam as possible was removed
or squeezed from the hinge areas during manufacture.           The resulting hinges were extremely
flexible, so much so that the pad was "floppy" at the hinges, and foldable by about 180 degrees
at the hinges. In general there are many important distinctions between the present disclosure
and any prior art, but some of the important ones are as follows:
[00138]    It should be noted that the terms "first," "second," and the like herein do not denote any
order or importance, but rather are used to distinguish one element from another, and the terms
"a" and "an" herein do not denote a limitation of quantity, but rather denote the presence of at
least one of the referenced items. Similarly, it is noted that the terms "bottom" and "top" are used
herein, unless otherwise noted, merely for convenience of description, and are not limited to any
one position or spatial orientation. In addition, the modifier "about" used in connection with a
quantity is inclusive of the stated value and has the meaning dictated by the context (e.g.,
includes the degree of error associated with measurement of the particular quantity).
[00139]    Compounds are described herein using standard nomenclature.             For example, any
position not substituted by an indicated group is understood to have its valency filled by a bond
                                                   33

as indicated, or a hydrogen atom A dash ("-") that is not between two letters or symbols is used
to indicate a point of attachment for a substituent. For example, - CHO is attached through the
carbon of the carbonyl group. Unless defined otherwise herein, all percentages herein mean
weight percent ("wt.%"). Furthermore, all ranges disclosed herein are inclusive and combinable
(e.g., ranges of "up to about 25 weight percent (wt.%), with about 5 wt.% to about 20 wt.%
desired, and about 10 wt.% to about 15 wt.% more desired," are inclusive of the endpoints and
all intermediate values of the ranges, e.g., "about 5 wt.% to about 25 wt.%, about 5 wt.% to
about 15 wt.%", etc.). The notation "+/-10% means that the indicated measurement may be from
an amount that is minus 10% to an amount that is plus 10% of the stated value.
[00140]    Finally, unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as is commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which this disclosure
belongs.
[00141]    While the disclosure has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments, it
will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents
may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In
addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the
teachings of the disclosure without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is
intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best
mode contemplated for carrying out this disclosure, but that the disclosure will include all
embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.
                                                 34

CLAIMS
1. A joint protection device comprising:
    a garment configured to be worn by a user; and
    a cushioning pad attached to the garment, the pad comprising:
         a first cushioning region configured to be positioned over a joint of the user;
         one or more second cushioning regions disposed between the first cushioning region and a
    perimeter of the cushioning pad;
         a continuous upper layer and a continuous lower layer at least partially bonded to the continuous
    upper layer, wherein at least one of the upper layer and the lower layer is a polymeric film;
         a cushioning material disposed between and bonded to the upper layer and the lower layer in the
    first cushioning region and the one or more second cushioning regions; and
         one or more grooves between the first cushioning region and the one or more second cushioning
    regions, the one or more grooves enabling radial articulation of the one or more second cushioning
    regions relative to the first cushioning region.
2.       The joint protection device of claim 1 wherein the first cushioning region comprises a central
medallion and a first crescent-shaped medallion disposed adjacent to the central medallion on a first side
of the central medallion and a second crescent-shaped medallion disposed adjacent to the central
medallion in opposition to the first crescent-shaped medallion.
3.       The joint protection device of claim 1 wherein the first cushioning region comprises a polygonal
medallion.
4.       The joint protection device of claim 1 wherein the first cushioning region comprises a polygonal
medallion and the one or more second cushioning regions comprise a plurality of second cushioning
medallions, wherein each of the second cushioning medallions has a shape that is different than at least
one other second cushioning medallion adjacent to it.
5.       The joint protection device of claim 1 wherein the grooves enable the pad to flex forward and
backwards, while preserving a fixed distance between the first cushioning region and the second
cushioning regions.
                                                     35

6.        The joint protection device of claim 1 wherein the one or more grooves comprise a combination
of curved grooves and linear grooves.
7.        The joint protection device of claim 7 wherein the cushioning material is further disposed in the
one or more grooves.
8.        The joint protection device of claim 7, wherein in at least one of the one or more grooves, a
continuous, direct bond is formed between the upper layer and the lower layer to encapsulate the
cushioning material.
9.        The joint protection device of claim 7 further comprising a perimeter flange positioned along the
perimeter of the pad.
10.       The joint protection device of claim 10 wherein the perimeter flange is separated from the one or
more second cushioning regions by a perimeter hinge, the perimeter hinge being formed by direct
bonding of the upper layer and the lower layer.
11.       The joint protection device of claim 10 wherein the cushioning pad is attached to the garment by
stitching through the perimeter flange.
12.       The joint protection device of claim 12 wherein the garment has a body facing side and an
opposing outer side, and wherein the cushioning pad is disposed on the outer side of the garment.
13. A joint protection device comprising:
     a form fitting sleeve configured to be worn over a joint, the sleeve having an inner side and an
opposing outer side;
     a cushioning pad disposed on the outer side of the sleeve, the pad comprising:
          an elongated body and opposing lateral extensions on each side of the elongated body;
          a first cushioning region disposed along the elongated body;
          second cushioning regions disposed along the lateral extensions; and
          a continuous upper layer and a continuous lower layer at least partially bonded to the continuous
     upper layer, wherein at least one of the upper layer and the lower layer is a polymeric film;
          a cushioning material disposed between and bonded to the upper layer and the lower layer in the
     first cushioning region and the one or more second cushioning regions; and
                                                  Page 36 of 5
BOS 48344630v1

         one or more grooves between the first cushioning regions and the one or more second cushioning
     regions, the one or more grooves enabling radial articulation of the lateral extensions relative to the
     elongated body, such that, when the form fitting sleeve is worn over the joint, the first cushioning
     region protects a front of the joint and the second cushioning regions protect sides of the joint.
14.      The joint protection device of claim 14 wherein the first cushioning region comprises multiple
first cushioning medallions having different shapes and being separated from one another by one or more
first grooves.
15.      The joint protection device of claim 15 wherein each of the second cushioning regions comprises
multiple second cushioning medallions having different shapes and being separated from one another by
one or more second grooves.
16.      The joint protection device of claim 14 wherein the first cushioning region comprises multiple
cushioning medallions, wherein each of the cushioning medallions has a shape that is different than at
least one other cushioning medallion adjacent to it.
17.      The joint protection device of claim 18 wherein the cushioning material is further disposed in the
one or more grooves.
18.      The joint protection device of claim 18 wherein at least one groove of the one or more grooves
comprises a direct bond between the upper layer and the lower layer to encapsulate the cushioning
material.
19. A joint protection device comprising:
     a form fitting sleeve configured to be worn over a joint, the sleeve having an inner side and an
opposing outer side;
     a cushioning pad disposed on the outer side of the sleeve, the pad comprising:
     an upper layer, a lower layer and a cushioning layer disposed between and bonded to the upper layer
and the lower layer, wherein at least one of the upper layer and the lower layer is a polymeric film;
     the cushioning layer being disposed in a first cushioning region shaped to be positioned over the joint,
and one or more second cushioning region positioned between the first cushioning region and a perimeter
of the pad and surrounding the first cushioning region;
         one or more grooves separating the first cushioning region from the one or more second
                                                   Page 37 of 5
BOS 48344630v1

cushioning regions to enable radial articulation of the plurality of second cushioning regions relative to
the first cushioning region; and
          a perimeter flange positioned along the perimeter of the pad.
20.       The joint protection device of claim 21 wherein the first cushioning region comprises a central
medallion and a first crescent-shaped medallion disposed adjacent to the central medallion on a first side
of the central medallion and a second crescent-shaped medallion disposed adjacent to the central
medallion in opposition to the first crescent-shaped medallion, wherein the first crescent-shaped
medallion and the second crescent-shaped medallion are separated from the central medallion and from
one another by one or more grooves.
21.       The joint protection device of claim 21 wherein the first cushioning region comprises a central
medallion and one or more concentric medallions concentrically disposed around the central medallion,
wherein the central medallion and one or more concentric medallions are separated by one or more
grooves.
22.       The joint protection device of claim 21 wherein the first cushioning region and the one or more
second cushioning regions comprise a plurality of cushioning medallions, wherein each of the cushioning
medallions has a shape that is different than at least one other cushioning medallion adjacent to it.
23.       The joint protection device of claim 21 wherein the one or more grooves comprise a combination
of curved grooves and linear grooves.
24.       The joint protection device of claim 21 wherein the cushioning material disposed between the
upper layer and the lower layer in the first cushioning region and the one or more second cushioning
regions, and wherein at least one groove of the one or more grooves is formed by a continuous, direct
bond between the upper layer and the lower layer to encapsulate the cushioning material.
25.       The joint protection device of claim 26 wherein the cushioning material is further disposed in at
least one groove of the one or more grooves.
26.       The joint protection device of claim 21 wherein the perimeter flange is separated from the one or
more second cushioning regions by a perimeter hinge, the perimeter hinge being formed by direct
bonding of the upper layer and the lower layer.
                                                  Page 38 of 5
BOS 48344630v1

27.      The joint protection device of claim 28 wherein the cushioning pad is attached to the form fitting
sleeve by stitching through the perimeter flange.
28.      A method for protecting a joint from impact, the method comprising:
         wearing a garment over a joint, wherein a cushioning pad is attached to the garment, the pad
    comprising: a first cushioning region; one or more second cushioning regions extending outwardly
    from the first cushioning region; and one or more grooves between the first cushioning region and the
    one or more cushioning regions; and
         aligning the first cushioning region with the joint;
bending the joint, wherein when the joint is bent, the one or more second cushioning regions conform to
the bent joint, while the first cushioning region is maintains its position over the joint.
                                                  Page 39 of 5
BOS 48344630v1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
