                                         ABSTRACT
A method of inhibiting oxygen in ambient air from entering a water supply system having
at least one ingress point at which a fluid can enter the water supply system includes
supplying an inert gas to the at least one ingress point of the water supply system. The
inert gas enters the water supply system at the at least one ingress point and
substantially inhibits ambient air including oxygen from entering the water supply system
at the at least on ingress point to substantially inhibit oxygen corrosion in the water supply
system. Example pump assemblies for coupling to water supply systems, piping
networks, and water-based fire sprinkler systems for inhibiting ambient air, including
oxygen it may contain, from entering the systems are also disclosed.

                               118
                      100
           116            11410
                                                 102
            108-
                110
                             106             106     FIG. 1
                                  106    104
 2 00 - ,
                           1
216          218             214
                                                   L202
          220
                     222                             FIG. 2
                SL-BSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

  PUMP ASSEMBLIES AND METHODS FOR INHIBITING OXYGEN FROM
                     ENTERING WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
        [0001]       The      entire    disclosure     of    U.S.     Provisional
Application No. 61/789,131 filed March 15, 2013 is incorporated herein by
reference.
        [0002]        The present disclosure relates to pump assemblies and
methods for inhibiting oxygen from entering water supply systems.
        [0003]        This section provides background information related to the
present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.
        [0004]        Water pumps are commonly used in a wide variety of
applications to move water through piping networks and/or increase the pressure
of water in the piping networks. For example, a water-based fire sprinkler system
may include a water pump for supplying high pressure water to sprinklers via a
piping network during a fire event, particularly if the fire sprinkler system is
installed in a multi-story building where water must be supplied to sprinklers at
high elevations.
                                          1

         [0005]  This section provides a general summary of the disclosure, and
is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.
         [0006]   According to one aspect of the present disclosure, a method of
inhibiting oxygen in ambient air from entering a water supply system is provided.
The water supply system has at least one ingress point at which a fluid can enter
the water supply system, when the water supply system is in service. The
method includes supplying an inert gas to the at least one ingress point of the
water supply system. The inert gas enters the water supply system at the at least
one ingress point and substantially inhibits ambient air including oxygen from
entering the water supply system at the at least one ingress point to substantially
inhibit oxygen corrosion in the water supply system.
         [0007]  According to another aspect of the present disclosure, a pump
assembly, such as a water pump assembly, for a water supply system includes a
water pump having at least one ingress point at which a fluid can enter the water
pump, and a housing surrounding the at least one ingress point and defining a
space between the housing and the at least on ingress point. The housing is
adapted for coupling to an inert gas source for supplying an inert gas from the
inert gas source to the space between the housing and the at least one ingress
point to thereby allow the inert gas to enter the water pump at the at least one
ingress point and substantially inhibit ambient air including oxygen from entering
the water pump at the at least one ingress point to substantially inhibit oxygen
corrosion in the water supply system when the water pump is coupled to the
water supply system.
                                         2

        [0008]    According to a further aspect of the present disclosure, a pump
assembly for a water supply system includes a water pump, a gas release valve
coupled to the water pump, and a check valve coupled to the gas release valve.
The gas release valve is adapted to vent gas but not water from the water pump.
The check valve inhibits ambient air including oxygen from entering the water
pump via the gas release valve to substantially inhibit oxygen corrosion in the
water supply system when the water pump is coupled to the water supply
system.
        [0009]     According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure, a
piping network includes a first pipe, a second pipe coupled to the first pipe via a
pipe joint, and a housing. The pipe joint defines an ingress point at which a fluid
can enter the piping network. The housing surrounds the at least on ingress
point and defines a space between the housing at the at least on ingress point.
The housing is adapted for coupling to an inert gas source for supplying an inert
gas from the inert gas source to the space between the housing and the at least
one ingress point to thereby allow the inert gas to enter the piping network at the
at least on ingress point and substantially inhibit ambient air including oxygen
from entering the piping network at the least one ingress point to substantially
inhibit oxygen corrosion in the piping network.
        [0009A]     Preferably, the fluid comprises ambient air including oxygen.
        [0010]       Further aspects and areas of applicability will become
apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that
various aspects of this disclosure may be implemented individually or in
combination with one or more other aspects. It should be understood that the
description and
                                          3

specific examples herein are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not
intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.
                                      DRAWINGS
        [0011]     The drawings described herein are for illustrative purposes only
of selected embodiments and not all possible implementations, and are not
intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.
        [0012]     Fig. 1 is a sectional view of a pump assembly having one or
more ingress points according to one example embodiment of the present
disclosure.
        [0013]     Fig. 2 is a sectional view of a pump assembly having a valve for
controlling the flow of an inert gas according to another example embodiment.
        [0014]     Fig. 3 is a sectional view of a pump assembly having a valve
coupled to a controller according to yet another example embodiment.
        [0015]     Fig. 4 is a sectional view of a pump assembly including a water
pump having a gas release valve according to another example embodiment.
        [0016]     Fig. 5 is a sectional view of a pump assembly having a check
valve coupled to a gas release valve according to yet another example
embodiment.
        [0017]     Fig. 6 is a sectional view of a pump assembly having a drain line
coupled to check valve according to another example embodiment.
        [0018]     Fig. 7 is a sectional view of a pump assembly having a drain line
coupled to a water trap according to still another example embodiment.
                                            4

        [0019]    Fig. 8 is a block diagram of a water-based fire sprinkler system
according to another example embodiment.
        [0020]    Fig. 9 is a sectional view of a pump assembly including a gas
release valve and a check valve according to another example embodiment.
        [0021]    Fig. 10 is a block diagram of a piping network having a pipe joint
defining one or more ingress points according to another example embodiment.
        [0022]    Fig. 11 is a front view of a water supply system having a water
pump, gas release valves and pipe fittings according to another example
embodiment.
        [0023]    Fig. 12 is a flow diagram of a process for operating a water
pump according to another example embodiment.
        [0024]    Fig. 13 is a flow diagram of a process for operating a water
pump according to yet another example embodiment.
        [0025]   Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts
or features throughout the several views of the drawings.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0026]    Example embodiments will now be described more fully with
reference to the accompanying drawings.
        [0027]    Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will
be thorough, and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art.
Numerous specific details are set forth          such as examples       of specific
components, devices, and methods, to provide a thorough understanding of
                                          5

embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the
art that specific details need not be employed, that example embodiments may
be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit
the scope of the disclosure.        In some example embodiments, well-known
processes, well-known device structures, and well-known technologies are not
described in detail.
         [0028]    The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing
particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used
herein, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" may be intended to include the
plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms
"comprises," "comprising," "including," and "having," are inclusive and therefore
specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements,
and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups
thereof. The method steps, processes, and operations described herein are not
to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order
discussed or illustrated, unless specifically identified as an order of performance.
It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.
         [0029]    Although the terms first, second, third, etc. may be used herein
to describe various elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections, these
elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be limited by
these terms.      These terms may be only used to distinguish one element,
component, region, layer or section from another region, layer or section. Terms
                                          6

such as "first," "second," and other numerical terms when used herein do not
imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus, a first
element, component, region, layer or section discussed below could be termed a
second element, component, region, layer or section without departing from the
teachings of the example embodiments.
       [0030]      Spatially relative terms, such as "inner," "outer," "beneath,"
"below," "lower," "above," "upper," and the like, may be used herein for ease of
description to describe one element or feature's relationship to another
element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may
be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation
in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example, if the device in
the figures is turned over, elements described as "below" or "beneath" other
elements or features would then be oriented "above" the other elements or
features. Thus, the example term "below" can encompass both an orientation of
above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented (rotated 90 degrees or
at other orientations) and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted
accordingly.
       [0031]      Corrosion within water-based systems (e.g., water-based fire
sprinkler systems) can be a significant cause of leaks, component failures and
system failures, each of which can require expensive repairs. Chemical reactions
between oxygen, carbon dioxide, etc. and ferrous and cuprous metal pipes may
be a significant cause of corrosion within water-based systems. As such, it is
desirable to inhibit the introduction of oxygen, carbon dioxide, etc. into water
                                           7

based systems in order to prevent such corrosion. For the same reasons, it is
also desirable to inhibit the introduction of ambient air because ambient air
typically contains approximately 21% oxygen gas and 0.04% carbon dioxide.
        [0032]    Many water supply systems including, for example, the piping
network supplying water to a water-based fire sprinkler system, include one or
more ingress points at which fluids such as air, water, etc. can under certain
conditions enter the water supply system. Some example ingress points include
leaky pipe joints, gas release valves, and water pumps having seals or other
components that allow fluids to enter the water supply system.
        [0033]    Points of ingress may permit a substantially continuous flow of
ambient air, including oxygen, into water supply systems. Alternately, points of
ingress may permit the flow of ambient air, including oxygen, into water supply
systems when particular system components are put into service, when particular
maintenance tasks are performed on the systems, when particular conditions
within the systems occur, intermittently, and/or independently of the operation or
maintenance of the systems. It is desirable, therefore, to inhibit the introduction of
ambient air, and oxygen it may contain, into the water supply systems through
such points of ingress in order to prevent the occurrence of corrosion within the
water supply systems, piping networks coupled to or comprised within water
supply systems, and/or water-based fire sprinkler systems including water supply
systems.
        [0034]    Oxygen in ambient air is one example of a fluid that may enter a
water supply system at an ingress point. The oxygen may enter the water supply
                                         8

system with other gases (i.e., oxygen gas as a component of ambient air) and/or
as oxygen dissolved in water. After entering a water supply system, oxygen can
cause significant corrosion of the piping network (as explained above), which
typically includes galvanized steel or black steel piping.       In fact, a dissolved
oxygen concentration in water of only 50 parts per billion may still result in
significant oxygen corrosion within a piping network.
        [0035]    To address these and other issues, the present disclosure
provides a method of inhibiting oxygen in ambient air from entering a water
supply system having at least one ingress point at which a fluid can enter the
water supply system. The method includes supplying an inert gas to the at least
one ingress point of the water supply system.       The inert gas enters the water
supply system at the at least one ingress point and substantially inhibits ambient
air including oxygen from entering the water supply system at the at least one
ingress point to substantially inhibit oxygen corrosion in the water supply system.
        [0036]    The inert gas may be supplied directly to the ingress point(s) or
to an area adjacent the ingress point(s).     For example, a water supply system
may include a gas release valve that is intended to allow gas to exit the system,
but may also allow gas to enter the system. In that event, the inert gas may be
supplied to an area adjacent (e.g., surrounding) the gas release valve.
Therefore, when the gas release valve allows gas to enter the system,
substantially all of the gas that enters will be the inert gas from the surrounding
area, rather than ambient air, which may include oxygen gas. In some example
embodiments, the area adjacent the gas release valve (or other ingress point) is
                                           9

defined by a housing that may enclose the gas release valve. The inert gas may
be supplied to the ingress point(s) intermittently (e.g., as needed), continuously,
etc.
        [0037]     The inert gas may be any gas that does not react with
components of the water supply system, including components comprising steel,
under normal conditions. For example, the inert gas may be purified nitrogen
(i.e., having a nitrogen concentration greater than air, and preferably in the range
of about 80%-99.9% nitrogen), purified argon, a noble gas, etc.
        [0038]     The water supply system may include a water pump defining
one or more ingress points. For example, the water pump may include a seal
that permits, at least to a limited extent, fluid to enter the water supply system. In
that case, the method of inhibiting oxygen in ambient air from entering the water
supply system may include supplying the inert gas to the seal. As a result, when
the seal permits fluid to enter the water pump, substantially all of the fluid that
enters will be the inert gas rather than ambient air, which may include oxygen. In
this manner, oxygen corrosion in the water supply system can be substantially
inhibited.
        [0039]     When operated, e.g., for testing, as a result of a fire event, etc.,
a water pump may create a vacuum relative to the atmospheric pressure of the
ambient air. Such a vacuum may cause a volume of ambient air to enter the
water supply system through points of ingress into the system in and around the
water pump. As a result, ambient air, including oxygen it may contain, may enter
the system and may cause corrosion as explained above. Such a vacuum may
                                           10

be created during the operation of a water pump, after the water pump has
ceased to operate, etc.
        [0040]     Accordingly, the inert gas may be supplied to the ingress
point(s) when the water pump is activated (i.e., when the water pump is operating
and pumping water) and, in some cases, only when the water pump is activated.
Additionally, or alternatively, the inert gas may be supplied to the ingress point(s)
before and/or after the water pump is activated and/or after the water pump is
deactivated. For example, the inert gas may be supplied a defined period of time
before the water pump is activated and/or a defined period of time after the water
pump is deactivated. The duration of such time period(s) can be selected as
desired for any given implementation. In some embodiments, the duration of the
time period(s) are in the range of two to four minutes. Alternatively, longer or
shorter durations may be employed.         Supplying the inert gas before the water
pump is activated and after the water pump is deactivated may be particularly
useful when testing the water supply system.
        [0041]     Additionally, or alternatively, the water supply system may
include a piping network having at least two pipes coupled to one another via a
pipe joint, with the pipe joint defining one or more ingress points. For example,
the pipe joint may include a leaky weld or mechanical fitting that permits, at least
to a limited extent, fluid to enter the water supply system.       In that case, the
method of inhibiting oxygen in ambient air from entering the water supply system
may include supplying the inert gas to the pipe joint. As a result, when the pipe
joint permits fluid to enter the water supply system, substantially all of the fluid
                                           11

that enters will be the inert gas rather than ambient air, which may include
oxygen.
        [0042]    The methods disclosed herein may be employed in a wide
variety of water supply systems, including water supply systems having water
pumps, gas release valves and/or pipe joints, and water supply systems for
water-based fire sprinkler systems.     Some example pump assemblies, piping
networks and sprinkler systems are described below with reference to Figs. 1-11.
It should be understood, however, that the teachings of this disclosure are not
limited to the particular examples shown in Figs. 1-11, and can be applied to a
wide variety of other pumps, networks and systems.
        [0043]    A pump assembly for a water supply system according to one
example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated in Fig. 1 and
indicated generally by reference number 100. As shown in Fig. 1, the pump
assembly 100 includes a water pump 102 having an impeller 104 positioned
within a pump chamber 106. The pump chamber 106 has an inlet (not shown)
for receiving water (e.g., municipal water) and an outlet (not shown) for supplying
water at an increased pressure and/or flow rate to a piping network when the
water pump 102 is coupled to the piping network.
        [0044]    The water pump 102 further includes a shaft 108 for driving
rotation of the impeller 104, and one or more seals 110 for inhibiting water from
escaping the pump chamber 106 (except through the pump chamber outlet).
        [0045]    Each seal 110 may define an ingress point at which a fluid can
enter the water pump 102. For example, if the seals 110 are exposed to ambient
                                         12

air, the seals 110 may permit ambient air, including oxygen it may contain, to
pass between the seals 110 and the shaft 108 and enter the pump chamber 106.
The oxygen could then pass through the pump chamber outlet into the piping
network and cause significant corrosion in the piping network. The water pump
102 may include other ingress point(s) at which a fluid can enter the water pump,
in addition to or instead of the seals 110.
        [0046]      As shown in Fig. 1, the water pump assembly 100 further
includes a housing 112 surrounding the seals 110 (and/or other ingress point(s))
and defining a space 114 therebetween.           The housing 112 is adapted for
coupling to an inert gas source, such as a nitrogen generator or storage vessel
(e.g., a nitrogen cylinder), for supplying an inert gas from the inert gas source to
the space 114 between the housing 112 and the water pump 102. Therefore,
when the seals 110 (or other ingress point(s)) permit fluid to enter the water
pump 102, substantially all of the fluid that enters will be the inert gas rather than
ambient air, which may include oxygen.
        [0047]      The housing 112 may be adapted for coupling to an inert gas
source in any suitable way.        For example, the housing 112 may include an
aperture through which the inert gas can be supplied to the space 114 within the
housing 112. The aperture may be coupled to, e.g., a threaded or non-threaded
pipe fitting.  In the particular example shown in Fig. 1, the pump assembly 100
includes a gas supply line 116 for conveying the inert gas from the inert gas
source to the space 114 within the housing 112.
                                          13

       [0048]     Further, the housing 112 may substantially surround the water
pump 102, as shown in Fig. 1. Alternatively, the housing 112 may surround only
portion(s) of the water pump 102 that include the one or more ingress points.
       [0049]     Fig. 2 illustrates a pump assembly 200 according to another
example embodiment. The pump assembly 200 of Fig. 2 is similar to the pump
assembly 100 of Fig. 1, but includes a gas supply line 216 having an
electromechanically operated valve 218 (e.g., a solenoid valve). The valve 218
is coupled via an electrical cable 220 to an electrical junction box 222 for the
water pump 202. When the water pump 202 is activated (i.e., turned on) and
pumping water, the valve 218 may be automatically opened to allow the inert gas
to flow into the space 214 within the housing 212. When the water pump 202 is
deactivated (i.e., turned off), the valve 218 may be automatically closed to stop
the flow of inert gas. Thus, the valve 218 may be open only when the water
pump 202 is activated.
       [0050]     Alternatively, the pump assembly 200 may include a manually
operated valve instead of or in addition to the electromechanically operated valve
218 explained above.
       [0051]     Fig. 3 illustrates a pump assembly 300 according to another
example embodiment. The pump assembly 300 of Fig. 3 is similar to the pump
assembly 200 of Fig. 2.      However, in the example of Fig. 3, the valve 218 is
coupled to a controller 302, rather than the electrical junction box 222. Thus, the
valve 218 is opened or closed by the controller 302. The controller 302 may be
configured (e.g., via circuit components and/or a processor) to open the valve
                                          14

218 when the water pump 202 is activated and, optionally, only when the water
pump 202 is activated. Additionally, or alternatively, the controller 302 may be
configured to open the valve 218 a defined period of time before the water pump
202 is activated and/or close the valve 218 a defined period of time after the
water pump 202 is deactivated.
        [0052]    The controller 302 may also be configured to open and close
the valve 218 based on, e.g., a sensed oxygen or nitrogen concentration within
the housing 212. To this end, the pump assembly 300 may further include an
oxygen or nitrogen sensor within the housing 212.
        [0053]    Fig. 4 illustrates a pump assembly 400 according to yet another
example embodiment. The pump assembly 400 of Fig. 4 is similar to the pump
assembly 100 of Fig. 1, but includes a gas release valve 402 coupled to the
water pump 102. The gas release valve 402 is preferably adapted to release gas
but not water from the water pump 102 (e.g., to prevent pump cavitation), and
may include a float mechanism that automatically closes the valve 402 when
lifted by water. The gas release valve 402 may define an ingress point at which
a fluid can enter the water pump 102. For example, when the gas release valve
402 is open, gas may enter (rather than exit) the water pump 102. However,
because the gas release valve 402 is positioned in the space 114 defined by the
housing 112, substantially all of the gas that enters the water pump 102 through
the gas release valve 402 will be the inert gas (rather than ambient air, which
may include oxygen).
                                          15

       [0054]      Additionally, the gas release valve 402 may be coupled to a
check valve 502, as shown in Fig. 5, to ensure gas can only exit (and not enter)
the water pump 102 via the gas release valve 402. Although the check valve 502
is shown coupled to the outlet of the gas release valve 402, the check valve may
instead be coupled to the inlet of the gas release valve 402 (i.e., between the gas
release valve 402 and the water pump 102). Further, the check valve 502 may
be a pressure release valve configured to open when the pressure in the water
pump 102 reaches a defined pressure level.
       [0055]      In the example of Fig. 5, the check valve 502 is shown fully
positioned within the housing 112. Therefore, any gas that exits the water pump
102 via the gas release valve 402 will enter the space 114 defined by the
housing 112. Alternatively, an outlet of the check valve 502 may be positioned
external to the housing 112 such that any gas exiting the water pump 102 via the
gas release valve 402 will be released to the environment on the external side of
the housing 112.
       [0056]      Fig. 6 illustrates a pump assembly 600 according to another
example embodiment of the present disclosure. The pump assembly 600 of Fig.
6 is similar to the pump assembly 100 of Fig. 1. However, the assembly 600 of
Fig. 6 includes seals 610 that are lubricated by water and, for this purpose, are
designed to allow small amounts of water to pass by the seals 610 and exit the
pump chamber 606. Therefore, the pump assembly 600 further includes catch
bowls 624 having drain passages 626 connected to drain lines 628 for conveying
the water that passes by the seals 610 to an appropriate location, such as a floor
                                          16

drain.   In known pump assemblies, such drain passages and drain lines may
define ingress points at which fluids (including oxygen from ambient air) can
enter the water pump.      However, the pump assembly 600 of Fig. 6 includes a
check valve 630 coupled to the drain line 628. The check valve 630 allows water
to flow through the check valve 630 in a direction away from the water pump 602,
but prevents ambient air, including oxygen it may contain, and other fluids to
pass through the check valve 630 in a direction towards the water pump 602.
        [0057]    Alternatively, the pump assembly 600 may include another
suitable device to inhibit ambient air, including oxygen it may contain, from
entering the water pump 602 via the drain line 628 and drain passages 626. For
example, the check valve 630 shown in Fig. 6 can be replaced with a trap (e.g., a
P trap), as shown in Fig. 7. It should be understood that, in other embodiments,
the check valve 630 shown in Fig. 6 and the trap shown in Fig. 7 can be
employed without the housing 612 shown in Figs. 6 and 7 and discussed above.
        [0058]    The pump assemblies disclosed herein may be employed in a
wide variety of water supply systems, including water supply systems for water
based fire sprinkler systems.     Fig. 8 illustrates one example embodiment of a
water-based fire sprinkler system 800 including a piping network 802, one or
more sprinklers 804, an inert gas source 806, and a pump assembly 808 coupled
to the piping network 802 and the inert gas source 806.
        [0059]    As shown in Fig. 8, the piping network 802 of Fig. 8 may include
one or more riser(s) 810 and other pipes coupled between the pump assembly
808 and the sprinklers 804. Although Fig. 8 illustrates three risers 810 and two
                                          17

sprinklers 804, more or fewer risers and/or sprinklers may be employed in any
given implementation, as apparent to those skilled in the art of fire sprinkler
systems.    Likewise, the system 800 of Fig. 8 may include numerous other
components such as, for example, various valves (e.g., a dry pipe or wet pipe
valve, shut off valves, etc.), fittings, etc.
        [0060]    The pump assembly 808 receives water from a water source,
such as a municipal water source, as indicated by arrow 812, and pumps water
to the sprinklers 804 via the piping network 802. In doing so, the pump assembly
808 may increase the pressure and/or flow rate of the water as necessary to
meet applicable standards and requirements.         For example, a municipal water
source may have a typical water pressure of about 100 PSI. When activated, the
pump assembly 808 may increase the water pressure within the piping network
802 to about 250 PSI or higher. Such higher pressure(s) may be needed if the
water-based fire sprinkler system 800 is employed in a multi-story building where
water is supplied to sprinklers at higher elevations.
        [0061]    The pump assembly 808 of Fig. 8 may take the form of any of
the various pump assemblies described herein. Accordingly, the pump assembly
808 may include one or more housings surrounding on or more ingress points at
which fluids can enter the water pump, one or more gas release valves, one or
more controllers for controlling the flow of inert gas, drain lines, check valves,
water traps, etc.    The inert gas source 806 may be, for example, a purified
nitrogen storage tank (e.g., a nitrogen cylinder), a nitrogen generator, etc.
                                              18

        [0062]     Fig. 9 illustrates a pump assembly 900 according to another
example embodiment of this disclosure. The pump assembly 900 includes the
water pump 102 of Fig. 1, the gas release valve 402 described above with
reference to Figs. 4 and 5, and the check valve 502 described above with
reference to Fig. 5. The check valve 502 ensures gas can only exit (and not
enter) the water pump 102 via the gas release valve 402. Although the check
valve 502 is shown coupled to the outlet of the gas release valve 402, the check
valve may instead be coupled to the inlet of the gas release valve 402 (i.e.,
between the gas release valve 402 and the water pump 102).                    In other
embodiments, the pump assembly 900 may also include drain line(s) and
additional check valve(s) or water traps to inhibit ambient air, including oxygen it
may contain, from entering the water pump 102 via the drain line(s).
        [0063]     Fig. 10 illustrates a piping network 1000 according to another
example embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 10, the piping
network 1000 includes two pipes 1002, 1004 coupled to one another via a pipe
joint 1006. The pipe joint 1006 may include a leaky weld or mechanical fitting
that permits, at least to a limited extent, fluid to enter the piping network 1000. In
other words, the pipe joint 1006 may define an ingress point.          Accordingly, the
piping network 1000 of Fig. 10 further includes a housing 1008 surrounding the
pipe joint 1006 and defining a space 1010 between the housing 1008 and the
pipe joint 1006.
        [0064]     The housing 1008 is adapted for coupling to an inert gas source
in any suitable manner, including as described above with reference to the
                                           19

housing 112 of Fig. 1. For example, the housing 1008 may be coupled to a gas
supply line 1012 for conveying the inert gas from the inert gas source to the
space 1010 within the housing 1008, as shown in Fig. 10. Therefore, when the
pipe joint 1006 permits fluid to enter the piping network 1000, substantially all of
the fluid that enters will be the inert gas rather than ambient air, including oxygen
it may contain.
        [0065]     The gas supply line 1012 may include an electromechanically
operated valve (e.g., a solenoid valve) coupled to a controller for opening and
closing the valve or otherwise controlling the flow of inert gas into the housing
1008. The valve and controller may be configured, e.g., as described above with
reference to the valve 218 and controller 302 of Fig. 3.
        [0066]     Fig. 11    illustrates an example water supply system 1100
including a pump assembly 1102, pipes 1108, pipe fittings 1110, and gas release
valves 1112. Each pipe fitting 1110 is coupled between two or more of the pipes
1108 and each gas release valve 1112 is coupled to one of the pipes 1108. The
pump assembly 1102 includes a water pump 1104, seals (not shown) and a gas
release valve 1106 coupled to the water pump 1104. The water pump 1104 and
the gas release valves 1106, 1112 may be substantially similar to the water
pump 102 of Fig. 4 and the gas release valve 402 of Fig. 4.
        [0067]     In the example of Fig. 11, ingress point(s) as explained above
may be adjacent some or all of the pipe fittings 1110, defined by some or all of
the gas release valves 1106, 1112, adjacent seals of the water pump 1104, etc.
                                           20

Therefore, the water supply system 1100 may include housings 1114 to surround
one or more of the ingress point(s).
        [0068]    As shown in Fig. 11,     the housings 1114 surround ingress
point(s) adjacent two pipe fittings 1110, ingress point(s) defined by two gas
release valves 1112, and ingress point(s) of the pump assembly 1102.
        [0069]    The housings 1114 may be adapted for coupling to an inert gas
source (not shown) via inert gas supply lines 1116. Thus, inert gas may be
supplied to space between the housings 1114 and the ingress point(s) to thereby
allow the inert gas to enter the water supply system 1100 at the ingress point(s)
and substantially inhibit ambient air, including oxygen it may contain, from
entering the water supply system 1100 at the ingress point(s) to substantially
inhibit oxygen corrosion in the water supply system 1100.
        [0070]    The housings 1114 may be substantial similar to the housing
112 and/or the housing 1008, both of which are explained above. Additionally,
the inert gas supply lines 1116 may be substantially similar to the inert gas
supply line 116 of Fig. 1.
        [0071]    As shown in Fig. 11, the housings 1114 may extend entirely
around one or more of the pipes 1108 and/or partially around one or more of the
pipes 1108.    For example, the housings 1114 surrounding the ingress point(s)
adjacent the pipe fittings 1110 extend entirely around one or more of the pipes
1108 while the housings 1114 surrounding the ingress point(s) defined by the
gas release valves 1112 extend partially around one or more of the pipes 1108.
                                        21

        [0072]     Additionally and/or alternatively, the water supply system 1100
may include one or more of the optional feature(s) explained above. For
example, the water supply system 1100 may include one or more controllers,
drains, check valves, water traps, etc.
        [0073]     As shown in Fig. 11, the pipes 1108 may form by-pass loops to
pass water around the pump assembly 1102. Although three by-pass loops are
shown in Fig. 11, the water supply system 1100 may include more or fewer by
pass loops.
        [0074]     Fig. 12 illustrates one example method 1200 that may be
performed to inhibit ambient air, including oxygen it may contain, from entering a
water supply system by using a pump assembly having a housing that is
substantially similar to the pump assemblies described above. As shown in Fig.
12, an inert gas source is connected to a housing of a pump assembly through a
gas supply line in step 1202. In step 1204, the inert gas source is used to apply a
pressure of inert gas to the housing that is greater than the pressure of the
ambient air in the space within the housing, i.e., a positive pressure. The positive
pressure from the inert gas displaces the ambient air from the space within the
housing and replaces the ambient air (including oxygen that ambient air may
contain) with the inert gas in step 1206. In step 1208, the water pump is
activated, e.g., to test its operation, as part of a fire event, etc. In step 1210, the
water pump is shut off.
        [0075]     Throughout the operation of the water pump and until it is shut
off in step 1210, the inert gas source continues to supply inert gas at a positive
                                           22

pressure to the housing. After the water pump is shut off in step 1210, the inert
gas source continues to maintain positive inert gas pressure within the housing in
step 1212 until the pressure within the water supply system near the housing is
substantially equal to or greater than the pressure of the inert gas within the
housing such that the inert gas is no longer drawn into the water pump or the
water supply system from within the housing. For example, positive inert gas
pressure may be maintained until a predetermined amount of time elapses, until
pressure measurements are within an acceptable level, until a gas flow is no
longer audible, etc. In step 1214, once the pressure within the water supply
system is substantially equal to or greater than the pressure of the inert gas, the
positive pressure provided to the housing by the inert gas source is removed
such that the pressure within the housing may reduce to that of the ambient
atmosphere. As a result, ambient air may gradually mix with the inert gas within
the housing, but will not enter into the water supply system. In step 1216, the
inert gas source is disconnected from the pump assembly housing and/or supply
line.
        [0076]     Fig. 13 illustrates another example method 1300 that may be
performed to inhibit air including oxygen from entering a water supply system by
using a pump assembly having a housing that forms a substantially gas-tight
seal. As shown in Fig. 13, an inert gas source is connected to a pump assembly
having a substantially gas-tight housing surrounding a point of ingress in step
1302. For example, the housing forms a seal with the assembly that substantially
inhibits the flow of gases between the space within the housing and the ambient
                                          23

air outside the housing. In step 1304, the inert gas source is used to apply a
pressure of inert gas to the housing that is greater than the pressure of the
ambient air in the space within the housing, i.e., a positive pressure.
        [0077]     In step 1306 of Fig. 13, the concentration of a gas (an inert gas,
oxygen, or another gas in ambient air) within the housing is compared to a
desired concentration to determine whether the space within the housing is inert.
For example, this comparison may be performed using a gas analyzer, inferred
based on the positive pressure applied, based on a predetermined number of
pressurization and discharge cycles as described below, and the like. If the
desired concentration of gas within the housing has not been reached, the
mixture of gases (e.g., inert gas and ambient air) within the housing is discharged
from within the housing in step 1308 through, e.g., a vent or other suitable
passage. Once the gases are discharged, further positive pressure from the inert
gas source is applied in step 1304 as explained above. This process of
pressurizing with inert gas, discharging the mixture and repeating will eventually
obtain the concentration of inert gas within the housing. If the desired
concentration of gas within the housing has been reached, the space within the
housing contains a suitably inert gas and the source of inert gas can be
disconnected in step 1310. In step 1312, the housing is sealed so that the space
within the housing does not mix with ambient air. In step 1314, the water pump is
activated, e.g., to test its operation, as part of a fire event, etc. In step 1316, the
water pump is shut off.
                                           24

       [0078]       Methods 1200 and 1300 are exemplary only. Although the
methods are described with respect to a pump assembly, similar processes can
be performed with respect to a housing surrounding a point of ingress formed by
a pipe joint, e.g., as shown in Fig. 10. Likewise, these processes can be applied
to a housing surrounding any other point of ingress into a water-based fire
sprinkler system. Alternately, or in addition, the processes can be applied
simultaneously or successively to one or more housings that surround separate
portions of a water-based fire sprinkler system. As a further alternative, it is not
necessary for the process to include the operation of a water pump within a water
pump assembly in steps 1208, 1210 of Fig. 12 and steps 1314, 1316 of Fig. 13.
For example, the process may be modified to be performed with respect to the
operation of a component of a water supply system, the operation of a
component of a water-based fire sprinkler system, the performance of a
maintenance task, the performance of an operational task on such systems, etc.
       [0079]      As yet another alternative, it is not necessary that each step
shown in Fig. 12 be performed each time that process 1200 is performed. For
instance, connection and disconnection of the inert gas source may not always
be performed if the inert gas source is permanently installed. Likewise, the
application and removal of positive inert gas pressure may not be performed
each time the water pump is activated if the housing is substantially sealed after
being filled with inert gas.
       [0080]       Further, it is not necessary that each step shown in Fig. 13 be
performed each time process 1300 is performed or the water pump is operated.
                                           25

For example, once the space within a substantially gas-tight housing has been
filled with inert gas at a desired concentration, the water pump may be operated
or other system components may be used without connecting and disconnecting
the source of inert gas again. Alternately, the process may be performed without
operating or shutting-off a water pump at all. These modifications described
above and others are each intended to be within the scope of this disclosure.
         [0081]    The housings disclosed herein may be formed of any suitable
material(s). For example, the housings may comprise a polymer, etc. and may
be rigid or flexible. The housings may be connected to the water-based fire
sprinkler system permanently or temporarily using any suitable mechanism,
including adhesive, one or more fasteners, tension, etc.           Additionally, the
housings may not form a gas tight seal. In such cases, the inert gas supplied to
the housings is preferably greater than atmospheric pressure to inhibit ambient
air, including oxygen it may contain, from entering the housings.
         [0082]    Alternately, the housings may form a seal that is substantially
gas tight. In such cases, the inert gas supplied to and/or within the housings may
be mixed with any ambient air in a manner suitable to reduce the concentration
of ambient air, and thereby the concentration of oxygen, to approximately the
same concentration as is present in the source of inert gas. For instance, the
repeated pressurization and depressurization of the housings with an inert gas,
whereby each depressurization discharges ambient air mixed with inert gas out
of the housing, is suitable for this purpose.     An example of such a breathing
                                         26

         process is described in WO 2011/056580, the entire disclosure of which
is incorporated herein by reference.
        [0083]      Although the water pumps illustrated in the figures are
centrifugal pumps, it should be understood that the teachings herein are not
limited to centrifugal pumps and can be used with virtually any type of water
pump including, for example, axial-flow pumps, mixed-flow pumps, etc.
        [0084]      The foregoing description of the embodiments has been
provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be
exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a
particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment,
but, where applicable, are interchangeable and can be used in a selected
embodiment, even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be
varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from
the disclosure, and all such modifications are intended to be included within the
scope of the disclosure.
        [0085]     While various embodiments of the present invention have been
described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way
of example only, and not by way of limitation. It will be apparent to a person
skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made
therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, the
present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary
embodiments.
        [0086]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow,
unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such
as "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any
other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                         27

                                      CLAIMS
        1. A method of inhibiting oxygen in ambient air from entering a water
supply system having at least one ingress point at which a fluid can enter the
water supply system, the method comprising supplying an inert gas to the at
least one ingress point of the water supply system, the inert gas entering the
water supply system at the at least one ingress point and substantially inhibiting
ambient air including oxygen from entering the water supply system at the at
least one ingress point to substantially inhibit oxygen corrosion in the water
supply system.
        2. The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein supplying includes
supplying the inert gas to an area adjacent the at least one ingress point of the
water supply system.
        3. The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein the inert gas includes
purified nitrogen.
        4. The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein the water supply system
includes a gas release valve, the gas release valve defining the at least one
ingress point, and wherein supplying includes supplying the inert gas to the gas
release valve
        5. The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein the water supply system
includes a water pump having a seal, the seal defining the at least one ingress
point, and wherein supplying includes supplying the inert gas to the seal.
        6. The method of claim 5 wherein supplying includes supplying the inert
gas to the at least one ingress point when the water pump is activated.
                                        28

       7. The method of claim 5 or 6 wherein supplying includes supplying the
inert gas to the at least one ingress point before the water pump is activated.
       8.   The method of any one of claims 5-7 wherein supplying includes
supplying the inert gas to the at least one ingress point after the water pump is
deactivated.
       9. The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein the water supply system
includes a piping network having at least a first pipe and a second pipe coupled
to the first pipe via a pipe joint, the pipe joint defining the at least one ingress
point, and wherein supplying includes supplying the inert gas to the pipe joint.
        10.  The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein supplying includes
continuously supplying the inert gas to the at least one ingress point.
        11.  A pump assembly for a water supply system, the pump assembly
comprising:
       a water pump having at least one ingress point at which a fluid can enter
the water pump; and
       a housing surrounding the at least one ingress point and defining a space
between the housing and the at least one ingress point, the housing adapted for
coupling to an inert gas source for supplying an inert gas from the inert gas
source to the space between the housing and the at least one ingress point to
thereby allow the inert gas to enter the water pump at the at least one ingress
point and substantially inhibit ambient air including oxygen from entering the
water pump at the at least one ingress point to substantially inhibit oxygen
                                          29

corrosion in the water supply system when the water pump is coupled to the
water supply system.
       12. The pump assembly of any one of claims 11-21 wherein the water
pump includes a seal defining the at least one ingress point.
       13. The pump assembly of any one of claims 11-21 wherein the water
pump includes a gas release valve, the gas release valve defining the at least
one ingress point.
       14.   The pump assembly of claim 13 further comprising a check valve
coupled to the gas release valve, the check valve inhibiting gas from entering the
water pump via the gas release valve when the water pump is coupled to the
water supply system.
       15.   The pump assembly of claim 14 wherein the gas release valve
includes an outlet and wherein the check valve is coupled to the outlet of the gas
release valve.
       16.   The pump assembly of claim 14 or 15 wherein the check valve
comprises a pressure relief valve.
       17. The pump assembly of any one of claims 11-21 further comprising a
drain positioned adjacent the water pump and a check valve or a water trap
coupled to the drain, the check valve or the water trap inhibiting ambient air
including oxygen from entering the water pump via the drain.
       18. The pump assembly of any one of claims 11-21 further comprising a
gas supply line coupled to the housing and an electromechanically operated
valve for controlling a flow of inert gas through the gas supply line.
                                           30

       19.   The pump assembly of claim 18 wherein the electromechanically
operated valve is electrically coupled to the water pump to automatically open the
electromechanically operated valve when the water pump is activated and
automatically close the electromechanically operated valve when the water pump
is deactivated.
       20. The pump assembly of claim 18 of 19 further comprising a controller
for opening and closing the electromechanically operated valve.
       21. The pump assembly of claim 20 wherein the controller is configured to
close the    electromechanically operated      valve after the   water   pump    is
deactivated.
       22.   The pump assembly of claim 20 or 21 wherein the controller is
configured to open the electromechanically operated valve before the water
pump is activated.
       23. A water-based fire sprinkler system comprising a piping network, one
or more sprinklers, an inert gas source, and the pump assembly of any one of the
pump assembly claims coupled to the piping network and the inert gas source.
       24.   A pump assembly for a water supply system, the pump assembly
comprising:
       a water pump;
       a gas release valve coupled to the water pump, the gas release valve
adapted to vent gas but not water from the water pump;
       a check valve coupled to the gas release valve, the check valve inhibiting
ambient air including oxygen from entering the water pump via the gas release
                                         31

valve to substantially inhibit oxygen corrosion in the water supply system when
the water pump is coupled to the water supply system.
        25.    The pump assembly of any one of claims 24-27 wherein the gas
release valve includes an outlet and wherein the check valve is coupled to the
outlet of the gas release valve.
        26. The pump assembly of any one of claims 24-27 wherein the check
valve comprises a pressure relief valve.
        27. The pump assembly of any one of claims 24-27 wherein the check
valve is a first check valve, the pump assembly further comprising a drain
positioned adjacent the water pump and a second check valve or a water trap
coupled to the drain, the second check valve or the water trap inhibiting ambient
air including oxygen from entering the water pump via the drain.
        28. A piping network comprising:
        a first pipe;
        a second pipe coupled to the first pipe via a pipe joint, the pipe joint
defining an ingress point at which a fluid can enter the piping network; and
        a housing surrounding the at least one ingress point and defining a space
between the housing and the at least one ingress point, the housing adapted for
coupling to an inert gas source for supplying an inert gas from the inert gas
source to the space between the housing and the at least one ingress point to
thereby allow the inert gas to enter the piping network at the at least one ingress
point and substantially inhibit ambient air including oxygen from entering the
                                          32

piping network at the at least one ingress point to substantially inhibit oxygen
corrosion in the piping network.
                                      33

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
