I: \TRN\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TRN\10028661- .docx-21 042016
ABSTRACT
                 This invention provides methods of using phagocytic cells alone or in combination
with non-phagocytic cells in the diagnosis, prognosis, or monitoring of autoimmune or
 immune-related diseases or conditions. The invention also provides methods of using
phagocytic cells alone or in combination with non-phagocytic cells to identify markers of
 autoimmune or immune-related diseases or conditions.

     METHODS OF DETECTING AUTOIMMUNE OR IMMUNE-RELATED
                                DISEASES OR CONDITIONS
   This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
    Related Application Data
    [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
 5  61/367,018, filed on July 23, 2010 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference
    in its entirety for all purposes.
    Field of the Invention
    [0002]     This invention relates generally to methods of using phagocytic cells
    alone or in combination with non-phagocytic cells in the diagnosis, prognosis, or
10  monitoring of autoimmune or immune-related diseases or conditions. The
    invention also relates to methods of using phagocytic cells alone or in combination
    with non-phagocytic cells to identify markers of autoimmune or immune-related
    diseases or conditions.
    Background of the Invention
15  [0003]     Early diagnosis of a disease often increases the likelihood of successful
    treatment or cure of such disease. Current diagnostic methods, however, depend
    largely on population-derived average values obtained from healthy individuals.
    Personalized diagnostic methods are needed that enable the diagnosis, especially
    the early diagnosis, of the presence of a disease or a condition in individuals who
20  are not known to have the disease or who have recurrent disease. This is of
    particular importance in autoimmune or immune-related diseases or conditions,
    which affect over 23.5 million Americans.
     [0004]     Leukocytes begin as pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells in the bone
    marrow and develop along either the myeloid lineage (monocytes, macrophages,
25  neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils) or the lymphoid lineage (T and B
    lymphocytes and natural killer cells). The major function of the myeloid lineage
    cells (e.g., neutrophils and macrophages) is the phagocytosis of infectious
    organisms, live unwanted damaged cells, senescent and dead cells (apoptotic and
    necrotic), as well as the clearing of cellular debris. Phagocytes from healthy
                                          1

   animals do not replicate and are diploid, i.e., have a DNA index of one. On
   average, each cell contains <10 ng DNA, <20 ng RNA, and <300 ng of protein.
   [0005]    One object of the present invention is to provide diagnostic methods that
   can facilitate the detection of autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
 5 specific markers, e.g., nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and/or lipids and the
   like by using phagocytic cells alone, or in combination with non-phagocytic cells.
   Another object of this invention is to provide methods of identifying autoimmune
   or immune-related disease or condition-specific markers and further use such
   markers alone or together with any known markers to diagnose diseases or
10 conditions.
   Summary of the Invention
   [0006]    We have invented new and useful methods for detecting/diagnosing
   autoimmune or immune-related diseases or conditions by using phagocytic cells
   alone or in combination with non-phagocytic cells. In some embodiments,
15 phagocytic cells serve as surrogates for diseased cells and non-phagocytic cells
   serve as control cells. In other embodiments, two sub-populations of phagocytic
   cells are used, wherein the phagocytic cells that have a DNA content greater than
   2n ( the >2n phagocytic cells) serve as surrogates for diseased cells, while the
   phagocytic cells that have a DNA content of 2n ( the =2n phagocytic cells) serve as
20 control cells.
   [0007]    In one aspect, this invention provides a method for diagnosing or aiding
   in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition in a
   subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
   disease or condition from a population of phagocytic cells; b) determining a second
25 profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a population of non
   phagocytic cells; and c) identifying a difference between the first and second
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative
   of the presence of said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0008]    In another aspect, this invention provides a method for assessing the risk
30 of developing an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition in a subject
                                               2

   comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
   condition from a population of phagocytic cells; b) determining a second profile of
   at least one of the one or more markers from a population of non-phagocytic cells;
   and c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least one
 5 or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the risk of
   developing said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0009]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for prognosing or
   aiding in the prognosis of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
10 disease or condition from a population of phagocytic cells; b) determining a second
   profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a population of non
   phagocytic cells; and c) identifying a difference between the first and second
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers, wherein the identified difference is
   indicative of the prognosis of said disease or condition in the subject.
15 [0010]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for assessing the
   efficacy of a treatment for an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
   disease or condition from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject before
   the treatment; determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more
20 markers from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject before the
   treatment; identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at
   least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of the one or more
   markers from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment;
   determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a
25 population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment; identifying
   a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at least one or more of
   said markers; and c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the
   second difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the efficacy of
   the treatment for said disease or condition in the subject.
30 [0011]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for monitoring the
   progression or regression of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or
                                               3

   condition in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more
   markers of the disease or condition from a population of phagocytic cells from the
   subject at a first time point; determining a second profile of at least one of the one
   or more markers from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject at the
 5 first time point; identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles
   of at least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of the one or
   more markers from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject at a second
   time point; determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers
   from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject at the second time
10 point; identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
   least one or more of said markers; and c) identifying a difference between the first
   difference and the second difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative
   of the progression or regression of said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0012]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying a
15 compound capable of ameliorating or treating an autoimmune or immune-related
   disease or condition in a subject comprising:           a) determining a first profile of
   one or more markers of the disease or condition from a population of phagocytic
   cells from the subject before administering the compound to the subject;
   determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a
20 population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject before administering the
   compound to the subject; identifying a first difference between the first and second
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of
   the one or more markers from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject
   after the administration of the compound; determining a fourth profile of at least
25 one of the one or more markers from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the
   subject after the administration of the compound; identifying a second difference
   between the third and fourth profiles of at least one or more of said markers; and
   c)identifying a difference between the first difference and the second difference,
   wherein the identified difference indicates that the compound is capable of
30 ameliorating or treating said disease or condition in the subject.
                                                4

   [0013]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for diagnosing or
   aiding in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
   disease or condition from a population of phagocytic cells having a DNA content
 5 more than 2n (>2n phagocytic cells); b) determining a second profile of at least one
   of the one or more markers from a population of phagocytic cells having a DNA
   content of 2n (=2n phagocytic cells); and       c) identifying a difference between
   the first and second profiles of at least one or more of said markers, wherein the
   difference is indicative of the presence of said disease or condition in the subject.
10 [0014]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for assessing the
   risk of developing an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition in a
   subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
   disease or condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells; b) determining a
   second profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a population of =2n
15 phagocytic cells; and c) identifying a difference between the first and second
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative
   of the risk of developing said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0015]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for prognosing or
   aiding in the prognosis of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
20 in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
   disease or condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells; b) determining a
   second profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a population of =2n
   phagocytic cells; and c) identifying a difference between the first and second
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative
25 of the prognosis of said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0016]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for assessing the
   efficacy of a treatment for an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the
   disease or condition from a population of>2n phagocytic cells from the subject
30 before the treatment; determining a second profile of at least one of the one or
   more markers from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject before
                                                5

   the treatment; identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of
   at least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of the one or
   more markers from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the
   treatment; determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers
 5 from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment;
   identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at least one
   or more of said markers; and c) identifying a difference between the first difference
   and the second difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the
   efficacy of the treatment for said disease or condition in the subject.
10 [0017]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for monitoring the
   progression or regression of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or
   condition in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or more
   markers of the disease or condition from a population of>2n phagocytic cells from
   the subject at a first time point; determining a second profile of at least one of the
15 one or more markers from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject at
   the first time point; identifying a first difference between the first and second
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of
   the one or more markers from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the
   subject at a second time point; determining a fourth profile of at least one of the
20 one or more markers from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject at
   the second time point; identifying a second difference between the third and fourth
   profiles of at least one or more of said markers; and c) identifying a difference
   between the first difference and the second difference, wherein the identified
   difference is indicative of the progression or regression of said disease or condition
25 in the subject.
   [0018]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying a
   compound capable of ameliorating or treating an autoimmune or immune-related
   disease or condition in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or
   more markers of the disease or condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells
30 from the subject before administering the compound to the subject; determining a
   second profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a population of =2n
                                                 6

   phagocytic cells from the subject before administering the compound to the
   subject; identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at
   least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of the one or more
   markers from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the
 5 administration of the compound; determining a fourth profile of at least one of the
   one or more markers from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject
   after the administration of the compound; identifying a second difference between
   the third and fourth profiles of at least one or more of said markers; c) identifying a
   difference between the first difference and the second difference, wherein the
10 identified difference indicates that the compound is capable of ameliorating or
   treating said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0019]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers for an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
15 subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of analytes
   from non-phagocytic cells from the subject having said disease or condition;
   identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles, wherein
   the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the second
   profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
20 control subject not having said disease or condition; determining a fourth profile of
   analytes from non-phagocytic cells from the control subject not having said disease
   or condition; identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth
   profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile
   relative to the fourth profile; c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first
25 set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes
   being markers of said disease or condition. Optionally, this method further
   comprises d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
   said disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition; obtaining
   a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said disease or
30 condition in the subject having said disease or condition; identifying a third set of
   differences between the fifth and sixth profiles, wherein the third set of differences
                                                 7

   is specific to the fifth profile relative to the sixth profile; and e) identifying at least
   one of the one or more markers of c) present in the third set of differences.
   [0020]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
 5 comprision: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of analytes
   from phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said disease or condition;
             identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
   wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
10 second profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells
   from the subject having said disease or condition; determining a fourth profile of
   analytes from non-phagocytic cells from the control subject not having said disease
   or condition; identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth
   profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile
15 relative to the fourth profile; c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first
   set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes
   being markers of said disease or condition. And optionally, the method further
   comprises d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
   said disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition; obtaining
20 a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said disease or
   condition in the subject having said disease or condition; identifying a third set of
   differences between the fifth and sixth profiles, wherein the third set of differences
   is specific to the fifth profile relative to the sixth profile; and e) identifying at least
   one of the one or more markers of c) present in the third set of differences.
25 [0021]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; obtaining a second profile of analytes
   from phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said disease or condition
30 by data mining; identifying a first set of differences between the first and second
   profiles, wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to
                                                  8

   the second profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from non-phagocytic
   cells from the subject having said disease or condition; obtaining a fourth profile of
   analytes from non-phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said disease
   or condition by data mining; identifying a second set of differences between the
 5 third and fourth profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the
   third profile relative to the fourth profile; and c) identifying one or more analytes
   specific to the first set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the
   identified analytes being markers of said disease or condition. And optionally, the
   method further comprises d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or
10 tissues affected by said disease or condition by data mining; obtaining a sixth
   profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said disease or condition by
   data mining; identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth
   profiles, wherein the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative
   to the sixth profile; and e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c)
15 present in the third set of differences.
   [0022]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of analytes
20 from non-phagocytic cells from the subject having said disease or condition;
   identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles, wherein
   the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the second
   profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
   said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
25 determining a fourth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said
   disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition; identifying
   a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles, wherein the
   second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the fourth profile;
   c) identifying one or more analytes present in both the first set of differences and
30 the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers of said disease
   or condition. And optionally, the method further comprises d) determining a fifth
   profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said
                                                 9

   disease or condition; identifying a third set of differences between the first and
   fifth profiles, wherein the third set of differences is specific to the first profile
   relative to the fifth profile; e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of
   c) present in the third set of differences.
 5 [0023]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from >2n phagocytic cells
   from a subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of
   analytes from =2n phagocytic cells from the subject having said disease or
10 condition;       identifying a first set of differences between the first and second
   profiles, wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to
   the second profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from >2n phagocytic
   cells from a control subject not having said disease or condition; determining a
   fourth profile of analytes from =2n phagocytic cells from the control subject not
15 having said disease or condition; identifying a second set of differences between
   the third and fourth profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the
   third profile relative to the fourth profile; and c) identifying one or more analytes
   specific to the first set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the
   identified analytes being markers of said disease or condition. And optionally, the
20 method further comprises: d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or
   tissues affected by said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or
   condition; obtaining a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
   said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
   identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth profiles, wherein
25 the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative to the sixth profile;
   and e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the third
   set of differences.
   [0024]     In some embodiments, the markers or the analytes are nucleic acids (e.g.,
   nucleotides, oligonucleotides, DNAs, RNAs, or DNA-RNA hybrids), proteins
30 (e.g., , amino acids, peptides, enzymes, antigens, antibodies, cytokines,
   lipoproteins, glycoproteins, or hormones), lipids (e.g., fatty acids, phosphatides,
                                                 10

   cholesterol), carbohydrates (e.g., monosaccharides, disaccharides,
   polysaccharides), metabolites (e.g., vitamins, primary metabolites, secondary
   metabolites), or combinations thereof.
   [0025]     In some embodiments, the profile is a nucleic acid profile (e.g., genotypic
 5 profile, a single nucleotide polymorphism profile, a gene mutation profile, a gene
   copy number profile, a DNA methylation profile, a DNA acetylation profile, a
   chromosome dosage profile, a gene expression profile), a protein profile (e.g.,
   protein expression, protein activation), a lipid profile, a carbohydrate profile, a
   metabolite profile, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the profile is
10 determined by a qualitative assay, a quantitative assay, or a combination thereof.
   [0026]     In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more markers is up
   regulated or activated in the phagocytic cells compared to the non-phagocytic cells.
   In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more markers is down-regulated
   or inhibited in the phagocytic cells compared to the non-phagocytic cells. In some
15 embodiments, at least one of the one or more markers is up-regulated or activated
   in the >2n phagocytic cells compared to the =2n phagocytic cells. In some
   embodiments, at least one of the one or more markers is down-regulated or
   inhibited in the >2n phagocytic cells compared to the =2n phagocytic cells.
   [0027]     In some embodiments, the first profile, the second profile, the third
20 profile, the fourth profile, the fifth profile, or the sixth profile comprises the
   absence of at least one of the one or more markers.
   [0028]     In some embodiments, the difference is at least 1.05-fold, 1.1-fold, 1.2
   fold, 1.3-fold, 1.4-fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 2.5-fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, 5-fold, 6-fold, 7
   fold, 8-fold, 9-fold, or 10-fold difference.
25 [0029]     In some embodiments, the methods of this invention also comprise lysing
   the phagocytic cells (e.g., >2n phagocytic cells, or =2n phagocytic cells), and the
   non-phagocytic cells; and also extracting the cellular contents from those cells. In
   some embodiments, the cellular contents of the phagocytic cells comprise viable
   diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells, circulating tumor cells,
30 infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or fragments thereof. In some
                                                 11

   embodiments, the cellular contents of the >2n phagocytic cells comprise viable
   diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells, circulating tumor cells,
   infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or fragments thereof.
   [0030]     In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more markers of the
 5 disease or condition is present in the cellular contents of the phagocytic cells. In
   some embodiments, the one or more markers of said disease or condition are not
   present in the cellular contents of the non phagocytic cells. In some embodiments,
   the phagocytic cells express at least one of the one or more markers of said disease
   or condition.
10 [0031]     In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more markers of the
   disease or condition is present in the cellular contents of the >2n phagocytic cells.
   In some embodiments, the one or more markers of said disease or condition are not
   present in the cellular contents of the =2n phagocytic cells. In some embodiments,
   the phagocytic cells express at least one of the one or more markers of said disease
15 or condition. In some embodiments, the >2n phagocytic cells express at least one
   of the one or more markers of said disease or condition.
   [0032]     In some embodiments, the methods of this invention also comprise
   comparing the identified difference of c) to a repository of one or more known
   markers of said disease or condition (e.g., data obtained by data mining).
20 [0033]     In some embodiments, the phagocytic cells are professional phagocytic
   cells (e.g., neutrophils, macrophages, monocytes, dendritic cells, foam cells, mast
   cells, eosinophils), non-professional phagocytic cells (e.g., epithelial cells,
   endothelial cells, fibroblasts, mesenchymal cells), or mixtures thereof. In some
   embodiments, the non-phagocytic cells are T cells, B cells, null cells, basophils, or
25 mixtures thereof.
   [0034]     In some embodiments, the phagocytic cells (e.g., >2n phagocytic cells,
   =2n phagocytic cells) and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated from a bodily fluid
   sample (e.g., blood, urine), tissues, or cells (e.g., white blood cells, fetal cells) of
   the subject.
                                               12

   [0035]     In some embodiments, a standard/know cell
   separation/isolation/purification technique, such as antibody, flow cytometry,
   fluorescence activated cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based centrifugation, elution,
   microfluidics, magnetic separation technique, fluorescent-magnetic separation
 5 technique, nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput microscope-based
   platforms, or a combination thereof, is used to isolate phagocytic cells (e.g., >2n
   phagocytic cells and =2n phagocytic cells) and non-phagocytic cells from bodily
   fluids, tissues or cells, or to separate phagocytic cells from non-phagocytic cells, or
   to separate >2n phagocytic cells from =2n phagocytic cells. In some embodiments,
10 the phagocytic cells (e.g., >2n phagocytic cells) can also be isolated by using a
   product secreted by the phagocytic cells, or by using a cell surface target (e.g., a
   receptor protein, a marker of said disease or condition) on the surface of the
   phagocytic cells. In some embodiments, the target is expressed by the phagocytic
   cells. In other embodiments, the target is not expressed by the phagocytic cells. In
15 some embodiments, the phagocytic cells (e.g., >2n phagocytic cells and =2n
   phagocytic cells) and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated using a ligand that binds
   to a molecular receptor expressed on the plasma membranes of white blood cells.
   [0036]     Also provided by this invention are markers that can be used in the
   methods of this invention and that can be identified by the methods of this
20 invention.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   [0037]     FIG. 1A schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of the
   invention for diagnosing or aiding in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition. In this embodiment, phagocytic cells and non
25 phagocytic cells are separated from white blood cells of a subject. The phagocytic
   cells serve as surrogates for diseased cells, while the non-phagocytic cells serve as
   control cells.
   [0038]     FIG. 1B schematically depicts one proposed pathway leading to
   acquisition of an autoimmune or immune-related disease-specific DNA, RNA,
30 protein and/or lipid markers by phagocytic cells. Blood phagocytes engulf viable
                                               13

   circulating diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells, and/or fragmented diseased
   cells. Accordingly, the disease-specific markers (e.g., DNAs, RNAs, proteins, or
   lipids) that are contained within these diseased cells/fragments are also internalized
   by phagocytic cells. By contrast, non-phagocytic cells do not internalize these
 5 diseased cells/fragments, and, therefore, do not contain and/or express the disease
   specific markers.
   [0039]    FIG. IC schematically depicts a general flowchart of one embodiment of
   a method of the invention.
   [0040]    FIG. ID schematically depicts a general flowchart of one embodiment of
10 a method of the invention.
   [0041]    FIG. 2A schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition. D represents diseased cells/tissues from a patient
   having an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition; and ND represents
15 not-diseased cells/tissues from the patient; MD represents macrophages taken from
   the patient; TCD represents T cells taken from the patient(s); Mc represents
   macrophages taken from a control subject not having the disease or condition; TCc
   represents T cells taken from the control subject.
   [0042]    FIG. 2B schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
20 invention for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition. D represents diseased cells/tissues from a patient
   having an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition; and ND represents
   not-diseased cells/tissues from the patient; MD represents macrophages taken from
   the patient; TCD represents T cells taken from the patient; Mc represents
25 macrophages taken from a control subject not having the disease or condition; TCc
   represents T cells taken from the control subject.
   [0043]    FIG. 2C schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition. D represents information obtained by data mining
30 about diseased cells/tissues from patients having an autoimmune or immune
                                              14

   related disease or condition; and ND represents information obtained by data
   mining about not-diseased cells/tissues from patients having the same disease or
   condition; MD represents macrophages taken from a patient having the disease or
   condition; TCD represents T cells taken from the patient; Mc represents
 5 information obtained by data mining about macrophages from control subjects not
   having the disease or condition; TCc represents information obtained by data
   mining about T cells obtained from control subjects not having the disease or
   condition.
   [0044]    FIG. 3 depicts a schematic of gene expression profile data that could be
10 compared to identify autoimmune or immune-related disease-specific genes
   selectively acquired/expressed by macrophages.
   [0045]    FIG. 4A schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for diagnosing or aiding in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition. In this embodiment, a blood sample is withdrawn
15 from an individual to be diagnosed. After a centrifugation step, white blood cells
   are isolated from the blood sample and further separated into two populations of
   phagocytic cells: phagocytic cells (e.g., macrophages or neutrophils) having a
   DNA content more than 2n (>2n phagocytic cells) and phagocytic cells (e.g.,
   macrophages or neutrophils) having a DNA content of 2n (=2n phagocytic cells).
20 The >2n phagocytic cells serve as surrogates for diseased cells and the 2n
   phagocytic cells serve as control cells.
   [0046]    FIG. 4B schematically depicts one proposed pathway leading to
   acquisition of autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition-specific
   markers (e.g., DNA, RNA, protein and lipid markers) by phagocytic cells. Blood
25 phagocytes engulf viable circulating diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells, and/or
   fragmented diseased cells. Accordingly, the autoimmune or immune-related
   disease or condition-specific markers (e.g., DNAs, RNAs, proteins, or lipids) that
   are contained within these diseased cells/fragments are also internalized by
   phagocytic cells, which then become >2n phagocytic cells containing and/or
30 expressing these specific markers. By contrast, phagocytic cells that do not
                                             15

   internalize these diseased cells/fragments, and thus, do not contain or express these
   markers, and remain DNA content of 2n.
   [0047]    FIG. 5 schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or immune
 5 related disease or condition. D represents diseased tissues/cells from a patient
   having an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition; and ND represents
   not-diseased tissues/cells from the patient; MD(N>2) represents macrophages having
   a DNA content of >2n taken from a patient with the disease or condition; MD(N=2)
   represents macrophages having a DNA content of =2n taken from the patient;
10 MC(N>2)  represents macrophages having a DNA content of >2n taken from a control
   subject not having the disease or condition; MC(N=2) represents macrophages having
   a DNA content of >2n taken from the control subject.
   [0048]    FIG. 6 schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for identifying autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
15 specific markers selectively acquired/expressed by >2n phagocytic cells of a
   patient.
   [0049]    FIG. 7 schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for diagnosing/detecting an autoimmune or immune-related disease or
   condition by comparing expression profiles obtained from arrays.
20 [0050]    FIG. 8 schematically depicts one embodiment of a method of this
   invention for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition. D represents diseased cells/tissues from a patient
   having an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition; and ND represents
   not-diseased cells/tissues from the patient; ND represents neutrophils taken from
25 the patient; TCD represents T cells taken from the patient; Nc represents
   neutrophils obtained from a control subject not having the disease or condition.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
   [0051]    Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms used in
   this application shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of
                                             16

   ordinary skill in the art. Generally, nomenclature used in connection with, and
   techniques of, cell and tissue culture, molecular biology, cell and cancer biology,
   neurobiology, neurochemistry, virology, immunology, microbiology,
   pharmacology, genetics and protein and nucleic acid chemistry, described herein,
 5 are those well known and commonly used in the art.
   [0052]    All of the above, and any other publications, patents and published patent
   applications referred to in this application are specifically incorporated by
   reference herein. In case of conflict, the present specification, including its
   specific definitions, will control.
10 [0053]    Throughout this specification, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   integer (or components) or group of integers (or components), but not the
   exclusion of any other integer (or components) or group of integers (or
   components).
15 [0054]    The singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include the plurals unless the
   context clearly dictates otherwise.
   [0055]    The term "including" is used to mean "including but not limited to".
   "Including" and "including but not limited to" are used interchangeably.
   [0056]    A "patient", "subject", or "individual" are used interchangeably and refer
20 to either a human or a non-human animal. These terms include mammals, such as
   humans, primates, livestock animals (e.g., bovines, porcines), companion animals
   (e.g., canines, felines) and rodents (e.g., mice and rats).
   [0057]    As used herein, a control subject refers to any individual that has not been
   diagnosed as having the disease or condition being assayed. The terms "normal
25 control", "healthy control", and "not-diseased cells" likewise mean a sample (e.g.,
   cells, serum, tissue) taken from a source (e.g., subject, control subject, cell line)
   that does not have the condition or disease being assayed and therefore may be
   used to determine the baseline for the condition or disorder being measured. It is
   also understood that the control subject, normal control, and healthy control,
                                               17

   include data obtained and used as a standard, i.e. it can be used over and over again
   for multiple different subjects. In other words, for example, when comparing a
   subject sample to a control sample, the data from the control sample could have
   been obtained in a different set of experiments, for example, it could be an average
 5 obtained from a number of healthy subjects and not actually obtained at the time
   the data for the subject was obtained.
   [0058]    The term "diagnosis" as used herein refers to methods by which the
   skilled artisan can estimate and/or determine whether or not a patient is suffering
   from a given disease or condition. The skilled artisan often makes a diagnosis on
10 the basis of one or more diagnostic indicators, e.g., a marker, the presence,
   absence, amount, or change in amount of which is indicative of the presence,
   severity, or absence of the condition.
   [0059]    The term "prognosis" as used herein refers to is used herein to refer to the
   likelihood of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition progression,
15 including recurrence of a disease or condition.
   [0060]    The disclosure of the International Application PCT/US2009/031395 is
   incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
   Description of Methods of the Invention
   [0061]    The present invention provides methods for diagnosing or aiding in the
20 diagnosis of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition by comparing
   profiles (e.g., gene/protein/lipid/carbohydrate expression profiles, genotypes, gene
   copy number, gene dosage, DNA methylation, etc.) of disease or condition
   associated markers (e.g., nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, metabolites)
   between phagocytic cells having different DNA contents (>2n vs. =2n) taken from
25 the same individual, or between phagocytic cells and non-phagocytic cells taken
   from the same individual.
   [0062]    This invention also provides methods for assessing the risk of developing
   an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition, prognosing said disease,
   monitoring said disease progression or regression, assessing the efficacy of a
                                              18

   treatment, or identifying a compound capable of ameliorating or treating said
   disease or condition.
   [0063]     Such a subject-specific profile comparison eliminates the dependence on
   a population-derived average profile for a particular disease or condition, which
 5 may introduce error into the detection or diagnosis of a particular disease or
   condition in the subject. The methods of this invention allow detection, diagnosis,
   and treatment to be personalized to the individual.
   [0064]    The methods of this invention (i) have high specificity, sensitivity, and
   accuracy and are capable of detecting disease or condition-specific markers present
10 within a bodily fluid sample, cells or tissues; and (ii) eliminate the "inequality of
   baseline" that is known to occur among individuals due to intrinsic (e.g., age,
   gender, ethnic background, health status and the like) and temporal variations in
   marker expression. Accordingly, in certain aspects, the invention provides non
   invasive assays for the early detection of a disease or condition, i.e., before the
15 disease can be diagnosed by conventional diagnostic techniques, e.g., imaging
   techniques, and, therefore, provide a foundation for improved decision-making
   relative to the needs and strategies for intervention, prevention, and treatment of
   individuals with such disease or condition.
   [0065]    The methods of this invention can be used together with any known
20 diagnostic methods, such as physical inspection, visual inspection, biopsy,
   scanning, histology, radiology, imaging, ultrasound, use of a commercial kit,
   genetic testing, immunological testing, analysis of bodily fluids, or monitoring
   neural activity.
   [0066]    Phagocytic cells that can be used in the methods of this invention include
25 all types of cells that are capable of ingesting various types of substances (e.g.,
   apoptotic cells, infectious agents, dead cells, viable cells, cell-free DNAs, cell-free
   RNAs, cell-free proteins). In some embodiments, the phagocytic cells are
   professional phagocytic cells, such as neutrophils, macrophages, monocytes,
   dendritic cells, foam cells, mast cells, or eosinophils. In some embodiments, the
30 phagocytic cells are non-professional phagocytic cells, such as epithelial cells,
                                               19

   endothelial cells, fibroblasts, or mesenchymal cells. In other embodiments, the
   phagocytic cells can be a mixture of different types of phagocytic cells. Non
   phagocytic cells that can be used in this invention include, but are not limited to, T
   cells, B cells, null cells, basophils, or mixtures thereof.
 5 [0067]    As used herein, "the >2n phagocytic cells" refer to phagocytic cells that
   have a DNA content of greater than 2n, while "the =2n phagocytic cells" refer to
   phagocytic cells that have a DNA content of 2n. According to the present
   invention, some phagocytic cells engulf live/dying/dead diseased cells (and sub
   cellular fragments thereof) and/or cell-free disease-specific nucleic acids, proteins,
10 carbohydrates and/or lipids present in bodily fluids. Such phagocytosis leads to the
   internalization of these disease markers into the phagocytic cell and, therefore, the
   DNA content of these phagocytic cells will become greater than 2n. By contrast,
   some phagocytic cells have not engulfed living/dying/dead diseased cells or
   fragments and/or cell-free disease-specific nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, and/or
15 carbohydrates present in bodily fluids. The DNA contents of this group of
   phagocytic cells remain 2n. In some embodiments, the disease-specific markers
   (e.g., DNA with disease-specific mutations) can be expressed by the >2n
   phagocytic cells. For example, the mutated DNA of diseased cells is integrated
   into the normal DNA of the >2n phagocytic cells. The subsequent transcription of
20 the "integrated" DNA of the >2n phagocytic cells into RNA and the translation of
   the latter into proteins produces a phenotype different from the phagocytic cells
   that have not phagocytosed the diseased cells (i.e., the =2n phagocytic cells). In
   other embodiments, the internalized disease-specific markers are not expressed by
   the >2n phagocytic cells. The markers may be translocated onto the membranes of
25 the >2n phagocytic cells, or secreted out by the >2n phagocytic cells.
   [0068] As used herein, a "profile" of a marker of a disease or condition can
   broadly refer to any information concerning the marker. This information can be
   either qualitative (e.g., presence or absence) or quantitative (e.g., levels, copy
   numbers, or dosages). In some embodiments, a profile of a marker can indicate the
30 absence of this marker. The profile can be a nucleic acid (e.g., DNA or RNA)
   profile, a protein profile, a lipid profile, a carbohydrate profile, a metabolite
                                                20

   profile, or a combination thereof. A "marker" as used herein generally refers to an
   analyte which is differentially detectable in phagocytes and is indicative of the
   presence of a disease or condition. An analyte is differentially detectable if it can
   be distinguished quantitatively or qualitatively in phagocytes.
 5 [0069]     The methods of this invention can be applied to various autoimmune or
   immune-related diseases or conditions. As used herein, "autoimmune or immune
   related disease or condition" can refer to any disease, disorder, or condition
   affecting or associated with the immune system. Examples of autoimmune or
   immune-related diseases or conditions include, but are not limited to,
10 inflammation, antiphospholipid syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus,
   rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune vasculitis, celiac disease, autoimmune
   thyroiditis, post-transfusion immunization, maternal-fetal incompatibility,
   transfusion reactions, immunological deficiency such IgA deficiency, common
   variable immunodeficiency, drug-induced lupus, diabetes mellitus, Type I diabetes,
15 Type II diabetes, juvenile onset diabetes, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic
   arthritis, multiple sclerosis, immunodeficiency, allergies, asthma, psoriasis, atopic
   dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, chronic skin diseases, amyotrophic lateral
   sclerosis, chemotherapy-induced injury, graft-vs-host diseases, bone marrow
   transplant rejection, Ankylosing spondylitis, atopic eczema, Pemphigus, Behcet's
20 disease, chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia, chemotherapy-induced injury,
   myasthenia gravis, glomerulonephritis, allergic retinitis, systemic sclerosis,
   subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, cutaneous lupus erythematosus including
   chilblain lupus erythematosus, Sjogren's syndrome, autoimmune nephritis,
   autoimmune vasculitis, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune carditis, autoimmune
25 encephalitis, autoimmune mediated hematological diseases, lc-SSc (limited
   cutaneous form of scleroderma), dc-SSc (diffused cutaneous form of scleroderma),
   autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), Grave's disease (GD), myasthenia gravis, multiple
   sclerosis (MS), ankylosing spondylitis. transplant rejection, immune aging,
   rheumatic/autoimmune diseases, mixed connective tissue disease,
30 spondyloarthropathy, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, myositis, scleroderma,
   dermatomyositis, autoimmune vasculitis, mixed connective tissue disease,
   idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, Crohn's disease, human adjuvant disease,
                                              21

   osteoarthritis, juvenile chronic arthritis, a spondyloarthropathy, an idiopathic
   inflammatory myopathy, systemic vasculitis, sarcoidosis, autoimmune hemolytic
   anemia, autoimmune thrombocytopenia, thyroiditis, immune-mediated renal
   disease, a demyelinating disease of the central or peripheral nervous system,
 5 idiopathic demyelinating polyneuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, a chronic
   inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, a hepatobiliary disease, infectious or
   autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, granulomatous
   hepatitis, sclerosing cholangitis, inflammatory bowel disease, gluten-sensitive
   enteropathy, Whipple's disease, an autoimmune or immune-mediated skin disease,
10 a bullous skin disease, erythema multiforme, allergic rhinitis, atopic dermatitis,
   food hypersensitivity, urticaria, an immunologic disease of the lung, eosinophilic
   pneumonias, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, a
   transplantation associated disease, graft rejection or graft-versus-host-disease,
   psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, dermatitis, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, toxic
15 epidermal necrolysis, systemic scleroderma and sclerosis, responses associated
   with inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, respiratory
   distress syndrome, adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), meningitis,
   encephalitis, uveitis, colitis, glomerulonephritis, allergic conditions, eczema,
   asthma, conditions involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory
20 responses, atherosclerosis, autoimmune myocarditis, leukocyte adhesion
   deficiency, allergic encephalomyelitis, immune responses associated with acute
   and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T-lymphocytes,
   tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, granulomatosis including Wegener's granulomatosis,
   agranulocytosis, vasculitis (including ANCA), aplastic anemia, Diamond Blackfan
25 anemia, immune hemolytic anemia including autoimmune hemolytic anemia
   (AIHA), pernicious anemia, pure red cell aplasia (PRCA), Factor VIII deficiency,
   hemophilia A, autoimmune neutropenia, pancytopenia, leukopenia, diseases
   involving leukocyte diapedesis, central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory
   disorders, multiple organ injury syndrome, mysathenia gravis, antigen-antibody
30 complex mediated diseases, anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, anti
   phospholipid antibody syndrome, allergic neuritis, Bechet disease, Castleman's
   syndrome, Goodpasture's syndrome, Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome,
                                                22

   Reynaud's syndrome, Sjorgen's syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, pemphigoid
   bullous, pemphigus, autoimmune polyendocrinopathies, Reiter's disease, stiff-man
   syndrome, giant cell arteritis, immune complex nephritis, IgA nephropathy, IgM
   polyneuropathies or IgM mediated neuropathy, idiopathic thrombocytopenic
 5 purpura (ITP), thrombotic throbocytopenic purpura (TTP), autoimmune
   thrombocytopenia, autoimmune disease of the testis and ovary including
   autoimmune orchitis and oophoritis, primary hypothyroidism, autoimmune
   endocrine diseases including autoimmune thyroiditis, chronic thyroiditis
   (Hashimoto's Thyroiditis), subacute thyroiditis, idiopathic hypothyroidism,
10 Addison's disease, Grave's disease, autoimmune polyglandular syndromes (or
   polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes), Sheehan's syndrome, autoimmune
   hepatitis, lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis (HIV), bronchiolitis obliterans (non
   transplant) vs NSIP, Guillain-Barre' Syndrome, large vessel vasculitis (including
   polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell (Takayasu's) arteritis), medium vessel
15 vasculitis (including Kawasaki's disease and polyarteritis nodosa), ankylosing
   spondylitis, Berger's disease (IgA nephropathy), rapidly progressive
   glomerulonephritis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac sprue (gluten enteropathy),
   cryoglobulinemia, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
   [0070]    The methods of this invention can also be applied to the autoimmune or
20 immune-related diseases or conditions disclosed in, for example, United States
   Patent Application Publications 20070141625, 20090226440, 20090263474,
   20100075891,20100104579,20100105086,20100131286,20100144055,
   20100151471,20090176217,20090202469,20020119118,20080213280,
   20090023166,20080221016,20080194474,20070224638,20070135335,
25 20070128189, 20070122413, 20090130683, 20090110667, and 20090023166, and
   International Patent Application Publications WO/2009/043 848,
   WO/2009/053537, WO/2007/047907, WO/2006/114661, and WO/2003/006058.
   [0071]    As used herein, "treating" a disease or condition refers to taking steps to
   obtain beneficial or desired results, including clinical results. Beneficial or desired
30 clinical results include, but are not limited to, alleviation or amelioration of one or
                                               23

   more symptoms associated with autoimmune or immune-related diseases or
   conditions.
   [0072]    As used herein, "administering" or "administration of' a compound or an
   agent to a subject can be carried out using one of a variety of methods known to
 5 those skilled in the art. For example, a compound or an agent can be administered,
   intravenously, arterially, intradermally, intramuscularly, intraperitonealy,
   intravenously, subcutaneously, ocularly, sublingually, orally (by ingestion),
   intranasally (by inhalation), intraspinally, intracerebrally, and transdermally (by
   absorbtion, e.g., through a skin duct). A compound or agent can also appropriately
10 be introduced by rechargeable or biodegradable polymeric devices or other
   devices, e.g., patches and pumps, or formulations, which provide for the extended,
   slow, or controlled release of the compound or agent. Administering can also be
   performed, for example, once, a plurality of times, and/or over one or more
   extended periods. In some aspects, the administration includes both direct
15 administration, including self-administration, and indirect administration, including
   the act of prescribing a drug. For example, as used herein, a physician who
   instructs a patient to self-administer a drug, or to have the drug administered by
   another and/or who provides a patient with a prescription for a drug is
   administering the drug to the patient. In some embodiments, a compound or an
20 agent is administered orally, e.g., to a subject by ingestion, or intravenously, e.g.,
   to a subject by injection. In some embodiments, the orally administered compound
   or agent is in an extended release or slow release formulation, or administered
   using a device for such slow or extended release.
   [0073]    In certain embodiments, markers used in the methods of invention are
25 up-regulated or activated in the phagocytic cells compared to the non-phagocytic
   cells. In certain embodiments, markers used in the methods of invention are
   down-regulated or inhibited in the phagocytic cells compared to the non
   phagocytic cells. In certain embodiments, markers used in the methods of
   invention are up-regulated or activated in the >2n phagocytic cells compared to the
30 =2n phagocytic cells. In certain embodiments, markers used in the methods of
   invention are down-regulated or inhibited in the >2n phagocytic cells compared to
                                              24

   the =2n phagocytic cells. Different diseases or conditions can be associated with
   either up-regulation (or activation) or down-regulation (or inhibition) of different
   markers. As used herein, "up-regulation or up-regulated" can refer to an increase
   in expression levels (e.g., gene expression or protein expression), gene copy
 5 numbers, gene dosages, and other qualitative or quantitative detectable state of the
   markers. Similarly, "down-regulation or down-regulated" can refer to an increase
   in expression levels, gene copy numbers, gene dosages, and other qualitative or
   quantitative detectable state of the markers. As used herein, "activation or
   activated" can refer to an active state of the marker, e.g., a phosphorylation state, a
10 DNA methylation state, or a DNA acetylation state. Similarly, "inhibition or
   inhibited" can refer to a repressed state or an inactivated state of the marker, e.g., a
   de-phosphorylation state, a ubiquitination state, a DNA de-methylation state.
   [0074]     In certain embodiments, methods of this invention also comprise at least
   one of the following steps before determination of various profiles: i) lysing the
15 phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic cells; ii) extracting cellular contents from
   the lysed phagocytic cells, the lysed non-phagocytic cells. Any known cell lysis
   and extraction methods can be used herein. In certain embodiments, the cellular
   contents of the phagocytic cells comprise various types of materials that they have
   engulfed, such as, viable diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic diseased
20 cells, circulating tumor cells, infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or
   fragments thereof. In certain embodiments, at least one or more markers of an
   autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition are present in the cellular
   contents of the phagocytic cells. In certain embodiments, there is no marker
   present in the cellular contents of the non-phagocytic cells.
25 [0075]     In certain embodiments, methods of this invention also comprise at least
   one of the following steps before determination of various profiles: i) lysing the
   >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic cells; and ii) extracting cellular
   contents from the lysed >2n phagocytic cells and the lysed =2n phagocytic cells. In
   certain embodiments, the cellular contents of the >2n phagocytic cells comprise
30 various types of materials that they have engulfed, such as, viable diseased cells,
   dead diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells, circulating tumor cells, infectious
                                               25

   agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or fragments thereof. In certain embodiments, at
   least one or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or
   condition are present in the cellular contents of the >2n phagocytic cells. In certain
   embodiments, there is no marker present in the cellular contents of the =2n
 5 phagocytic cells.
   [0076]    In certain embodiments, methods of this invention further comprise
   comparing the identified difference of the disease or condition-specific markers to
   a repository of at least one markers known in the art. Such comparison can further
   confirm the presence of the disease or condition. In some embodiments, the
10 repository of the known markers can be obtained by data mining. The term "data
   mining", as used herein, refers to a process of finding new data patterns, relations,
   or correlations derived from the known data of the databases and of extracting
   practicable information in the future. Typically a computer-based system can be
   trained on data to perform the data mining, e.g., to classify the input data and then
15 subsequently used with new input data to make decisions based on the training
   data. These systems include, but are not limited, expert systems, fuzzy logic, non
   linear regression analysis, multivariate analysis, decision tree classifiers, and
   Bayesian belief networks.
   [0077]    In certain embodiments, the phagocytic cells (e.g., the >2n and the =2n
20 subpopulations) and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated from a bodily fluid
   sample, tissues, or cells. Exemplar bodily fluid sample can be whole blood, urine,
   stool, saliva, lymph fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, cystic fluid, ascites,
   pleural effusion, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the first trimester, fluid
   obtained from a pregnant woman in the second trimester, fluid obtained from a
25 pregnant woman in the third trimester, maternal blood, amniotic fluid, chorionic
   villus sample, fluid from a preimplantation embryo, maternal urine, maternal
   saliva, placental sample, fetal blood, lavage and cervical vaginal fluid, interstitial
   fluid, or ocular fluid. In some embodiments, the phagocytic cells (e.g., the >2n and
   the =2n subpopulations) and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated from white
30 blood cells. In certain embodiments, the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n
   phagocytic cells are separated from a population of phagocytic cells.
                                              26

   [0078]     In the methods of this invention, cell separation/isolation/purification
   methods are used to isolate populations of cells from bodily fluid sample, cells, or
   tissues of a subject. A skilled worker can use any known cell
   separation/isolation/purification techniques to isolate phagocytic cells or non
 5 phagocytic cells from a bodily fluid, or to separate phagocytic cells from non
   phagocytic cells, or to separate >2n phagocytic cells from =2n phagocytic cells.
   Exemplar techniques include, but are not limited to, using antibodies, flow
   cytometry, fluorescence activated cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based
   centrifugation, elution, microfluidics, magnetic separation technique, fluorescent
10 magnetic separation technique, nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput
   microscope-based platform, or a combination thereof.
   [0079]     In certain embodiments, the phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic cells
   are isolated by using a product secreted by the phagocytic cells. In certain
   embodiments, the phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated by
15 using a cell surface target (e.g., receptor protein) on the surface of phagocytic cells.
   In some embodiments, the cell surface target is a protein that has been engulfed by
   the phagocytic cells. In some embodiments, the cell surface target is expressed by
   the phagocytic cells on their plasma membranes. In some embodiments, the cell
   surface target is an exogenous protein that is translocated on the plasma
20 membranes, but not expressed by the phagocytic cells. In some embodiments, the
   cell surface target is a marker of the disease or condition to be detected.
   [0080]    In certain embodiments, the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic
   cells are isolated by using a product secreted by the >2n phagocytic cells. In
   certain embodiments, the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic cells are
25 isolated by using a cell surface target (e.g., receptor protein) on the surface of
   phagocytic cells. In some embodiments, the cell surface target is a protein that has
   been engulfed by the >2n phagocytic cells. In some embodiments, the cell surface
   target is expressed by the >2n phagocytic cells on their plasma membranes. In
   some embodiments, the cell surface target is an exogenous protein that is
30 translocated on the plasma membranes, but not expressed by the >2n phagocytic
                                               27

   cells. In some embodiments, the cell surface target is a marker of the disease or
   condition to be detected.
   [0081]    In certain aspects of the methods described herein, analytes include
   nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, metabolites, or any combinations of
 5 these. In certain aspects of the methods described herein, markers include nucleic
   acids, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, metabolites, or any combinations of these. As
   used herein, the term "nucleic acid" is intended to include DNA molecules (e.g.,
   cDNA or genomic DNA), RNA molecules (e.g., mRNA), DNA-RNA hybrids, and
   analogs of the DNA or RNA generated using nucleotide analogs. The nucleic acid
10 molecule can be a nucleotide, oligonucleotide, double-stranded DNA, single
   stranded DNA, multi-stranded DNA, complementary DNA, genomic DNA, non
   coding DNA, messenger RNA (mRNAs), microRNA (miRNAs), small nucleolar
   RNA (snoRNAs), ribosomal RNA (rRNA), transfer RNA (tRNA), small
   interfering RNA (siRNA), heterogeneous nuclear RNAs (hnRNA), or small hairpin
15 RNA (shRNA).
   [0082]    As used herein, the term "amino acid" includes organic compounds
   containing both a basic amino group and an acidic carboxyl group. Included
   within this term are natural amino acids (e.g., L-amino acids), modified and
   unusual amino acids (e.g., D-amino acids and p-amino acids), as well as amino
20 acids which are known to occur biologically in free or combined form but usually
   do not occur in proteins. Natural protein occurring amino acids include alanine,
   arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine,
   histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, serine, threonine,
   tyrosine, tryptophan, proline, and valine. Natural non-protein amino acids include
25 arginosuccinic acid, citrulline, cysteine sulfuric acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine,
   homocysteine, homoserine, ornithine, 3-monoiodotyrosine, 3,5-diiodotryosine, 3,
   5, 5-triiodothyronine, and 3,3',5,5'- tetraiodothyronine. Modified or unusual amino
   acids include D-amino acids, hydroxylysine, 4-hydroxyproline, N-Cbz-protected
   amino acids, 2,4-diaminobutyric acid, homoarginine, norleucine, N
30 methylaminobutyric acid, naphthylalanine, phenylglycine, .alpha.-phenylproline,
   tert-leucine, 4-aminocyclohexylalanine, N-methyl-norleucine, 3 ,4-dehydroproline,
                                               28

   N,N-dimethylaminoglycine, N-methylaminoglycine, 4-aminopiperidine-4
   carboxylic acid, 6-aminocaproic acid, trans-4-(aminomethyl)
   cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, 2-, 3-, and 4-(aminomethyl)- benzoic acid, 1
   aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, and 2
 5 benzyl-5-aminopentanoic acid.
   [0083]    As used herein, the term "peptide" includes compounds that consist of
   two or more amino acids that are linked by means of a peptide bond. Peptides may
   have a molecular weight of less than 10,000 Daltons, less than 5,000 Daltons, or
   less than 2,500 Daltons. The term "peptide" also includes compounds containing
10 both peptide and non-peptide components, such as pseudopeptide or
   peptidomimetic residues or other non-amino acid components. Such compounds
   containing both peptide and non-peptide components may also be referred to as a
   "peptide analog."
   [0084]    As used herein, the term "protein" includes compounds that consist of
15 amino acids arranged in a linear chain and joined together by peptide bonds
   between the carboxyl and amino groups of adjacent amino acid residues. Proteins
   used in methods of the invention include, but are not limited to, amino acids,
   peptides, antibodies, antibody fragments, cytokines, lipoproteins, or glycoproteins.
   [0085]    As used herein, the term "antibody" includes polyclonal antibodies,
20 monoclonal antibodies (including full length antibodies which have an
   immunoglobulin Fc region), antibody compositions with polyepitopic specificity,
   multispecific antibodies (e.g., bispecific antibodies, diabodies, and single-chain
   molecules, and antibody fragments (e.g., Fab or F(ab') 2, and Fv). For the structure
   and properties of the different classes of antibodies, see e.g., Basic and Clinical
25 Immunology, 8th Edition, Daniel P. Sties, Abba I. Terr and Tristram G. Parsolw
   (eds), Appleton & Lange, Norwalk, Conn., 1994, page 71 and Chapter 6.
   [0086]    As used herein, the term "cytokine" refers to a secreted protein or active
   fragment or mutant thereof that modulates the activity of cells of the immune
   system. Examples of cytokines include, without limitation, interleukins,
                                              29

   interferons, chemokines, tumor necrosis factors, colony-stimulating factors for
   immune cell precursors, and the like.
   [0087]    As used herein, the term "lipoprotein" includes negatively charged
   compositions that comprise a core of hydrophobic cholesteryl esters and
 5 triglyceride surrounded by a surface layer of amphipathic phospholipids with
   which free cholesterol and apolipoproteins are associated. Lipoproteins may be
   characterized by their density (e.g. very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), low
   density lipoprotein (LDL) and high density lipoprotein (HDL)), which is
   determined by their size, the relative amounts of lipid and protein. Lipoproteins
10 may also be characterized by the presence or absence of particular modifications
   (e.g. oxidization, acetylation, or glycation).
   [0088]    As used herein, the term "glycoprotein" includes glycosides which have
   one or more oligo- or polysaccharides covalently attached to a peptide or protein.
   Exemplary glycoproteins can include, without limitation, immunoglobulins,
15 members of the major histocompatibility complex, collagens, mucins, glycoprotein
   Ilb/Ila, glycoprotein-41 (gp4l) and glycoprotein-120 (gp12), follicle-stimulating
   hormone, alpha-fetoprotein, erythropoietin, transferrins, alkaline phosphatase, and
   lectins.
   [0089] As used herein, the term "lipid" includes synthetic or naturally-occurring
20 compounds which are generally amphipathic and biocompatible. Lipids typically
   comprise a hydrophilic component and a hydrophobic component. Exemplary
   lipids include, but are not limited to fatty acids, neutral fats, phosphatides,
   cholesterol, cholesterol esters, triglycerides, glycolipids, glycerolipids,
   glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, sterol lipids, prenol lipids, saccharolipids,
25 polyketides, choline glycerophospholipid, ethanolamine glycerophospholipid,
   phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylserine, lyso-choline
   glycerophospholipid, lyso-ethanolamine glycerophospholipid, phosphatidic acid,
   lyso-phosphatidic acid, sphingomyelin, galactosylceramide, glucosylceramide,
   sulfatide, free fatty acids, prostaglandins, triacylglycerol, diacylglycerol,
30 monoacylglycerol, acyl-CoA, acylcarnitine, oxysterol, ceramide, cardiolipin,
   sphingoid base-I-phosphate, shingosine, lyso-sphingomyelin,, gangliosides,
                                               30

   plasmalogen, sulfatide, ceramide, low density lipoproteins (LDLs), very low
   density lipoproteins (VLDLs), high density lipoproteins (HDLs), sphingoid base-I
   phosphates or derivatives thereof.
   [0090]    As used herein, the term "carbohydrate" includes, but is not limited to,
 5 compounds that contain oxygen, hydrogen and carbon atoms, typically (CH 20)n
   wherein n is an integer. Exemplary carbohydrates include, but are not limited to,
   monosaccharides, disaccharides, polysaccharides, or oligosaccharides.
   [0091]    As used herein, the term "metabolite" includes any molecule used in
   metabolism. Metabolites can be products, substrates, or intermediates in metabolic
10 processes. Included within this term are primary metabolites, secondary
   metabolites, organic metabolites, or inorganic metabolites. Metabolites include,
   without limitation, amino acids, peptides, acylcarnitines, monosaccharides, lipids
   and phospholipids, prostaglandins, hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids,
   hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids, steroids, bile acids, and glycolipids and
15 phospholipids. Exemplary metabolites can be sphingolipids, glycosphingolipids,
   sphingosine, ceramide, sphingomyelin, sphingosylphosphorylcholin,
   dihydrosphingosine, phoshatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylserine,
   lysophoshatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylinositol, lysophosphatidylserine,
   plasmenylphoshatidylcholine, plasmanylphoshatidylcholine, proteinogenic amino
20 acids, Alanine, Aspartic acid, Glutamic acid, Phenylalanine, Glycine, Histidine,
   Leucine, Isoleucine, Lysine, Methionine, Proline, Arginine, Serine, Threonine,
   Valine, Tryptophan, Tyrosine, asymmetrical dimethyl arginine, symmetrical
   dimethyl arginine, Glutamine, Asparagine, Nitrotyrosine, Hydroxyproline,
   Kynurenine, 3-Hydroxy kynurenine, non-proteinogenic amino acids, Ornithine,
25 Citrulline, acylcarnitines, carnitine, free carnitine, acylcamitine,
   hydroxylacylcarnitine, dicarboxylacylcamitines, reducing monosaccharides,
   hexose, pentose, deoxyhexose, creatinine, creatine, spermidine spermine,
   putrescine, dopamine, serotonin, prostaglandins, hydoxyeicosatetraeneoic acid,
   Hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid, leukatrienes, thromboxanes, bile acids, sterols,
30 cholesterols, vitamins and cofactors, drugs, and drug metabolites.
                                               31

   [0092]    In some embodiments of the invention, profiles of at least one or more
   markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition are compared.
   This comparison can be quantitative or qualitative. Quantitative measurements can
   be taken using any of the assays described herein. For example, sequencing, direct
 5 sequencing, random shotgun sequencing, Sanger dideoxy termination sequencing,
   whole-genome sequencing, sequencing by hybridization, pyrosequencing, capillary
   electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis, duplex sequencing, cycle sequencing, single
   base extension sequencing, solid-phase sequencing, high-throughput sequencing,
   massively parallel signature sequencing, emulsion PCR, sequencing by reversible
10 dye terminator, paired-end sequencing, near-term sequencing, exonuclease
   sequencing, sequencing by ligation, short-read sequencing, single-molecule
   sequencing, sequencing-by-synthesis, real-time sequencing, reverse-terminator
   sequencing, nanopore sequencing, 454 sequencing, Solexa Genome Analyzer
   sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, MS-PET sequencing, mass spectrometry, matrix
15 assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass
   spectrometry, electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced
   laser deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
   quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure
   photoionization mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass
20 spectrometry (FTMS), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier
   transform-ion cyclotron resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry,
   secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
   analysis, quantitative PCR, real-time PCR, fluorescence assay, colorimetric assay,
   chemiluminescent assay, or a combination thereof.
25 [0093]    Quantitative comparisons can include statistical analyses such as t-test,
   ANOVA, Krustal-Wallis, Wilcoxon, Mann-Whitney, and odds ratio. Quantitative
   differences can include differences in the levels of markers between profiles or
   differences in the numbers of markers present between profiles, and combinations
   thereof. Examples of levels of the markers can be, without limitation, gene
30 expression levels, nucleic acid levels, protein levels, lipid levels, and the like.
   Qualitative differences can include, but are not limited to, activation and
                                             32

   inactivation, protein degradation, nucleic acid degradation, and covalent
   modifications.
   [0094] In certain embodiments of the invention, the profile is a nucleic acid
   profile, a protein profile, a lipid profile, a carbohydrate profile, a metabolite
 5 profile, or a combination thereof. The profile can be qualitatively or quantitatively
   determined.
   [0095]    A nucleic acid profile can be, without limitation, a genotypic profile, a
   single nucleotide polymorphism profile, a gene mutation profile, a gene copy
   number profile, a DNA methylation profile, a DNA acetylation profile, a
10 chromosome dosage profile, a gene expression profile, or a combination thereof.
   [0096]    The nucleic acid profile can be determined by any methods known in the
   art to detect genotypes, single nucleotide polymorphisms, gene mutations, gene
   copy numbers, DNA methylation states, DNA acetylation states, chromosome
   dosages. Exemplar methods include, but are not limited to, polymerase chain
15 reaction (PCR) analysis, sequencing analysis, electrophoretic analysis, restriction
   fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, Northern blot analysis,
   quantitative PCR, reverse-transcriptase-PCR analysis (RT-PCR), allele-specific
   oligonucleotide hybridization analysis, comparative genomic hybridization,
   heteroduplex mobility assay (HMA), single strand conformational polymorphism
20 (SSCP), denaturing gradient gel electrophisis (DGGE), RNAase mismatch
   analysis, mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser
   desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
   electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
   deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
25 time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
   mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
   matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
   resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
   (SIMS), surface plasmon resonance, Southern blot analysis, in situ hybridization,
30 fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), chromogenic in situ hybridization
   (CISH), immunohistochemistry (IHC), microarray, comparative genomic
                                                33

   hybridization, karyotyping, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification
   (MLPA), Quantitative Multiplex PCR of Short Fluorescent Fragments (QMPSF),
   microscopy, methylation specific PCR (MSP) assay, HpaII tiny fragment
   Enrichment by Ligation-mediated PCR (HELP) assay, radioactive acetate labeling
 5 assays, colorimetric DNA acetylation assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation
   combined with microarray (ChIP-on-chip) assay, restriction landmark genomic
   scanning, Methylated DNA immunoprecipitation (MeDIP), molecular break light
   assay for DNA adenine methyltransferase activity, chromatographic separation,
   methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme analysis, bisulfite-driven conversion of
10 non-methylated cytosine to uracil, methyl-binding PCR analysis, or a combination
   thereof.
   [0097]    As used herein, the term "sequencing" is used in a broad sense and refers
   to any technique known in the art that allows the order of at least some consecutive
   nucleotides in at least part of a nucleic acid to be identified, including without
15 limitation at least part of an extension product or a vector insert. Exemplar
   sequencing techniques include direct sequencing, random shotgun sequencing,
   Sanger dideoxy termination sequencing, whole-genome sequencing, sequencing by
   hybridization, pyrosequencing, capillary electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis,
   duplex sequencing, cycle sequencing, single-base extension sequencing, solid
20 phase sequencing, high-throughput sequencing, massively parallel signature
   sequencing, emulsion PCR, sequencing by reversible dye terminator, paired-end
   sequencing, near-term sequencing, exonuclease sequencing, sequencing by
   ligation, short-read sequencing, single-molecule sequencing, sequencing-by
   synthesis, real-time sequencing, reverse-terminator sequencing, nanopore
25 sequencing, 454 sequencing, Solexa Genome Analyzer sequencing, SOLiD@
   sequencing, MS-PET sequencing, mass spectrometry, and a combination thereof.
   In some embodiments, sequencing comprises an detecting the sequencing product
   using an instrument, for example but not limited to an ABI PRISM@ 377 DNA
   Sequencer, an ABI PRISM 310, 3100, 3100-Avant, 3730, or 3730xI Genetic
30 Analyzer, an ABI PRISM 3700 DNA Analyzer, or an Applied Biosystems
   SOLiD TM System (all from Applied Biosystems), a Genome Sequencer 20 System
   (Roche Applied Science), or a mass spectrometer. In certain embodiments,
                                              34

   sequencing comprises emulsion PCR. In certain embodiments, sequencing
   comprises a high throughput sequencing technique, for example but not limited to,
   massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS).
   [0098]    In further embodiments of the invention, a protein profile can be a protein
 5 expression profile, a protein activation profile, or a combination thereof. In some
   embodiments, a protein activation profile can comprise determining a
   phosphorylation state, an ubiquitination state, a myristoylation state, or a
   conformational state of the protein.
   [0099]    A protein profile can be detected by any methods known in the art for
10 detecting protein expression levels, protein phosphorylation state, protein
   ubiquitination state, protein myristoylation state, or protein conformational state.
   In some embodiments, a protein profile can be determined by an
   immunohistochemistry assay, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), in
   situ hybridization, chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion
15 chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas
   chromatography, mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted
   laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
   electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
   deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
20 time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
   mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
   matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
   resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
   (SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microscopy, microfluidic chip-based assays, surface
25 plasmon resonance, sequencing, Western blotting assay, or a combination thereof.
   [0100]    In some embodiments of the invention, a lipid profile can be determined
   by chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, high
   performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography, mass
   spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser
30 desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
   electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
                                              35

   deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
   time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
   mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
   matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
 5 resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
   (SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microfluidic chip-based assay, detection of
   fluorescence, detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof. Further
   methods for analyzing lipid content in a biological sample are known in the art
   (See, e.g., Kang et al. (1992) Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 1128:267; Weylandt et al.
10 (1996) Lipids 31 :977; J. Schiller et al. (1999) Anal. Biochem. 267:46; Kang et
   al. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98:4050; Schiller et al. (2004) Prog.
   Lipid Res. 43:499). One exemplary method of lipid analysis is to extract lipids
   from a biological sample (e.g. using chloroform-methanol (2:1, vol/vol)
   containing 0.005% butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, as an antioxidant)), prepare
15 fatty acid methyl esters (e.g., using 14% BF3-methanol reagent), and quantify the
   fatty acid methyl esters (e.g., by HPLC, TLC, by gas chromatography-mass
   spectroscopy using commercially available gas chromatographs, mass
   spectrometers, and/or combination gas chromatograph/mass spectrometers). Fatty
   acid mass is determined by comparing areas of various analyzed fatty acids to that
20 of a fixed concentration of internal standard.
   [0101]    In some embodiments of the invention, a carbohydrate profile can be
   determined by chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion
   chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas
   chromatography, mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted
25 laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
   electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
   deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
   time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
   mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
30 matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
   resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
                                             36

   (SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microfluidic chip-based assay, detection of
   fluorescence, detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof.
   [0102]    In some embodiments of the invention, a metabolite profile can be
   determind by chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion
 5 chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas
   chromatography, mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted
   laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
   electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
   deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
10 time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
   mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
   matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
   resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
   (SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microfluidic chip-based assay, detection of
15 fluorescence, detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof.
   [0103] As used herein, the "difference" between different profiles detected by the
   methods of this invention can refer to different gene copy numbers, different DNA,
   RNA, protein, lipid, or carbohydrate expression levels, different DNA methylation
   states, different DNA acetylation states, and different protein modification states.
20 The difference can be a difference greater than 1 fold. In some embodiments, the
   difference is a 1.05-fold, 1.1-fold, 1.2-fold, 1.3-fold, 1.4-fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 2.5
   fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, 5-fold, 6-fold, 7-fold, 8-fold, 9-fold, or 10-fold difference. In
   some embodiments, the difference is any fold difference between 1-10, 2-10, 5-10,
   10-20, or 10-100 folds.
25 [0104]    A general principle of assays to detect markers involves preparing a
   sample or reaction mixture that may contain the marker (e.g., one or more of DNA,
   RNA, protein, polypeptide, carbohydrate, lipid, metabolite, and the like) and a
   probe under appropriate conditions and for a time sufficient to allow the marker
   and probe to interact and bind, thus forming a complex that can be removed and/or
30 detected in the reaction mixture. These assays can be conducted in a variety of
   ways.
                                               37

   [0105]    For example, one method to conduct such an assay would involve
   anchoring the marker or probe onto a solid phase support, also referred to as a
   substrate, and detecting target marker/probe complexes anchored on the solid
   phase at the end of the reaction. In one embodiment of such a method, a sample
 5 from a subject, which is to be assayed for presence and/or concentration of marker,
   can be anchored onto a carrier or solid phase support. In another embodiment, the
   reverse situation is possible, in which the probe can be anchored to a solid phase
   and a sample from a subject can be allowed to react as an unanchored component
   of the assay.
10 [0106]    There are many established methods for anchoring assay components to a
   solid phase. These include, without limitation, marker or probe molecules which
   are immobilized through conjugation of biotin and streptavidin. Such biotinylated
   assay components can be prepared from biotin-NHS(N-hydroxy-succinimide)
   using techniques known in the art (e.g., biotinylation kit, Pierce Chemicals,
15 Rockford, IL), and immobilized in the wells of streptavidin-coated 96 well plates
   (Pierce Chemical). In certain embodiments, the surfaces with immobilized assay
   components can be prepared in advance and stored.
   [0107]    Other suitable carriers or solid phase supports for such assays include any
   material capable of binding the class of molecule to which the marker or probe
20 belongs. Well known supports or carriers include, but are not limited to, glass,
   polystyrene, nylon, polypropylene, nylon, polyethylene, dextran, amylases, natural
   and modified celluloses, polyacrylamides, gabbros, and magnetite.
   [0108]    In order to conduct assays with the above mentioned approaches, the non
   immobilized component is added to the solid phase upon which the second
25 component is anchored. After the reaction is complete, uncomplexed components
   may be removed (e.g., by washing) under conditions such that any complexes
   formed will remain immobilized upon the solid phase. The detection of
   marker/probe complexes anchored to the solid phase can be accomplished in a
   number of methods outlined herein.
                                              38

   [0109]     In certain exemplary embodiments, the probe, when it is the unanchored
   assay component, can be labeled for the purpose of detection and readout of the
   assay, either directly or indirectly, with detectable labels discussed herein and
   which are well-known to one skilled in the art.
 5 [0110]     It is also possible to directly detect marker/probe complex formation
   without further manipulation or labeling of either component (marker or probe),
   for example by utilizing the technique of fluorescence energy transfer (see, for
   example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,631,169 and 4,868,103). A fluorophore label on the
   first, 'donor' molecule is selected such that, upon excitation with incident light of
10 appropriate wavelength, its emitted fluorescent energy will be absorbed by a
   fluorescent label on a second 'acceptor' molecule, which in turn is able to fluoresce
   due to the absorbed energy. Alternately, the 'donor' protein molecule may simply
   utilize the natural fluorescent energy of tryptophan residues. Labels are chosen
   that emit different wavelengths of light, such that the 'acceptor' molecule label may
15 be differentiated from that of the 'donor'. Since the efficiency of energy transfer
   between the labels is related to the distance separating the molecules, spatial
   relationships between the molecules can be assessed. In a situation in which
   binding occurs between the molecules, the fluorescent emission of the 'acceptor'
   molecule label in the assay should be maximal. An FET binding event can be
20 conveniently measured through standard fluorometric detection means well known
   in the art (e.g., using a fluorimeter).
   [0111]     In another embodiment, determination of the ability of a probe to
   recognize a marker can be accomplished without labeling either assay component
   (probe or marker) by utilizing a technology such as real-time Biomolecular
25 Interaction Analysis (BIA) (see, e.g., Sjolander, S. and Urbaniczky, C, 1991, Anal.
   Chem. 63:2338 2345 and Szabo et al, 1995, Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 5:699
   705). As used herein, "BIA" or "surface plasmon resonance" is a technology for
   studying biospecific interactions in real time, without labeling any of the
   interactants (e.g., BlAcore). Changes in the mass at the binding surface (indicative
30 of a binding event) result in alterations of the refractive index of light near the
   surface (the optical phenomenon of surface plasmon resonance (SPR)), resulting in
                                                 39

   a detectable signal which can be used as an indication of real-time reactions
   between biological molecules.
   [0112]     Alternatively, in another embodiment, analogous diagnostic and
   prognostic assays can be conducted with marker and probe as solutes in a liquid
 5 phase. In such an assay, the complexed marker and probe are separated from
   uncomplexed components by any of a number of standard techniques, including
   but not limited to: differential centrifugation, chromatography, electrophoresis and
   immunoprecipitation. In differential centrifugation, marker/probe complexes may
   be separated from uncomplexed assay components through a series of centrifugal
10 steps, due to the different sedimentation equilibria of complexes based on their
   different sizes and densities (see, for example, Rivas and Minton (1993) Trends
   Biochem. Sci. 18:284). Standard chromatographic techniques may also be
   utilized to separate complexed molecules from uncomplexed ones. For example,
   gel filtration chromatography separates molecules based on size, and through the
15 utilization of an appropriate gel filtration resin in a column format, for example,
   the relatively larger complex may be separated from the relatively smaller
   uncomplexed components. Similarly, the relatively different charge properties of
   the marker/probe complex as compared to the uncomplexed components may be
   exploited to differentiate the complex from uncomplexed components, for example
20 through the utilization of ion-exchange chromatography resins. Such resins and
   chromatographic techniques are well known to one skilled in the art (see, e.g.,
   Heegaard (1998) J. Mol. Recognit. 11 :141; Hage and Tweed (1997) J.
   Chromatogr. B. Biomed. Sci. Appl. 12:499). Gel electrophoresis may also be
   employed to separate complexed assay components from unbound components
25 (see, e.g., Ausubel et al, ed., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley
   & Sons, New York, 1987 1999). In this technique, protein or nucleic acid
   complexes are separated based on size or charge, for example. In order to maintain
   the binding interaction during the electrophoretic process, non-denaturing gel
   matrix materials and conditions in the absence of reducing agent are typically
30 preferred. Appropriate conditions to the particular assay and components thereof
   will be well known to one skilled in the art.
                                               40

   [0113]    In certain exemplary embodiments, the level of mRNA corresponding to
   the marker can be determined either by in situ and/or by in vitro formats in a
   biological sample using methods known in the art. Many expression detection
   methods use isolated RNA. For in vitro methods, any RNA isolation technique
 5 that does not select against the isolation of mRNA can be utilized for the
   purification of RNA from blood cells (see, e.g., Ausubel et al, ed., Current
   Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, New York 1987 1999).
   Additionally, large numbers of cells and/or samples can readily be processed using
   techniques well known to those of skill in the art, such as, for example, the single
10 step RNA isolation process of Chomczynski (1989, U.S. Patent No. 4,843,155).
   [0114]    Isolated mRNA can be used in hybridization or amplification assays that
   include, but are not limited to, Southern or Northern analyses, polymerase chain
   reaction analyses and probe arrays. In certain exemplary embodiments, a
   diagnostic method for the detection of mRNA levels involves contacting the
15 isolated mRNA with a nucleic acid molecule (probe) that can hybridize to the
   mRNA encoded by the gene being detected. The nucleic acid probe can be, for
   example, a full-length cDNA, or a portion thereof, such as an oligonucleotide of at
   least 7, 15, 30, 50, 100, 250 or 500 nucleotides in length and sufficient to
   specifically hybridize under stringent conditions to an mRNA or genomic DNA
20 encoding a marker of the present invention. Other suitable probes for use in the
   diagnostic assays of the invention are described herein. Hybridization of an
   mRNA with the probe indicates that the marker in question is being expressed.
   [0115]    In one format, the mRNA is immobilized on a solid surface and contacted
   with a probe, for example by running the isolated mRNA on an agarose gel and
25 transferring the mRNA from the gel to a membrane, such as nitrocellulose. In an
   alternative format, the probe(s) are immobilized on a solid surface and the mRNA
   is contacted with the probe(s), for example, in a gene chip array. A skilled artisan
   can readily adapt known mRNA detection methods for use in detecting the level of
   mRNA encoded by the markers of the present invention.
30 [0116]    An alternative method for determining the level of mRNA corresponding
   to a marker of the present invention in a sample involves the process of nucleic
                                              41

   acid amplification, e.g., by RT-PCR (the experimental embodiment set forth in
   U.S. Patent Nos. 4,683,195 and 4,683,202), COLD-PCR (Li et al. (2008) Nat.
   Med. 14:579), ligase chain reaction (Barany, 1991, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA,
   88:189), self sustained sequence replication (Guatelli et al., 1990, Proc. Natl.
 5 Acad. Sci. USA 87:1874), transcriptional amplification system (Kwoh et al.
   (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86:1173),          Q- Beta Replicase  (Lizardi et al.
   (1988) Bio/Technology 6:1197), rolling circle replication (U.S. Patent No.
   5,854,033) or any other nucleic acid amplification method, followed by the
   detection of the amplified molecules using techniques well known to those of skill
10 in the art. These detection schemes are especially useful for the detection of
   nucleic acid molecules if such molecules are present in very low numbers. As used
   herein, amplification primers are defined as being a pair of nucleic acid molecules
   that can anneal to 5' or 3' regions of a gene (plus and minus strands, respectively,
   or vice-versa) and contain a short region in between. In general, amplification
15 primers are from about 10 to 30 nucleotides in length and flank a region from
   about 50 to 200 nucleotides in length. Under appropriate conditions and with
   appropriate reagents, such primers permit the amplification of a nucleic acid
   molecule comprising the nucleotide sequence flanked by the primers.
   [0117]    For in situ methods, mRNA does not need to be isolated from the sample
20 (e.g., a bodily fluid (e.g., blood cells)) prior to detection. In such methods, a cell or
   tissue sample is prepared/processed using known histological methods. The
   sample is then immobilized on a support, typically a glass slide, and then contacted
   with a probe that can hybridize to mRNA that encodes the marker.
   [0118]    As an alternative to making determinations based on the absolute
25 expression level of the marker, determinations may be based on the normalized
   expression level of the marker. Expression levels are normalized by correcting the
   absolute expression level of a marker by comparing its expression to the
   expression of a gene that is not a marker, e.g., a housekeeping gene that is
   constitutively expressed. Suitable genes for normalization include housekeeping
30 genes such as the actin gene, or epithelial cell- specific genes. This normalization
   allows the comparison of the expression level in a patient sample from one source
                                                42

   to a patient sample from another source, e.g., to compare a phagocytic blood cell
   from an individual to a non-phagocytic blood cell from the individual.
   [0119]    In one embodiment of this invention, a protein or polypeptide
   corresponding to a marker is detected. In certain embodiments, an agent for
 5 detecting a protein or polypeptide can be an antibody capable of binding to the
   polypeptide, such as an antibody with a detectable label. As used herein, the term
   "labeled," with regard to a probe or antibody, is intended to encompass direct
   labeling of the probe or antibody by coupling (i.e., physically linking) a detectable
   substance to the probe or antibody, as well as indirect labeling of the probe or
10 antibody by reactivity with another reagent that is directly labeled. Examples of
   indirect labeling include detection of a primary antibody using a fluorescently
   labeled secondary antibody and end-labeling of a DNA probe with biotin such that
   it can be detected with fluorescently labeled streptavidin. Antibodies can be
   polyclonal or monoclonal. An intact antibody, or a fragment thereof (e.g., Fab or
15 F(ab')2) can be used. In one format, antibodies, or antibody fragments, can be used
   in methods such as Western blots or immunofluorescence techniques to detect the
   expressed proteins. In such uses, it is generally preferable to immobilize either the
   antibody or proteins on a solid support. Suitable solid phase supports or carriers
   include any support capable of binding an antigen or an antibody. Well known
20 supports or carriers include glass, polystyrene, polypropylene, polyethylene,
   dextran, nylon, amylases, natural and modified celluloses, polyacrylamides,
   gabbros, magnetite and the like.
   [0120]    A variety of formats can be employed to determine whether a sample
   contains a protein that binds to a given antibody. Examples of such formats
25 include, but are not limited to, competitive and non-competitive immunoassay,
   enzyme immunoassay (EIA), radioimmunoassay (RIA), antigen capture assays,
   two-antibody sandwich assays, Western blot analysis, enzyme linked
   immunoabsorbant assay (ELISA), a planar array, a colorimetric assay, a
   chemiluminescent assay, a fluorescent assay, and the like. Immunoassays,
30 including radioimmmunoassays and enzyme- linked immunoassays, are useful in
   the methods of the present invention. A skilled artisan can readily adapt known
                                             43

   protein/antibody detection methods for use in determining whether cells (e.g.,
   bodily fluid cells such as blood cells) express a marker of the present invention.
   [0121]    One skilled in the art will know many other suitable carriers for binding
   antibody or antigen, and will be able to adapt such support for use with the present
 5 invention. For example, protein isolated from cells (e.g., bodily fluid cells such as
   blood cells) can be run on a polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immobilized
   onto a solid phase support such as nitrocellulose. The support can then be washed
   with suitable buffers followed by treatment with the detectably labeled antibody.
   The solid phase support can then be washed with the buffer a second time to
10 remove unbound antibody. The amount of bound label on the solid support can
   then be detected by conventional means.
    [0122]   In certain exemplary embodiments, assays are provided for diagnosis,
   prognosis, assessing the risk of developing a disease, assessing the efficacy of a
   treatment, monitoring the progression or regression of a disease, and identifying a
15 compound capable of ameliorating or treating a disease. An exemplary method for
   these methods involves obtaining a bodily fluid sample from a test subject and
   contacting the bodily fluid sample with a compound or an agent capable of
   detecting one or more of the markers of the disease or condition, e.g., marker
   nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA, genomic DNA), marker peptide (e.g., polypeptide or
20 protein), marker lipid (e.g., cholesterol), or marker metabolite (e.g., creatinine)
   such that the presence of the marker is detected in the biological sample. In one
   embodiment, an agent for detecting marker mRNA or genomic DNA is a labeled
   nucleic acid probe capable of hybridizing to marker mRNA or genomic DNA. The
   nucleic acid probe can be, for example, a full-length marker nucleic acid or a
25 portion thereof. Other suitable probes for use in the diagnostic assays of the
   invention are described herein.
   [0123]    As used herein, a compound capable of ameliorating or treating an
   autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition can include, without
   limitations, any substance that can improve symptoms or prognosis, prevent
30 progression of the disease or condition, promote regression of the disease or
   condition, or eliminate the disease or condition.
                                               44

   [0124]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying a
   compound capable of ameliorating or treating an autoimmune or immune-related
   disease or condition in a subject comprising: a) determining a first profile of one or
   more markers of the disease or condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells
 5 from the subject before administering the compound to the subject; determining a
   second profile of at least one of the one or more markers from a population of =2n
   phagocytic cells from the subject before administering the compound to the
   subject; identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at
   least one or more of said markers; b) determining a third profile of the one or more
10 markers from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the
   administration of the compound; determining a fourth profile of at least one of the
   one or more markers from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject
   after the administration of the compound; identifying a second difference between
   the third and fourth profiles of at least one or more of said markers; c) identifying a
15 difference between the first difference and the second difference, wherein the
   identified difference indicates that the compound is capable of ameliorating or
   treating said disease or condition in the subject.
   [0125]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers for an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
20 comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of analytes
   from non-phagocytic cells from the subject having said disease or condition;
   identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles, wherein
   the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the second
25 profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   control subject not having said disease or condition; determining a fourth profile of
   analytes from non-phagocytic cells from the control subject not having said disease
   or condition; identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth
   profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile
30 relative to the fourth profile; c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first
   set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes
   being markers of said disease or condition. Optionally, this method further
                                                45

   comprises d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
   said disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition; obtaining
   a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said disease or
   condition in the subject having said disease or condition; identifying a third set of
 5 differences between the fifth and sixth profiles, wherein the third set of differences
   is specific to the fifth profile relative to the sixth profile; and e) identifying at least
   one of the one or more markers of c) present in the third set of differences.
   [0126]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
10 comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of analytes
   from phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said disease or condition;
             identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
   wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
15 second profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells
   from the subject having said disease or condition; determining a fourth profile of
   analytes from non-phagocytic cells from the control subject not having said disease
   or condition; identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth
   profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile
20 relative to the fourth profile; c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first
   set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes
   being markers of said disease or condition. And optionally, the method further
   comprises d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
   said disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition; obtaining
25 a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said disease or
   condition in the subject having said disease or condition; identifying a third set of
   differences between the fifth and sixth profiles, wherein the third set of differences
   is specific to the fifth profile relative to the sixth profile; and e) identifying at least
   one of the one or more markers of c) present in the third set of differences.
30 [0127]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
                                                 46

   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; obtaining a second profile of analytes
   from phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said disease or condition
   by data mining; identifying a first set of differences between the first and second
 5 profiles, wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to
   the second profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from non-phagocytic
   cells from the subject having said disease or condition; obtaining a fourth profile of
   analytes from non-phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said disease
   or condition by data mining; identifying a second set of differences between the
10 third and fourth profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the
   third profile relative to the fourth profile; and c) identifying one or more analytes
   specific to the first set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the
   identified analytes being markers of said disease or condition. And optionally, the
   method further comprises d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or
15 tissues affected by said disease or condition by data mining; obtaining a sixth
   profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said disease or condition by
   data mining; identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth
   profiles, wherein the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative
   to the sixth profile; and e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c)
20 present in the third set of differences.
   [0128]     In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
   subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of analytes
25 from non-phagocytic cells from the subject having said disease or condition;
   identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles, wherein
   the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the second
   profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
   said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
30 determining a fourth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by said
   disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition; identifying
   a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles, wherein the
                                                47

   second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the fourth profile;
   c) identifying one or more analytes present in both the first set of differences and
   the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers of said disease
   or condition. And optionally, the method further comprises d) determining a fifth
 5 profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a control subject not having said
   disease or condition; identifying a third set of differences between the first and
   fifth profiles, wherein the third set of differences is specific to the first profile
   relative to the fifth profile; e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of
   c) present in the third set of differences.
10 [0129]    In yet another aspect, this invention provides a method for identifying one
   or more markers of an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition
   comprising: a) determining a first profile of analytes from >2n phagocytic cells
   from a subject having said disease or condition; determining a second profile of
   analytes from =2n phagocytic cells from the subject having said disease or
15 condition;       identifying a first set of differences between the first and second
   profiles, wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to
   the second profile; b) determining a third profile of analytes from >2n phagocytic
   cells from a control subject not having said disease or condition; determining a
   fourth profile of analytes from =2n phagocytic cells from the control subject not
20 having said disease or condition; identifying a second set of differences between
   the third and fourth profiles, wherein the second set of differences is specific to the
   third profile relative to the fourth profile; and c) identifying one or more analytes
   specific to the first set of differences relative to the second set of differences, the
   identified analytes being markers of said disease or condition. And optionally, the
25 method further comprises: d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or
   tissues affected by said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or
   condition; obtaining a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
   said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
   identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth profiles, wherein
30 the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative to the sixth profile;
   and e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the third
   set of differences.
                                                48

   [0130]    An exemplary method for detecting the presence or absence of an analyte
   (e.g., DNA, RNA, protein, polypeptide, carbohydrate, lipid or the like)
   corresponding to a marker of the invention in a biological sample involves
   obtaining a bodily fluid sample (e.g., blood) from a test subject and contacting the
 5 bodily fluid sample with a compound or an agent capable of detecting one or more
   markers. Detection methods described herein can be used to detect one or more
   markers in a biological sample in vitro as well as in vivo. For example, in vitro
   techniques for detection of mRNA include Northern hybridizations and in situ
   hybridizations. In vitro techniques for detection of a polypeptide corresponding to
10 a marker of the invention include enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs),
   Western blots, immunoprecipitations and immunofluorescence. In vitro techniques
   for detection of genomic DNA include Southern hybridizations. Furthermore, in
   vivo techniques for detection of a polypeptide corresponding to a marker of the
   invention include introducing into a subject a labeled antibody directed against the
15 polypeptide. For example, the antibody can be labeled with a radioactive marker
   whose presence and location in a subject can be detected by standard imaging
   techniques. Because each marker is also an analyte, any method described herein
   to detect the presence or absence of a marker can also be used to detect the
   presence or absence of an analyte.
20 [0131]    The marker that is useful in the methods of the invention includes those
   disclosed in, for example, United States Patents 7,604,948, 7,670,764, 6,986,995,
   and 6,631,330, United States Patent Application Publication 20070141625,
   20090263474,20100075891,20100104579,20100105086,20100131286,
   20090176217,20090202469,20020119118,20090258025,20100137393,
25 20100120629,20090318392,20090196927,20090023166,20080227709,
   20080039402,20080026378,20070224638,20070218519,20060210562,
   20050266432,20050164233,20050130245,20090130683,20090110667,
   20090054321, 20090023166, and 20080274118, and International Patent
   Application Publication WO/2009/043848, WO/2010/053587, WO/2010/046503,
30 WO/2010/039714, WO/2009/100342, WO/2009/053537, WO/2009/017444,
   WO/2008/156867, WO/2008/147938, WO/2008/129296, WO/2008/137835,
   WO/2008/082519, WO/2008/064336, WO/2008/043782, WO/2008/043725,
                                             49

   WO/2007/047907, WO/2006/125117, WO/2006/114661, WO/2006/020899,
   WO/2005/114222, WO/2005/007836, WO/2004/076639, WO/2004/050704, and
   WO/2001/014881.
   [0132]    The marker that is useful in the methods of the invention can also include
 5 those markers disclosed in, for example, RM O'Hara, Jr, et al., Drug Discovery
   Today (2006), 11:342-347; HE Prince, Biomarkers (2005), 10 Suppl 1:S44-S49; C
   Selmi and ME Gershwin, Gut (2010), 59:712-713; K Ray, Nature Reviews
   Rheumatology (2010) 6:3 80; GP Blaney et al., Ann N YAcad Sci (2009),
   1173:384-390; W Hueber and WH Robinson, Proteomics (2006), 6:4100-4105.
10 [0133]    The marker that is useful in the methods of the invention can include any
   mutation in any one of the above-identified markers. Mutation sites and sequences
   can be identified, for example, by databases or repositories of such information,
   e.g., The Human Gene Mutation Database (www.hgmd.cf.ac.uk), the Single
   Nucleotide Polymorphism Database (dbSNP,
15 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/SNP), and the Online Mendelian Inheritance in
   Man (OMIM) website (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/omim).
   [0134]    The marker that is useful in the methods of the invention can include any
   marker that is known to be associated with an autoimmune or immune-related
   disease or condition.
20 [0135]    The present invention also provides kits that comprise marker detection
   agents that detect at least one or more of the markers identified by the methods of
   this invention. This present invention also provides methods of treating or
   preventing an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition in a subject
   comprising administering to said subject an agent that modulates the activity or
25 expression of at least one or more of the markers identified by the methods of this
   invention.
   [0136]    It is to be understood that the embodiments of the present invention which
   have been described are merely illustrative of some of the applications of the
   principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made by
                                              50

    those skilled in the art based upon the teachings presented herein without departing
    from the true spirit and scope of the invention.
    [0137]    The following examples are set forth as being representative of the
    present invention. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the scope of
 5  the invention as these and other equivalent embodiments will be apparent in view
    of the present disclosure, figures, and accompanying claims.
    Examples
   Example 1: A Representative Method for the Separation of Phagocytic Cells
   from Non-Phagocytic Cells and the Analysis of Expression Profiles
10  [0138]    1. With reference to FIG. IC, coat plates with avidin.
    [0139]    2. Add biotinylated antibody to non-phagocytic blood cell (e.g., T cells)
    to the wells, incubate for 30 min at RT, wash wells.
    [0140]    3. Add magnetic beads.
    [0141]    4. Add WBC blood sample.
15  [0142]    5. Incubate at 37'C (30 minutes - 1 hour).
    [0143]    6. Following phagocytosis of beads by phagocytic cells and binding of
    avidin-biotin-antibody to non-phagocytic cells, place plate on top of magnet and
    wash (the phagocytic cells that internalized the magnetic beads and the non
    phagocytic cells bound to the antibody will stay; all other cells will be washed
20  away).
    [0144]    7. Remove magnet and collect phagocytic cells.
    [0145]    8. Isolate RNA from phagocytic cells (e.g., cells bound to a magnetic
    bead) and of non-phagocytic cells (e.g., those cells attached to the bottom of the
    wells via the anti-non-phagocytic cell biotinylated antibody-avidin bound), prepare
25  cDNA, cRNA and use to differentiate genetic profiles (e.g., whole gene arrays
    and/or cancer gene arrays) of phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells.
                                              51

    [0146]    9. Isolate DNA from each cell sample and identify disease-DNA
    signatures selectively present in phagocytes (i.e., absent in non-phagocytes);
    compare the profiles (e.g., whole gene arrays, DNA mutations and/or SNPs
    obtained in phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells).
 5  [0147]     10. Isolate protein from each cell sample, run Western blots using
    antibodies to known proteins overexpressed in an individual with an autoimmune
    or immune-related disease or condition, and compare the profiles obtained in
    phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells. Alternatively, use mass spectroscopy to
    identify the proteins.
10  [0148]     11. Isolate lipids from each cell sample and compare quantity and
    quality, for example using HPLC.
   Example 2: A Representative Method for the Separation of Phagocytic Cells
   from Non-Phagocytic Cells and the Analysis of Expression Profiles
    [0149]     1. With reference to FIG. IC, lyse RBCs in blood sample.
15  [0150]    2. Cytospin WBC on glass slides.
    [0151]    3. Fix cells in acetone/methanol (-20'C for 5 minutes).
    [0152]    4. Stain with hematoxylin and eosin stain and anti-T cell antibody.
    [0153]    5. Isolate T cells (non-phagocytic) and macrophages (phagocytic) using
    laser capture microscopy (LCM).
20  [0154]    6. Isolate RNA from phagocytic cells and of non-phagocytic cells,
    prepare cDNA, cRNA and use to differentiate genetic profiles (e.g., whole gene
    arrays and/or disease gene arrays) of phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells.
    [0155]    7. Isolate DNA from each cell sample, run DNA arrays, and compare the
    profiles (e.g., whole gene arrays, DNA mutations and/or SNPs) obtained in
25  phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells.
                                               52

    [0156]    8. Isolate protein from each cell sample, run Western blots using
    antibodies to known proteins overexpressed in an individual with an autoimmune
    or immune-related disease or condition, and compare the profiles obtained in
    phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells. Alternatively, use mass spectroscopy to
 5  identify the proteins.
    [0157]    9. Isolate lipids from each cell sample and compare quantity and quality,
    for example using HPLC.
   Example 3: A Representative Method for the Separation of Phagocytic Cells
   from Non-Phagocytic Cells and the Analysis of Expression Profiles
10  [0158]     1. With reference to FIG. IC, lyse RBC from a blood sample.
    [0159]    2. Use magnetic antibody-conjugated beads to isolate non-phagocytic
    (e.g., T cells) and phagocytic cells (e.g., neutrophils and/or macrophages and/or
    monocytes) from whole blood.
    [0160]    3. Isolate RNA from each cell sample, prepare cDNA, cRNA and use to
15  differentiate genetic profiles (e.g., cancer gene array) of phagocytic and non
    phagocytic cells.
    [0161]    4. Isolate DNA from each cell sample, run DNA arrays, and compare the
    profiles obtained in phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells.
    [0162]    5. Isolate protein from each cell sample, run Western blots using
20  antibodies to known proteins overexpressed in an individual with an autoimmune
    or immune-related disease or condition, and compare the profiles obtained in
    phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells. Alternatively, use mass spectroscopy to
    identify the proteins.
    [0163]    6. Isolate lipids from each cell sample and compare quantity and quality,
25  for example using HPLC.
   Example 4: A Representative Method for the Separation of Phagocytic Cells
   from Non-Phagocytic Cells and the Analysis of Expression Profiles
                                                53

    [0164]     1. With reference to FIG. IC, stain WBC with fluorescent antibodies
    specific against a particular cell subpopulation (e.g., neutrophils, macrophages,
    monocytes, T cells and the like).
    [0165]    2. Sort the cells (e.g., by FACS).
 5  [0166]    3. Isolate RNA from each cell sample, prepare cDNA, cRNA and use to
    differentiate genetic profiles (e.g., gene array) of phagocytic and non-phagocytic
    cells.
    [0167]    4. Isolate DNA from each cell sample, run DNA arrays, and compare the
    profiles obtained in phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells.
10  [0168]    5. Isolate protein from each cell sample, run Western blots using
    antibodies to known proteins overexpressed in an individual with an autoimmune
    or immune-related disease or condition, and compare the profiles obtained in
    phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells. Alternatively, use mass spectroscopy to
    identify the proteins.
15  [0169]    6. Isolate lipids from each cell sample and compare quantity and quality,
    for example using HPLC.
   Example 5: A Representative Method for the Separation of Phagocytic Cells
   from Non-Phagocytic Cells and the Analysis of Expression Profiles
    [0170]     1. With reference to FIG. ID, stain WBC with fluorescent antibodies to
20  each cell subpopulation (e.g., neutrophils, macrophages, monocytes, and T cells),
    and then stain with DNA dye (e.g., propidium iodide).
    [0171]    2. Sort the cells (FACS) into T cells, neutrophils (2n), neutrophils (>2n) ,
    macrophages (2n), macrophages (>2n), monocytes (2n), and monocytes (>2n).
    [0172]    3. Isolate RNA from T cells, neutrophils (>2n), macrophages (>2n), and
25  monocytes (>2n). Then prepare cDNA, cRNA and use to differentiate genetic
    profiles (e.g., disease gene array) of phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells.
                                               54

    [0173]   4. Isolate DNA from T cells, neutrophils (>2n), macrophages (>2n), and
    monocytes (>2n). Run DNA arrays and compare the profiles obtained in
    phagocytic and nonphagocytic cells.
    [0174]    5. Isolate protein from T cells, neutrophils (>2n), macrophages (>2n),
 5  and monocytes (>2n). Run Western blots using antibodies to known proteins
    overexpressed in an individual with an autoimmune or immune-related disease or
    condition, and compare the profiles obtained in phagocytic and non-phagocytic
    cells. Alternatively, use mass spectroscopy to identify the proteins.
    [0175]    6. Isolate lipids from T cells, neutrophils (>2n), macrophages (>2n), and
10  monocytes (>2n). Compare quantity and quality of lipids, for example using
    HPLC.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
   and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer
   or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or
    step or group of integers or steps.
   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
   derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be
   taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that
   prior publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of
    the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this
   specification relates.
                                               55

CLAIMS:
1.       A method for diagnosing or aiding in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition, or assessing the risk of developing the
autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition, or prognosing or aiding in the
prognosis of the autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition, in a subject
comprising:
         a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells or a population of phagocytic cells
having a DNA content more than 2n (>2n phagocytic cells);
         b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of phagocytic cells having a DNA content of 2n (=2n phagocytic
cells) or a population of non-phagocytic cells;
         c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the presence of
said disease or condition, or the risk of developing said disease or condition, or the
prognosis of said disease or condition, in the subject.
2.        A method for assessing the efficacy of a treatment for an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition, or monitoring the progression or regression
of the autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition, or identifying a
compound capable of ameliorating or treating the autoimmune or immune-related
disease or condition, in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells or a population of >2n phagocytic
cells from the subject at a first time point;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of =2n phagocytic cells or a population of non-phagocytic cells from
the subject at the first time point;
                                            56

        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of phagocytic cells or a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject at a
second time point;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of =2n phagocytic cells or a population of non-phagocytic cells from
the subject at the second time point;
        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the efficacy of the
treatment for said disease or condition, or the progression or regression of said
disease or condition, or indicates that the compound is capable of ameliorating or
treating said disease or condition, in the subject.
3.       A method for diagnosing or aiding in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells;
        b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of non-phagocytic cells; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the presence of
said disease or condition in the subject.
4.       A method for assessing the risk of developing an autoimmune or immune
related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
                                           57

        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells;
        b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of non-phagocytic cells; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the risk of
developing said disease or condition in the subject.
5.       A method for prognosing or aiding in the prognosis of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells;
        b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of non-phagocytic cells; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the
prognosis of said disease or condition in the subject.
6.       A method for assessing the efficacy of a treatment for an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject before the
treatment;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject before the treatment;
        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
                                           58

        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment;
        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the efficacy of the
treatment for said disease or condition in the subject.
7.       A method for monitoring the progression or regression of an autoimmune
or immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject at a first time
point;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject at the first time point;
        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of phagocytic cells from the subject at a second time point;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject at the second time point;
        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers; and
                                           59

        c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the progression or
regression of said disease or condition in the subject.
8.       A method for identifying a compound capable of ameliorating or treating
an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells from the subject before
administering the compound to the subject;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject before administering
the compound to the subject;
        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of phagocytic cells from the subject after the administration of the compound;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of non-phagocytic cells from the subject after the administration of
the compound;
        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers; and
        c)identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference indicates that the compound is capable
of ameliorating or treating said disease or condition in the subject.
9.       A method for diagnosing or aiding in the diagnosis of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
                                           60

         a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of phagocytic cells having a DNA content more than
2n (>2n phagocytic cells);
         b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of phagocytic cells having a DNA content of 2n (=2n phagocytic
cells); and
         c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the presence of
said disease or condition in the subject.
10.       A method for assessing the risk of developing an autoimmune or immune
related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
         a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells;
         b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of =2n phagocytic cells; and
         c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the risk of
developing said disease or condition in the subject.
11.       A method for prognosing or aiding in the prognosis of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
         a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells;
         b) determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of =2n phagocytic cells; and
         c) identifying a difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers, wherein the difference is indicative of the prognosis
of said disease or condition in the subject.
                                            61

12.      A method for assessing the efficacy of a treatment for an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject before the
treatment;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject before the treatment;
        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the treatment;
        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the efficacy of the
treatment for said disease or condition in the subject.
13.      A method for monitoring the progression or regression of an autoimmune
or immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject at a first time
point;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject at the first time point;
                                           62

        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject at a second time point;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject at the second time point;
        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers; and
        c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference is indicative of the progression or
regression of said disease or condition in the subject.
14.      A method for identifying a compound capable of ameliorating or treating
an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition in a subject comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of one or more markers of the disease or
condition from a population of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject before
administering the compound to the subject;
        determining a second profile of at least one of the one or more markers
from a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject before administering
the compound to the subject;
        identifying a first difference between the first and second profiles of at least
one or more of said markers;
        b) determining a third profile of the one or more markers from a population
of >2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the administration of the compound;
        determining a fourth profile of at least one of the one or more markers from
a population of =2n phagocytic cells from the subject after the administration of
the compound;
                                           63

        identifying a second difference between the third and fourth profiles of at
least one or more of said markers;
        c) identifying a difference between the first difference and the second
difference, wherein the identified difference indicates that the compound is capable
of ameliorating or treating said disease or condition in the subject.
15.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8, wherein at least one of the one
or more markers is up-regulated or activated in the phagocytic cells compared to
the non-phagocytic cells.
16.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8, wherein at least one of the one
or more markers is down-regulated or inhibited in the phagocytic cells compared to
the non-phagocytic cells.
17.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14, wherein at least one of the one
or more markers is up-regulated or activated in the >2n phagocytic cells compared
to the =2n phagocytic cells.
18.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14, wherein at least one of the one
or more markers is down-regulated or inhibited in the >2n phagocytic cells
compared to the =2n phagocytic cells.
19.       The method of any one of the claims 3-14, wherein the first profile or the
second profile comprises the absence of at least one of the one or more markers of
said disease or condition.
20.       The method of any one of the claims 6-8 and 12-14, wherein the third
profile or the fourth profile comprises the absence of at least one of the one or
more markers of said disease or condition.
21.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8, further comprising lysing the
phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic cells before a).
                                          64

22.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8 and 21, further comprising
extracting the cellular contents from the phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic
cells before a).
23.       The method of claim 22, wherein the cellular contents of the phagocytic
cells comprise viable diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells,
circulating tumor cells, infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or fragments
thereof.
24.       The method of claim 22, wherein at least one of the one or more markers
of said disease or condition is present in the cellular contents of the phagocytic
cells.
25.       The method of claim 22, wherein the one or more markers of said disease
or condition are not present in the cellular contents of the non-phagocytic cells.
26.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8, wherein the phagocytic cells
express at least one of the one or more markers of said disease or condition.
27.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14, further comprising lysing the
>2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic cells before a).
28.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14 and 27, further comprising
extracting cellular contents from the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic
cells before a).
29.       The method of claim 28, wherein at least one of the one or more markers
of said disease or condition is present in the cellular contents of the >2n phagocytic
cells.
30.       The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more markers of said disease
or condition are not present in the cellular contents of the =2n phagocytic cells.
31.       The method of claim 28, wherein the cellular contents of the >2n
phagocytic cells comprise viable diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic
                                           65

diseased cells, circulating tumor cells, infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or
fragments thereof.
32.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells express at least one of the one or more markers of said disease or condition.
33.       The method of any one of the claims 3-14, further comprising comparing
the identified difference of c) to a repository of one or more known markers of said
disease or condition.
34.       The method of claim 33, wherein the repository is obtained by data
mining.
35.       The method of any one of the claims 3-14, wherein the phagocytic cells
are professional phagocytic cells, non-professional phagocytic cells, or mixtures
thereof.
36.       The method of claim 35, wherein the professional phagocytic cells are
neutrophils, macrophages, monocytes, dendritic cells, foam cells, mast cells,
eosinophils, or mixtures thereof.
37.       The method of claim 35, wherein the non-professional phagocytic cells
are epithelial cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, mesenchymal cells, or mixtures
thereof.
38.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8, wherein the non-phagocytic
cells are T cells, B cells, null cells, basophils, or mixtures thereof.
39.       The method of any one of the claims 3-8, wherein the phagocytic cells and
the non-phagocytic cells are isolated from a bodily fluid sample, tissues, or cells of
the subject.
40.       The method of claim 39, wherein the bodily fluid sample is blood, urine,
stool, saliva, lymph fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, cystic fluid, ascites,
pleural effusion, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the first trimester, fluid
obtained from a pregnant woman in the second trimester, fluid obtained from a
                                             66

pregnant woman in the third trimester, maternal blood, amniotic fluid, chorionic
villus sample, fluid from a preimplantation embryo, maternal urine, maternal
saliva, placental sample, fetal blood, lavage and cervical vaginal fluid, interstitial
fluid, or ocular fluid.
41.       The method of claim 39, wherein the cells are white blood cells.
42.       The method of any one of the claims 39-41, wherein the phagocytic cells
and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated using antibodies.
43.       The method of any one of the claims 39-41, wherein the phagocytic cells
and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated by flow cytometry, fluorescence activated
cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based centrifugation, elution, microfluidics,
magnetic separation technique, fluorescent-magnetic separation technique,
nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput microscope-based platforms, or a
combination thereof.
44.       The method of any one the claims 39-4 1, wherein the phagocytic cells are
isolated by using a product secreted by the phagocytic cells.
45.       The method of any one the claims 39-41, wherein the phagocytic cells are
isolated by using a cell surface target on the surface of the phagocytic cells.
46.       The method of claim 45, wherein the target is expressed by the phagocytic
cells.
47.       The method of claim 45, wherein the target is not expressed by the
phagocytic cells.
48.       The method of claim 45, wherein the target is a marker of said disease or
condition.
49.       The method of any one of the claims 39-41, wherein the phagocytic cells
and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated using a ligand that binds to a molecular
receptor expressed on the plasma membranes of white blood cells.
                                           67

50.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells and the =2n phagocytic cells are isolated from a bodily fluid sample, tissues,
or cells of the subject.
51.       The method of any one of the claims 9-14, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells and the =2n phagocytic cells are isolated from a population of phagocytic
cells.
52.       The method of claim 51, wherein the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n
phagocytic cells are isolated from the population of phagocytic cells by flow
cytometry, fluorescence activated cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based
centrifugation, elution, microfluidics, magnetic separation technique, fluorescent
magnetic separation technique, nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput
microscope-based platform, or a combination thereof.
53.       The method of claim 51, wherein the population of phagocytic cells is
isolated from a bodily fluid sample, tissues, or cells of the subject.
54.       The method of claim 50 or 53, wherein the bodily fluid sample is blood,
urine, stool, saliva, lymph fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, cystic fluid,
ascites, pleural effusion, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the first
trimester, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the second trimester, fluid
obtained from a pregnant woman in the third trimester, maternal blood, amniotic
fluid, chorionic villus sample, fluid from a preimplantation embryo, maternal
urine, maternal saliva, placental sample, fetal blood, lavage and cervical vaginal
fluid, interstitial fluid, or ocular fluid.
55.       The method of claim 50 or 53, wherein the cells are white blood cells.
56.       The method of any one of the claims 51 and 53-55, wherein the
population of phagocytic cells is isolated using antibodies.
57.       The method of any one of the claims 51 and 53-55, wherein the
population of phagocytic cells is isolated by flow cytometry, fluorescence activated
cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based centrifugation, elution, microfluidics,
                                            68

magnetic separation technique, fluorescent-magnetic separation technique,
nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput microscope-based platform, or a
combination thereof.
58.       The method of any one of the claims 50-52, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells are isolated by using a product secreted by the phagocytic cells.
59.       The method of any one of the claims 50-52, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells are isolated by using a cell surface target on the surface of the phagocytic
cells.
60.       The method of claim 59, wherein the target is expressed by the phagocytic
cells.
61.       The method of claim 59, wherein the target is not expressed by the
phagocytic cells.
62.       The method of claim 59, wherein the target is a marker of said disease or
condition.
63.       The method of any one of the claims 50-52, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells are isolated using a ligand that binds to a molecular receptor expressed on the
plasma membranes of white blood cells.
64.       The method of any one of the claims 3-14, wherein the one or more
markers are nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, metabolites, or
combinations thereof.
65.       The method of claim 64, wherein the nucleic acids are nucleotides,
oligonucleotides, DNAs, RNAs, or DNA-RNA hybrids.
66.       The method of claim 65, wherein the DNAs are double-stranded DNAs,
single-stranded DNAs, multi-stranded DNAs, complementary DNAs, genomic
DNAs, or non-coding DNAs.
67.       The method of claim 65, wherein the RNAs are messenger RNAs
(mRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs), small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs), ribosomal
                                           69

RNAs (rRNAs), transfer RNAs (tRNAs), small interfering RNAs (siRNAs),
heterogeneous nuclear RNAs (hnRNAs), or small hairpin RNAs (shRNAs).
68.       The method of claim 64, wherein the proteins are amino acids, peptides,
enzymes, antigens, antibodies, cytokines, lipoproteins, glycoproteins, or hormones.
69.       The method of claim 64, wherein the lipids are fatty acids, neutral fats,
phosphatides, cholesterol, cholesterol esters, triglycerides, glycolipids,
glycerolipids, glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, sterol lipids, prenol lipids,
saccharolipids, polyketides, choline glycerophospholipid, ethanolamine
glycerophospholipid, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol,
phosphatidylserine, lyso-choline glycerophospholipid, lyso-ethanolamine
glycerophospholipid, phosphatidic acid, lyso-phosphatidic acid, sphingomyelin,
galactosylceramide, glucosylceramide, free fatty acids, prostaglandins,
triacylglycerol, diacylglycerol, monoacylglycerol, acyl-CoA, acylcarnitine,
oxysterol, ceramide, cardiolipin, sphingoid base-I-phosphate, shingosine, lyso
sphingomyelin,, gangliosides, plasmalogen, sulfatide, low density lipoproteins
(LDLs), very low density lipoproteins (VLDLs), high density lipoproteins (HDLs),
sphingoid base-I-phosphates, or derivatives thereof.
70.       The method of claim 64, wherein the carbohydrates are monosaccharides,
disaccharides, polysaccharides, oligosaccharides, or derivatives thereof.
71.       The method of claim 64, wherein the metabolites are primary metabolites,
secondary metabolites, organic metabolites, inorganic metabolites, prostaglandins,
hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids, hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids, steroids, bile acids,
vitamins, or derivatives thereof.
72.       The method of any one of the claims 3-14, wherein the profile is a nucleic
acid profile, a protein profile, a lipid profile, a carbohydrate profile, a metabolite
profile, or a combination thereof.
73.       The method of claim 72, wherein the profile is determined by a qualitative
assay, a quantitative assay, or a combination thereof.
                                            70

74.       The method of claim 73, wherein the quantitative assay uses sequencing,
direct sequencing, random shotgun sequencing, Sanger dideoxy termination
sequencing, whole-genome sequencing, sequencing by hybridization,
pyrosequencing, capillary electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis, duplex sequencing,
cycle sequencing, single-base extension sequencing, solid-phase sequencing, high
throughput sequencing, massively parallel signature sequencing, emulsion PCR,
sequencing by reversible dye terminator, paired-end sequencing, near-term
sequencing, exonuclease sequencing, sequencing by ligation, short-read
sequencing, single-molecule sequencing, sequencing-by-synthesis, real-time
sequencing, reverse-terminator sequencing, nanopore sequencing, 454 sequencing,
Solexa Genome Analyzer sequencing, SOLiD@ sequencing, MS-PET sequencing,
mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight
(MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, electrospray ionization (ESI) mass
spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI
TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry,
atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier
transform mass spectrometry (FTMS), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization
Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry,
secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
analysis, quantitative PCR, real-time PCR, fluorescence assay, colorimetric assay,
chemiluminescent assay, or a combination thereof.
75.       The method of claim 72, wherein the nucleic acid profile is a genotypic
profile, a single nucleotide polymorphism profile, a gene mutation profile, a gene
copy number profile, a DNA methylation profile, a DNA acetylation profile, a
chromosome dosage profile, a gene expression profile, or a combination thereof.
76.       The method of claim 75, wherein the nucleic acid profile is determined by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis, sequencing analysis, electrophoretic
analysis, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, Northern blot
analysis, quantitative PCR, reverse-transcriptase-PCR analysis (RT-PCR), allele
specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis, comparative genomic
hybridization, heteroduplex mobility assay (HMA), single strand conformational
                                         71

polymorphism (SSCP), denaturing gradient gel electrophisis (DGGE), RNAase
mismatch analysis, mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted
laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS), surface plasmon resonance, Southern blot analysis, in situ hybridization,
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), chromogenic in situ hybridization
(CISH), immunohistochemistry (IHC), microarray, comparative genomic
hybridization, karyotyping, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification
(MLPA), Quantitative Multiplex PCR of Short Fluorescent Fragments (QMPSF),
microscopy, methylation specific PCR (MSP) assay, HpaII tiny fragment
Enrichment by Ligation-mediated PCR (HELP) assay, radioactive acetate labeling
assays, colorimetric DNA acetylation assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation
combined with microarray (ChIP-on-chip) assay, restriction landmark genomic
scanning, Methylated DNA immunoprecipitation (MeDIP), molecular break light
assay for DNA adenine methyltransferase activity, chromatographic separation,
methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme analysis, bisulfite-driven conversion of
non-methylated cytosine to uracil, methyl-binding PCR analysis, or a combination
thereof.
77.      The method of claim 75, wherein the nucleic acid profile is determined by
a sequencing technique selected from the group consisting of direct sequencing,
random shotgun sequencing, Sanger dideoxy termination sequencing, whole
genome sequencing, sequencing by hybridization, pyrosequencing, capillary
electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis, duplex sequencing, cycle sequencing, single
base extension sequencing, solid-phase sequencing, high-throughput sequencing,
massively parallel signature sequencing, emulsion PCR, sequencing by reversible
dye terminator, paired-end sequencing, near-term sequencing, exonuclease
sequencing, sequencing by ligation, short-read sequencing, single-molecule
                                          72

sequencing, sequencing-by-synthesis, real-time sequencing, reverse-terminator
sequencing, nanopore sequencing, 454 sequencing, Solexa Genome Analyzer
sequencing, SOLiD@ sequencing, MS-PET sequencing, mass spectrometry, and a
combination thereof.
78.      The method of claim 72, wherein the protein profile is a protein
expression profile, a protein activation profile, or a combination thereof.
79.      The method of claim 78, wherein the protein profile is determined by an
immunohistochemistry assay, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), in
situ hybridization, chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion
chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas
chromatography, mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted
laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microscopy, microfluidic chip-based assays, surface
plasmon resonance, sequencing, Western blotting assay, or a combination thereof.
80.      The method of claim 78, wherein the protein activation profile comprises
determining a phosphorylation state, an ubiquitination state, a myristoylation state,
a conformational state, or a combination thereof of the one or more markers.
81.      The method of claim 72, wherein the lipid profile is determined by
chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography, mass
spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser
desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
                                          73

time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microfluidic chip-based assay, detection of
fluorescence, detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof.
82.      The method of claim 72, wherein the carbohydrate profile is determined
by chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, high
performance anion exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection
(HPAEC-PAD), liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, fluorescent assay,
mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser
desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS), radioimmunoassay, microfluidic chip-based assay, detection of
fluorescence, detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof.
83.      The method of any one the claims 3-14, wherein the subject has at least
two diseases or conditions.
84.      The method of claim 83, wherein the subject has at least one autoimmune
or immune-related disease or condition.
85.      The method of claim 83, wherein the subject has at least one disease or
condition that is not an autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition.
86.      The method of any one the claims 3-14, wherein the subject is a mammal.
87.      The method of claim 86, wherein the subject is a human.
                                          74

88.        The method of any one the claims 3-14, wherein the autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of
autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition is selected from the group
consisting of inflammation, antiphospholipid syndrome, systemic lupus
erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune vasculitis, celiac disease,
autoimmune thyroiditis, post-transfusion immunization, maternal-fetal
incompatibility, transfusion reactions, immunological deficiency such IgA
deficiency, common variable immunodeficiency, drug-induced lupus, diabetes
mellitus, Type I diabetes, Type II diabetes, juvenile onset diabetes, juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, multiple sclerosis, immunodeficiency,
allergies, asthma, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, chronic
skin diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, chemotherapy-induced injury, graft
vs-host diseases, bone marrow transplant rejection, Ankylosing spondylitis, atopic
eczema, Pemphigus, Behcet's disease, chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia,
chemotherapy-induced injury, myasthenia gravis, glomerulonephritis, allergic
retinitis, systemic sclerosis, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, cutaneous
lupus erythematosus including chilblain lupus erythematosus, Sjogren's syndrome,
autoimmune nephritis, autoimmune vasculitis, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune
carditis, autoimmune encephalitis, autoimmune mediated hematological diseases,
lc-SSc (limited cutaneous form of scleroderma), dc-SSc (diffused cutaneous form
of scleroderma), autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), Grave's disease (GD), myasthenia
gravis, multiple sclerosis (MS), ankylosing spondylitis. transplant rejection,
immune aging, rheumatic/autoimmune diseases, mixed connective tissue disease,
spondyloarthropathy, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, myositis, scleroderma,
dermatomyositis, autoimmune vasculitis, mixed connective tissue disease,
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, Crohn's disease, human adjuvant disease,
osteoarthritis, juvenile chronic arthritis, a spondyloarthropathy, an idiopathic
inflammatory myopathy, systemic vasculitis, sarcoidosis, autoimmune hemolytic
anemia, autoimmune thrombocytopenia, thyroiditis, immune-mediated renal
disease, a demyelinating disease of the central or peripheral nervous system,
idiopathic demyelinating polyneuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, a chronic
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, a hepatobiliary disease, infectious or
                                            75

autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, granulomatous
hepatitis, sclerosing cholangitis, inflammatory bowel disease, gluten-sensitive
enteropathy, Whipple's disease, an autoimmune or immune-mediated skin disease,
a bullous skin disease, erythema multiforme, allergic rhinitis, atopic dermatitis,
food hypersensitivity, urticaria, an immunologic disease of the lung, eosinophilic
pneumonias, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, a
transplantation associated disease, graft rejection or graft-versus-host-disease,
psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, dermatitis, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, toxic
epidermal necrolysis, systemic scleroderma and sclerosis, responses associated
with inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, respiratory
distress syndrome, adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), meningitis,
encephalitis, uveitis, colitis, glomerulonephritis, allergic conditions, eczema,
asthma, conditions involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory
responses, atherosclerosis, autoimmune myocarditis, leukocyte adhesion
deficiency, allergic encephalomyelitis, immune responses associated with acute
and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T-lymphocytes,
tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, granulomatosis including Wegener's granulomatosis,
agranulocytosis, vasculitis (including ANCA), aplastic anemia, Diamond Blackfan
anemia, immune hemolytic anemia including autoimmune hemolytic anemia
(AIHA), pernicious anemia, pure red cell aplasia (PRCA), Factor VIII deficiency,
hemophilia A, autoimmune neutropenia, pancytopenia, leukopenia, diseases
involving leukocyte diapedesis, central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory
disorders, multiple organ injury syndrome, mysathenia gravis, antigen-antibody
complex mediated diseases, anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, anti
phospholipid antibody syndrome, allergic neuritis, Bechet disease, Castleman's
syndrome, Goodpasture's syndrome, Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome,
Reynaud's syndrome, Sjorgen's syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, pemphigoid
bullous, pemphigus, autoimmune polyendocrinopathies, Reiter's disease, stiff-man
syndrome, giant cell arteritis, immune complex nephritis, IgA nephropathy, IgM
polyneuropathies or IgM mediated neuropathy, idiopathic thrombocytopenic
purpura (ITP), thrombotic throbocytopenic purpura (TTP), autoimmune
thrombocytopenia, autoimmune disease of the testis and ovary including
                                             76

autoimmune orchitis and oophoritis, primary hypothyroidism, autoimmune
endocrine diseases including autoimmune thyroiditis, chronic thyroiditis
(Hashimoto's Thyroiditis), subacute thyroiditis, idiopathic hypothyroidism,
Addison's disease, Grave's disease, autoimmune polyglandular syndromes (or
polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes), Sheehan's syndrome, autoimmune
hepatitis, lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis (HIV), bronchiolitis obliterans (non
transplant) vs NSIP, Guillain-Barre' Syndrome, large vessel vasculitis (including
polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell (Takayasu's) arteritis), medium vessel
vasculitis (including Kawasaki's disease and polyarteritis nodosa), ankylosing
spondylitis, Berger's disease (IgA nephropathy), rapidly progressive
glomerulonephritis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac sprue (gluten enteropathy),
cryoglobulinemia, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
89.       The method of any one the claims 3-14, wherein the difference is greater
than a 1-fold difference.
90.       The method of claim 89, wherein the difference is at least 1.05-fold, 1.1
fold, 1.2-fold, 1.3-fold, 1.4-fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 2.5-fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, 5-fold, 6
fold, 7-fold, 8-fold, 9-fold, or 10-fold difference.
91.       A method for identifying one or more markers for an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
subject having said disease or condition;
        determining a second profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from
the subject having said disease or condition;
        identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
second profile;
        b) determining a third profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
control subject not having said disease or condition;
                                            77

        determining a fourth profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from the
control subject not having said disease or condition;
        identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles,
wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the
fourth profile;
        c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first set of differences
relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers of
said disease or condition.
92.       The method of claim 91, further comprising:
        d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by said
disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition;
        obtaining a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
said disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition;
        identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth profiles,
wherein the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative to the
sixth profile; and
        e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the
third set of differences.
93.       A method for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
subject having said disease or condition;
        determining a second profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
control subject not having said disease or condition;
                                            78

        identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
second profile;
        b) determining a third profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from
the subject having said disease or condition;
        determining a fourth profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from the
control subject not having said disease or condition;
        identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles,
wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the
fourth profile;
        c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first set of differences
relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers of
said disease or condition.
94.       The method of claim 93, further comprising:
        d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by said
disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition;
        obtaining a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
said disease or condition in the subject having said disease or condition;
        identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth profiles,
wherein the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative to the
sixth profile; and
        e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the
third set of differences.
95.       A method for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition comprising:
                                            79

        a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
subject having said disease or condition;
        obtaining a second profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a control
subject not having said disease or condition by data mining;
        identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
second profile;
        b) determining a third profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from
the subject having said disease or condition;
        obtaining a fourth profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from a
control subject not having said disease or condition by data mining;
        identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles,
wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the
fourth profile; and
        c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first set of differences
relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers of
said disease or condition.
96.       The method of claim 95, further comprising:
        d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by said
disease or condition by data mining;
        obtaining a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
said disease or condition by data mining;
        identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth profiles,
wherein the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative to the
sixth profile; and
                                            80

        e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the
third set of differences.
97.       A method for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition comprising:
        a) determining a first profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
subject having said disease or condition;
        determining a second profile of analytes from non-phagocytic cells from
the subject having said disease or condition;
        identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
second profile;
        b) determining a third profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by
said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
        determining a fourth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
        identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles,
wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the
fourth profile;
        c) identifying one or more analytes present in both the first set of
differences and the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers
of said disease or condition.
98.       The method of claim 97, further comprising:
        d) determining a fifth profile of analytes from phagocytic cells from a
control subject not having said disease or condition;
                                            81

         identifying a third set of differences between the first and fifth profiles,
wherein the third set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the fifth
profile;
         e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the
third set of differences.
99.       A method for identifying one or more markers of an autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition comprising:
         a) determining a first profile of analytes from >2n phagocytic cells from a
subject having said disease or condition;
         determining a second profile of analytes from =2n phagocytic cells from
the subject having said disease or condition;
         identifying a first set of differences between the first and second profiles,
wherein the first set of differences is specific to the first profile relative to the
second profile;
         b) determining a third profile of analytes from >2n phagocytic cells from a
control subject not having said disease or condition;
         determining a fourth profile of analytes from =2n phagocytic cells from the
control subject not having said disease or condition;
         identifying a second set of differences between the third and fourth profiles,
wherein the second set of differences is specific to the third profile relative to the
fourth profile; and
         c) identifying one or more analytes specific to the first set of differences
relative to the second set of differences, the identified analytes being markers of
said disease or condition.
100.       The method of claim 99, further comprising:
                                             82

        d) obtaining a fifth profile of analytes from cells or tissues affected by said
disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
        obtaining a sixth profile of analytes from cells or tissues not affected by
said disease or condition from the subject having said disease or condition;
        identifying a third set of differences between the fifth and sixth profiles,
wherein the third set of differences is specific to the fifth profile relative to the
sixth profile; and
        e) identifying at least one of the one or more markers of c) present in the
third set of differences.
101.      The method of any one of the claims 91-98, further comprising lysing the
phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic cells before a).
102.      The method of any one of the claims 91-98 and 101, further comprising
extracting the cellular contents from the phagocytic cells and the non-phagocytic
cells before a).
103.      The method of claim 102, wherein the cellular contents of the phagocytic
cells comprise viable diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic diseased cells,
circulating tumor cells, infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or fragments
thereof.
104.      The method of any one of the claims 99-100, further comprising lysing the
>2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic cells before a).
105.      The method of any one of the claims 99-100 and 104, further comprising
extracting cellular contents from the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n phagocytic
cells before a).
106.      The method of claim 105, wherein the cellular contents of the >2n
phagocytic cells comprise viable diseased cells, dead diseased cells, apoptotic
diseased cells, circulating tumor cells, infectious agents, fetal cells, trophoblasts, or
fragments thereof.
                                            83

107.      The method of any one of the claims 91-100, wherein the first profile or
the second profile comprises the absence of at least one of the one or more markers
of said disease or condition.
108.      The method of any one of the claims 9 1-100, wherein the third profile or
the fourth profile comprises the absence of at least one of the one or more markers
of said disease or condition.
109.      The method of any one of the claims 92, 94, 96, 98, and 100, wherein the
fifth profile comprises the absence of at least one of the one or more markers of
said disease or condition.
110.      The method of any one of the claims 92, 94, 96, and 100, wherein the
sixth profile comprises the absence of at least one of the one or more markers of
said disease or condition.
111.      The method of any one of the claims 91-100, wherein the phagocytic cells
are professional phagocytic cells, non-professional phagocytic cells, or mixtures
thereof.
112.      The method of claim 111, wherein the professional phagocytic cells are
neutrophils, macrophages, monocytes, dendritic cells, foam cells, mast cells,
eosinophils, or mixtures thereof.
113.      The method of claim 111, wherein the non-professional phagocytic cells
are epithelial cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, mesenchymal cells, or mixtures
thereof.
114.      The method of any one of the claims 91-98, wherein the non-phagocytic
cells are T cells, B cells, null cells, basophils, or mixtures thereof.
115.      The method of any one of the claims 91-98, wherein the phagocytic cells
and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated from a bodily fluid sample, tissues, or
cells of the subject.
                                             84

116.      The method of claim 115, wherein the bodily fluid sample is blood, urine,
stool, saliva, lymph fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, cystic fluid, ascites,
pleural effusion, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the first trimester, fluid
obtained from a pregnant woman in the second trimester, fluid obtained from a
pregnant woman in the third trimester, maternal blood, amniotic fluid, chorionic
villus sample, fluid from a preimplantation embryo, maternal urine, maternal
saliva, placental sample, fetal blood, lavage and cervical vaginal fluid, interstitial
fluid, or ocular fluid.
117.      The method of claim 115, wherein the cells are white blood cells.
118.      The method of any one of the claims 115-117, wherein the phagocytic
cells and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated using antibodies.
119.      The method of any one of the claims 115-117, wherein the phagocytic
cells and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated by flow cytometry, fluorescence
activated cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based centrifugation, elution,
microfluidics, magnetic separation technique, fluorescent-magnetic separation
technique, nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput microscope-based
platform, or a combination thereof.
120.      The method of any one the claims 115-117, wherein the phagocytic cells
are isolated by using a product secreted by the phagocytic cells.
121.      The method of any one the claims 115-117, wherein the phagocytic cells
are isolated by using a cell surface target on the surface of the phagocytic cells.
122.      The method of claim 121, wherein the target is expressed by the
phagocytic cells.
123.      The method of claim 121, wherein the target is not expressed by the
phagocytic cells.
124.      The method of claim 121, wherein the target is a marker of the
autoimmune or immune-related disease or condition.
                                             85

125.      The method of any one of the claims 115-117, wherein the phagocytic
cells and the non-phagocytic cells are isolated using a ligand that binds to a
molecular receptor expressed on the plasma membranes of white blood cell
populations.
126.      The method of any one of the claims 99-100, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells and the =2n phagocytic cells are isolated from a bodily fluid sample, tissues,
or cells of the subject.
127.      The method of any one of the claims 99-100, wherein the >2n phagocytic
cells and the =2n phagocytic cells are isolated from a population of phagocytic
cells.
128.      The method of claim 127, wherein the >2n phagocytic cells and the =2n
phagocytic cells are isolated from a population of phagocytic cells by flow
cytometry, fluorescence activated cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based
centrifugation, elution, microfluidics, magnetic separation technique, fluorescent
magnetic separation technique, nanostructure, quantum dots, high throughput
microscope-based platform, or a combination thereof.
129.      The method of any one of the claims 126-128, wherein the population of
phagocytic cells is isolated from a bodily fluid sample, tissues, or cells of the
subject.
130.      The method of claim 126 or 129, wherein the bodily fluid sample is blood,
urine, stool, saliva, lymph fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, cystic fluid,
ascites, pleural effusion, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the first
trimester, fluid obtained from a pregnant woman in the second trimester, fluid
obtained from a pregnant woman in the third trimester, maternal blood, amniotic
fluid, chorionic villus sample, fluid from a preimplantation embryo, maternal
urine, maternal saliva, placental sample, fetal blood, lavage and cervical vaginal
fluid, interstitial fluid, or ocular fluid.
131.      The method of claim 126 or 129, wherein the cells are white blood cells.
                                            86

132.      The method of any one of the claims 127 and 129-13 1, wherein the
population of phagocytic cells is isolated using antibodies.
133.      The method of any one of the claims 127 and 129-13 1, wherein the
population of phagocytic cells is isolated by flow cytometry, fluorescence activated
cell sorting, filtration, gradient-based centrifugation, elution, microfluidics,
magnetic separation techniques, fluorescent-magnetic separation, nanostructures,
quantum dots, high throughput microscope-based platform, or combinations
thereof.
134.      The method of any one of the claims 126-128, wherein the >2n
phagocytic cells are isolated by using a product secreted by the >2n phagocytic
cells.
135.      The method of any one of the claims 126-128, wherein the >2n
phagocytic cells are isolated by using a cell surface target on the surface of
phagocytic cells.
136.      The method of claim 135, wherein the target is expressed by the
phagocytic cells.
137.      The method of claim 135, wherein the target is not expressed by the
phagocytic cells.
138.      The method of claim 135, wherein the target is a marker of said disease or
condition.
139.      The method of any one of the claims 126-128, wherein the >2n
phagocytic cells are isolated using a ligand that binds to a molecular receptor
expressed on the plasma membranes of white blood cell populations.
140.      The method of any one of the claims 9 1-100, wherein the one or more
markers are nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, metabolites, or
combinations thereof.
                                            87

141.      The method of any one of the claims 91-100, wherein the analytes are
nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, metabolites, or combinations thereof.
142.      The method of claim 140 or 141, wherein the nucleic acids are
nucleotides, oligonucleotides, DNAs, RNAs, or DNA-RNA hybrids.
143.      The method of claim 142, wherein the DNAs are double-stranded DNAs,
single-stranded DNAs, multi-stranded DNAs, complementary DNAs, genomic
DNAs or non-coding DNAs.
144.      The method of claim 142, wherein the RNAs are messenger RNAs
(mRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs), small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs), ribosomal
RNAs (rRNAs), transfer RNAs (tRNAs), small interfering RNAs (siRNAs),
heterogeneous nuclear RNAs (hnRNAs), or small hairpin RNAs (shRNAs).
145.      The method of claim 140 or 141, wherein the proteins are amino acids,
peptides, enzymes, antigens, antibodies, cytokines, lipoproteins, glycoproteins, or
hormones.
146.      The method of claim 140 or 141, wherein the lipids are fatty acids, neutral
fats, phosphatides, cholesterol, cholesterol esters, triglycerides, glycolipids,
glycerolipids, glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, sterol lipids, prenol lipids,
saccharolipids, polyketides, choline glycerophospholipid, ethanolamine
glycerophospholipid, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol,
phosphatidylserine, lyso-choline glycerophospholipid, lyso-ethanolamine
glycerophospholipid, phosphatidic acid, lyso-phosphatidic acid, sphingomyelin,
galactosylceramide, glucosylceramide, free fatty acids, prostaglandins,
triacylglycerol, diacylglycerol, monoacylglycerol, acyl-CoA, acylcarnitine,
oxysterol, ceramide, cardiolipin, sphingoid base-I-phosphate, shingosine, lyso
sphingomyelin, gangliosides, plasmalogen, sulfatide, low density lipoproteins
(LDLs), very low density lipoproteins (VLDLs), high density lipoproteins (HDLs),
sphingoid base-I-phosphates or derivatives thereof.
                                           88

147.      The method of claim 140 or 141, wherein the carbohydrates are
monosaccharides, disaccharides, polysaccharides, oligosaccharides, or derivatives
tehreof.
148.      The method of claim 140 or 141, wherein the metabolites are primary
metabolites, secondary metabolites, organic metabolites, inorganic metabolites,
prostaglandins, hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids, hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids,
steroids, bile acids, vitamins, or derivatives thereof.
149.      The method of any one of the claims 9 1-100, wherein the profile is a
nucleic acid profile, a protein profile, a lipid profile, a carbohydrate profile, a
metabolite profile, or a combination thereof.
150.      The method of claim 149, wherein the profile is determined by a
qualitative assay, a quantitative assay, or a combination thereof.
151.      The method of claim 150, wherein the quantitative assay uses sequencing,
direct sequencing, random shotgun sequencing, Sanger dideoxy termination
sequencing, whole-genome sequencing, sequencing by hybridization,
pyrosequencing, capillary electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis, duplex sequencing,
cycle sequencing, single-base extension sequencing, solid-phase sequencing, high
throughput sequencing, massively parallel signature sequencing, emulsion PCR,
sequencing by reversible dye terminator, paired-end sequencing, near-term
sequencing, exonuclease sequencing, sequencing by ligation, short-read
sequencing, single-molecule sequencing, sequencing-by-synthesis, real-time
sequencing, reverse-terminator sequencing, nanopore sequencing, 454 sequencing,
Solexa Genome Analyzer sequencing, SOLiD@ sequencing, MS-PET sequencing,
mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight
(MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, electrospray ionization (ESI) mass
spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI
TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry,
atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier
transform mass spectrometry (FTMS), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization
Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry,
                                             89

secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
analysis, quantitative PCR, real-time PCR, fluorescence assay, colorimetric assay,
chemiluminescent assay, or a combination thereof.
152.      The method of claim 149, wherein the nucleic acid profile is a genotypic
profile, a single nucleotide polymorphism profile, a gene mutation profile, a gene
copy number profile, a DNA methylation profile, a DNA acetylation profile, a
chromosome dosage profile, a gene expression profile, or a combination thereof.
153.      The method of claim 152, wherein the nucleic acid profile is determined
by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis, sequencing analysis, electrophoretic
analysis, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, Northern blot
analysis, reverse-transcriptase-PCR analysis (RT-PCR), quantitative PCR,
quantitative RT-PCR, allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis,
comparative genomic hybridization, heteroduplex mobility assay (HMA), single
strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP), denaturing gradient gel electrophisis
(DGGE), RNAase mismatch analysis, mass spectrometry, mass spectrometry,
matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass
spectrometry, electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced
laser deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure
photoionization mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass
spectrometry (FTMS), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier
transform-ion cyclotron resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry,
secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), Southern blot analysis, in situ
hybridization, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), chromogenic in situ
hybridization (CISH), immunohistochemistry (IHC), microarray, comparative
genomic hybridization, karyotyping, multiplex ligation-dependent probe
amplification (MLPA), Quantitative Multiplex PCR of Short Fluorescent
Fragments (QMPSF), microscopy, methylation specific PCR (MSP) assay, HpaII
tiny fragment Enrichment by Ligation-mediated PCR (HELP) assay, radioactive
acetate labeling assays, colorimetric DNA acetylation assay, chromatin
immunoprecipitation combined with microarray (ChIP-on-chip) assay, restriction
                                          90

landmark genomic scanning, Methylated DNA immunoprecipitation (MeDIP),
molecular break light assay for DNA adenine methyltransferase activity,
chromatographic separation, methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme analysis,
surface plasmon resonance, bisulfite-driven conversion of non-methylated cytosine
to uracil, methyl-binding PCR analysis, or a combination thereof.
154.      The method of claim 152, wherein the nucleic acid profile is determined
by a sequencing technique selected from direct sequencing, random shotgun
sequencing, Sanger dideoxy termination sequencing, whole-genome sequencing,
sequencing by hybridization, pyrosequencing, capillary electrophoresis, gel
electrophoresis, duplex sequencing, cycle sequencing, single-base extension
sequencing, solid-phase sequencing, high-throughput sequencing, massively
parallel signature sequencing, emulsion PCR, sequencing by reversible dye
terminator, paired-end sequencing, near-term sequencing, exonuclease sequencing,
sequencing by ligation, short-read sequencing, single-molecule sequencing,
sequencing-by-synthesis, real-time sequencing, reverse-terminator sequencing,
nanopore sequencing, 454 sequencing, Solexa Genome Analyzer sequencing,
SOLiD@ sequencing, MS-PET sequencing, mass spectrometry, and a combination
thereof.
155.      The method of claim 149, wherein the protein profile is a protein
expression profile, a protein activation profile, or a combination thereof.
156.      The method of claim 155, wherein the protein activation profile comprises
determining a phosphorylation state, an ubiquitination state, a myristoylation state,
or a conformational state of the one or more markers.
157.      The method of claim 155, wherein the protein profile is determined by an
immunohistochemistry assay, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA),
chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography, mass
spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser
desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
                                          91

deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS), radioimmunoassays, surface plasmon resonance, microfluidic chip-based
assays, Western blotting assay, or a combination thereof.
158.     The method of claim 155, wherein the lipid profile is determined by
chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography, mass
spectrometry, matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI
TOF) mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, electrospray ionization (ESI)
mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser deorption/ionization-time of flight
(SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) mass
spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry (APPI
MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS), matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (MALDI-FT
ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS),
radioimmunoassays, microfluidic chip-based assays, detection of fluorescence,
detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof.
159.     The method of claim 155, wherein the carbohydrate profile is determined
by chromatography, liquid chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, high
performance anion exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection
(HPAEC-PAD), liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, fluorescent assay,
mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, matrix assisted laser
desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry,
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, surface-enhanced laser
deorption/ionization-time of flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, quadrupole
time of flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry, atmospheric pressure photoionization
mass spectrometry (APPI-MS), Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS),
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Fourier transform-ion cyclotron
                                          92

resonance (MALDI-FT-ICR) mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS), radioimmunoassays, microfluidic chip-based assays, detection of
fluorescence, detection of chemiluminescence, or a combination thereof.
160.       The method of any one the claims 91-100, wherein the subject is a
mammal.
161.       The method of claim 160, where in the subject is a human.
162.       The method of any one the claims 9 1-100, wherein the autoimmune or
immune-related disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of
inflammation, antiphospholipid syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus,
rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune vasculitis, celiac disease, autoimmune
thyroiditis, post-transfusion immunization, maternal-fetal incompatibility,
transfusion reactions, immunological deficiency such IgA deficiency, common
variable immunodeficiency, drug-induced lupus, diabetes mellitus, Type I diabetes,
Type II diabetes, juvenile onset diabetes, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic
arthritis, multiple sclerosis, immunodeficiency, allergies, asthma, psoriasis, atopic
dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, chronic skin diseases, amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, chemotherapy-induced injury, graft-vs-host diseases, bone marrow
transplant rejection, Ankylosing spondylitis, atopic eczema, Pemphigus, Behcet's
disease, chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia, chemotherapy-induced injury,
myasthenia gravis, glomerulonephritis, allergic retinitis, systemic sclerosis,
subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, cutaneous lupus erythematosus including
chilblain lupus erythematosus, Sjogren's syndrome, autoimmune nephritis,
autoimmune vasculitis, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune carditis, autoimmune
encephalitis, autoimmune mediated hematological diseases, lc-SSc (limited
cutaneous form of scleroderma), dc-SSc (diffused cutaneous form of scleroderma),
autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), Grave's disease (GD), myasthenia gravis, multiple
sclerosis (MS), ankylosing spondylitis. transplant rejection, immune aging,
rheumatic/autoimmune diseases, mixed connective tissue disease,
spondyloarthropathy, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, myositis, scleroderma,
dermatomyositis, autoimmune vasculitis, mixed connective tissue disease,
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, Crohn's disease, human adjuvant disease,
                                           93

osteoarthritis, juvenile chronic arthritis, a spondyloarthropathy, an idiopathic
inflammatory myopathy, systemic vasculitis, sarcoidosis, autoimmune hemolytic
anemia, autoimmune thrombocytopenia, thyroiditis, immune-mediated renal
disease, a demyelinating disease of the central or peripheral nervous system,
idiopathic demyelinating polyneuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, a chronic
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, a hepatobiliary disease, infectious or
autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, granulomatous
hepatitis, sclerosing cholangitis, inflammatory bowel disease, gluten-sensitive
enteropathy, Whipple's disease, an autoimmune or immune-mediated skin disease,
a bullous skin disease, erythema multiforme, allergic rhinitis, atopic dermatitis,
food hypersensitivity, urticaria, an immunologic disease of the lung, eosinophilic
pneumonias, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, a
transplantation associated disease, graft rejection or graft-versus-host-disease,
psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, dermatitis, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, toxic
epidermal necrolysis, systemic scleroderma and sclerosis, responses associated
with inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, respiratory
distress syndrome, adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), meningitis,
encephalitis, uveitis, colitis, glomerulonephritis, allergic conditions, eczema,
asthma, conditions involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory
responses, atherosclerosis, autoimmune myocarditis, leukocyte adhesion
deficiency, allergic encephalomyelitis, immune responses associated with acute
and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T-lymphocytes,
tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, granulomatosis including Wegener's granulomatosis,
agranulocytosis, vasculitis (including ANCA), aplastic anemia, Diamond Blackfan
anemia, immune hemolytic anemia including autoimmune hemolytic anemia
(AIHA), pernicious anemia, pure red cell aplasia (PRCA), Factor VIII deficiency,
hemophilia A, autoimmune neutropenia, pancytopenia, leukopenia, diseases
involving leukocyte diapedesis, central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory
disorders, multiple organ injury syndrome, mysathenia gravis, antigen-antibody
complex mediated diseases, anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, anti
phospholipid antibody syndrome, allergic neuritis, Bechet disease, Castleman's
syndrome, Goodpasture's syndrome, Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome,
                                             94

Reynaud's syndrome, Sjorgen's syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, pemphigoid
bullous, pemphigus, autoimmune polyendocrinopathies, Reiter's disease, stiff-man
syndrome, giant cell arteritis, immune complex nephritis, IgA nephropathy, IgM
polyneuropathies or IgM mediated neuropathy, idiopathic thrombocytopenic
purpura (ITP), thrombotic throbocytopenic purpura (TTP), autoimmune
thrombocytopenia, autoimmune disease of the testis and ovary including
autoimmune orchitis and oophoritis, primary hypothyroidism, autoimmune
endocrine diseases including autoimmune thyroiditis, chronic thyroiditis
(Hashimoto's Thyroiditis), subacute thyroiditis, idiopathic hypothyroidism,
Addison's disease, Grave's disease, autoimmune polyglandular syndromes (or
polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes), Sheehan's syndrome, autoimmune
hepatitis, lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis (HIV), bronchiolitis obliterans (non
transplant) vs NSIP, Guillain-Barre' Syndrome, large vessel vasculitis (including
polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell (Takayasu's) arteritis), medium vessel
vasculitis (including Kawasaki's disease and polyarteritis nodosa), ankylosing
spondylitis, Berger's disease (IgA nephropathy), rapidly progressive
glomerulonephritis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac sprue (gluten enteropathy),
cryoglobulinemia, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
163.      The method of any one the claims 91-100, wherein the difference is
greater than a 1-fold difference.
164.      The method of claim 163, wherein the difference is at least 1.05-fold, 1.1
fold, 1.2-fold, 1.3-fold, 1.4-fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 2.5-fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, 5-fold, 6
fold, 7-fold, 8-fold, 9-fold, or 10-fold difference.
165.      The method of claim 3 or 9, further comprising determining at least one
diagnostic parameter of said disease or condition.
166.      The method of claim 165, wherein the diagnostic parameter is determined
by physical inspection, visual inspection, biopsy, scanning, histology, radiology,
imaging, ultrasound, use of a commercial kit, genetic testing, immunological
testing, analysis of bodily fluids, or monitoring neural activity.
                                            95

167.      The method of any one of the claims 3-14, wherein the one or more
markers are selected from the group of markers of an autoimmune or immune
related disease or condition referred to in United States Patents 7,604,948,
7,670,764, 6,986,995, and 6,631,330, United States Patent Application Publication
20070141625,20090263474,20100075891,20100104579,20100105086,
20100131286,20090176217,20090202469,20020119118,20090258025,
20100137393,20100120629,20090318392,20090196927,20090023166,
20080227709,20080039402,20080026378,20070224638,20070218519,
20060210562,20050266432,20050164233,20050130245,20090130683,
20090110667, 20090054321, 20090023166, and 20080274118, and International
Patent Application Publication WO/2009/043848, WO/2010/053587,
WO/2010/046503, WO/2010/039714, WO/2009/100342, WO/2009/053537,
WO/2009/017444, WO/2008/156867, WO/2008/147938, WO/2008/129296,
WO/2008/137835, WO/2008/082519, WO/2008/064336, WO/2008/043782,
WO/2008/043725, WO/2007/047907, WO/2006/125117, WO/2006/114661,
WO/2006/020899, WO/2005/114222, WO/2005/007836, WO/2004/076639,
WO/2004/050704, and WO/2001/014881.
168.      The method of any one of the claims 3-14, wherein the one or more
markers comprise at least one or more of the markers identified by the methods of
any one the claims 9 1-100.
169.     A kit comprising a plurality of marker detection agents that detect at least
one or more of the markers identified by the methods of any one of the claims 91
100.
170.     A method of treating or preventing an autoimmune or immune-related
disease or condition in a subject comprising administering to said subject an agent
that modulates the activity or expression of at least one or more of the markers
identified by the methods of any one the claims 91-100.
                                           96

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
