    Abstract
    A method of providing a tournament game for use with a plurality of gaming machines
  5 linked via a network that are each arranged to select symbols, present the selected
    symbols on a display and award an award if a winning outcome occurs, the method
    including:
             establishing a common amount to gamble in the tournament between two or
    more players, wherein the common amounts to gamble form a tournament pot;
10           playing a common wagering game in which each player stakes a wager on
    game plays of the wagering game and is awarded a prize for any win occurring in that
    game play, wherein the wager is separate from and in addition to said common amount
    to gamble, and wherein each player is required to stake the same wager on their
    respective game plays;
15           on a tournament terminating event, awarding a prize to one or more of the
    players from the tournament pot; and
             controlling the rate at which each player in the tournament plays the common
    wagering game so as to ensure that each player has an equal number of game plays
    at the tournament termination event, wherein controlling the rate is performed by the
20  plurality of gaming machines only displaying an outcome of current game play after the
    gaming machines have communicated with each other via the network to indicate that
    each player has pressed a respective play button of the respective gaming machine or
    a time limit for pressing the respective play button has expired,
             wherein the step of playing the common wagering game includes setting a fixed
25  starting amount available to be wagered by each said player and maintaining a
    balance available to be wagered, wherein the value of the balance increases for wins
    and decreases for losses in the common wagering game; and
             wherein the tournament terminating event occurs when at least one player
    playing the wagering game has a zero balance.
30
                                                                    10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                   1
                           Tournament gaming system and method
    Related Application
            This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
  5 number <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian patent
    application number 2012268860, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian
    patent application number 2010202077. The disclosures of each of these applications
    are incorporated herein by reference.
io  Field of the Invention
            The present invention generally relates to gaming machines and methods of
    gaming. A particular embodiment of the present invention relates to gaming systems
    offering tournament play.
15  Background of the Invention
            With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come increased
    competition between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total gambling
    spend. Gaming venue operators have therefore continuously looked for new variations
    and types of games in order to attract both new and return customers to their venues.
20
            In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and systems have
    attempted to provide the sought after variety, while still developing games that comply
    with the relevant regulations in the jurisdiction of the gaming venue operator. Suppliers
    of gaming devices therefore are faced with restrictions on the types of games and
25  gaming machines that are allowable, both in terms of the prevailing regulations and in
    terms of providing a return on investment to the gaming venue operators.
            One way in which entertainment may be provided at gaming venues is to
    enable players to enter a tournament, where the players compete against the house
30  and/or each other. There is a continuing demand for gaming systems that can offer a
    tournament and for new ways of conducting tournaments.
    Summary of the Invention
    According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of providing a
35  tournament game for use with a plurality of gaming machines linked via a network that
                                                                     10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                  2
    are each arranged to select symbols, present the selected symbols on a display and
    award an award if a winning outcome occurs, the method including:
             establishing a common amount to gamble in the tournament between two or
    more players, wherein the common amounts to gamble form a tournament pot;
  5          playing a common wagering game in which each player stakes a wager on
    game plays of the wagering game and is awarded a prize for any win occurring in that
    game play, wherein the wager is separate from and in addition to said common amount
    to gamble, and wherein each player is required to stake the same wager on their
    respective game plays;
10           on a tournament terminating event, awarding a prize to one or more of the
    players from the tournament pot; and
             controlling the rate at which each player in the tournament plays the common
    wagering game so as to ensure that each player has an equal number of game plays
    at the tournament termination event, wherein controlling the rate is performed by the
15  plurality of gaming machines only displaying an outcome of current game play after the
    gaming machines have communicated with each other via the network to indicate that
    each player has pressed a respective play button of the respective gaming machine or
    a time limit for pressing the respective play button has expired,
             wherein the step of playing the common wagering game includes setting a fixed
20  starting amount available to be wagered by each said player and maintaining a
    balance available to be wagered, wherein the value of the balance increases for wins
    and decreases for losses in the common wagering game; and
             wherein the tournament terminating event occurs when at least one player
    playing the wagering game has a zero balance.
25
             In one embodiment, the common wagering game is presented differently to two
    or more of the players.
             The prize from the tournament pot may be awarded to one or more winning
30  players, wherein a said winning player is identified from the respective balances of the
    players. A winning player may be the last player playing the wagering game that has a
    non-zero balance. In one version of this embodiment, on a tournament terminating
    event, if a player has a non-zero balance available to be wagered, then that player
    retains the balance in addition to any prize from the tournament pot. A terminating
35  event may be the balance of every player except one reaching zero, in which case the
                                                                    10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                3
    player with a non-zero balance may be awarded the entire tournament pot. The fixed
    starting amount available to be wagered may have a defined mathematical relationship
    with the common amount to gamble, which may be equality.
  5          In one embodiment, the step of establishing a common amount to gamble
    includes providing each player a choice of the amount to gamble, and matching two or
    more players by their respective chosen amounts to gamble. The steps of offering a
    choice and matching may include displaying to a player one or more other players
    willing to play the tournament and those player's respective chosen amounts to
io  gamble; and allowing the player to complete the step of matching by making a
    selection from the other players displayed.
             In one embodiment, the method may include providing an option to the player
    of a said gaming machine to play the tournament, wherein if play of the tournament is
15  not selected, the player can play the wagering game without also wagering said
    amount to gamble.
             The tournament may be provided between two players only. In other
    embodiments, the tournament is provided between three or more players.
20
             In one embodiment, the common wagering game played by each player in a
    said tournament provides a substantially equal expected return for the wagers staked.
             In one embodiment, the common wagering game played by each player has
25  identical mathematics.
    According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming system
    including a plurality of gaming machines linked via a network that are each arranged to
    select symbols, present the selected symbols on a display and award an award if a
30  winning outcome occurs, the gaming system operating to:
             establish a common amount to gamble in the tournament between two or more
    players, wherein the common amounts to gamble form a tournament pot;
    play a common wagering game in which each player stakes a wager on game plays of
    the wagering game and is awarded a prize for any win occurring in that game play,
35  wherein the wager is separate from and in addition to said common amount to gamble
                                                                  10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                4
   and wherein each player is required to stake the same wager on their respective game
   plays;
            on a tournament terminating event, award a prize to one or more of the
   matched players from the tournament pot; and
 5          control the rate at which each player in the tournament plays the common
   wagering game so as to ensure that each player has an equal number of game plays
   at the tournament termination event, wherein control of the rate is performed by the
   plurality of gaming machines only displaying an outcome of current game play after the
   gaming machines have communicated with each other via the network to indicate that
10 each player has pressed a respective play button of the respective gaming machine or
   a time limit for pressing the respective play button has expired,
            wherein playing the common wagering game includes setting a fixed starting
   amount available to be wagered by each said player and maintaining a balance
   available to be wagered, wherein the value of the balance increases for wins and
15 decreases for losses in the common wagering game; and
            wherein the tournament terminating event occurs when one player is the last
   player playing the wagering game that has a non-zero balance.
            In one embodiment, the gaming system establishes a fixed starting amount
20 available to be wagered by each said player in the common wagering game and the
   gaming machines each maintain a balance available to be wagered, wherein the value
   of the balance increases for wins and decreases losses in the common wagering
   game; the gaming system awards the prize from the tournament pot to one or more
   winning players, wherein a said winning player is identified from the respective
25 balances of the players; and if on a said tournament terminating event, a player has a
   non-zero balance available to be wagered, then the gaming machine played by that
   player retains the balance in its credit meter and also pays to the credit meter any said
   prize payable to the player of that gaming machine from the tournament pot. In this
   embodiment, a terminating event may be one or more of the players reaching a
30 balance of zero and a said winning player is a player with a non-zero balance on
   occurrence of the terminating event.
            Also disclosed are instructions executable in a gaming system to implement the
   method as described in the preceding paragraphs and to such instructions when stored
35 in a storage medium readable by the game controller.
                                                                  10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                5
            Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the
   aspects described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the
   following description, given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying
 5 drawings.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
            Figure 1:       shows diagrammatically, a view of a gaming console suitable for
   implementing the present invention.
10          Figure 2:       shows a block diagram of gaming machine suitable for
   implementing the present invention.
            Figure 3:       shows a block diagram of components of the memory of the
   gaming machine represented in Figure 2.
            Figure 4:       shows diagrammatically, a network gaming system suitable for
15 implementing the present invention.
            Figure 5:       shows a flow diagram of a process performed in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention.
            Figure 6:       shows an example of a menu for a display, showing gaming
   machines waiting to enter into tournament mode.
20          Figure 7:       shows an example of a tournament screen.
   Detailed Description
            In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming console
   that is suitable to implement the present invention is generally referenced by arrow
25 114.
            The gaming console 114 includes two displays 106A, 106B on one or both of
   which is displayed representations of a game that can be played by a player and a
   bank of buttons 107A and/or a touch screen 107B to enable a player to play the game.
30 The displays 106 may be video display units, such as a cathode ray tube screen
   device, a liquid crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or
   the visible portion of an electromechanical device. The display 106B may display
   artwork, including for example, pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game. In alternative gaming consoles the display
35 106B may be omitted, optionally replaced by a static display.
                                                                  10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                  6
            A credit input including a coin input 11 OA and/or bill collector 11 OB allows a
   player to provide credit for wagering and a coin output 111 is provided for cash payouts
   from the gaming console 114. A card and/or ticket reader 108 and a printer 109 may
 5 be provided to provide player tracking, cashless game play or other gaming and non
   gaming related functions.
            Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming machine, generally referenced by
   arrow 100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming machine 100
10 may include the gaming console 114 shown in Figure 1 and accordingly like reference
   numerals have been used to describe like components in Figures 1 and 2.
            The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the
   illustrated example includes a computational device 102, which may be a
15 microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or other suitable device.
   Instructions and data to control operation of the computational device 102 are stored in
   a memory 103, which is in data communication with, or forms part of, the
   computational device 102. Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both volatile
   and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory, with such
20 memories being collectively represented by the memory 103. The instructions to cause
   the game controller 101 to implement the present invention will be stored in the
   memory 103. The instructions and data for controlling operation of the computational
   device 102 may be stored on a computer readable medium from which they are loaded
   into the gaming machine memory 103. The instructions and data may be conveyed to
25 the gaming machine by means of a data signal in a transmission channel. Examples of
   such transmission channels include network connections, the Internet or an intranet
   and wireless communication channels.
            The game controller 101 may include hardware credit meters 104 for the
30 purposes of regulatory compliance and also include an input/output (1/O) interface 105
   for communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100. The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
   their own memory for instructions and data.
                                                                     10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 7
            In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate
    with the controller are the displays 106, bank of buttons/touch screen 107, the card
    and/or ticket reader 108, the printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input 110 and a
    coin output 111. Additional devices may be included as part of the gaming machine
  5 100, or devices omitted as required for the specific implementation.
            The bank of buttons 107A and/or touch screen 107B together with one or both
    of the displays 106 may provide a user interface 115 through which the gaming
    machine 100 and player communicate. If a card/ticket reader 108 is provided, this may
10  also form part of the user interface 115.
            In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface,
    for example a network card 112. The network card 112, may for example, send status
    information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server
15  or database and receive data or commands from the central controller, server or
    database. The network card 112 may also enable communication with a central player
    account, allowing cashless gaming. One or more of the peripheral devices, for example
    the card/ticket reader 108 may be able to communicate directly with the network card
    112. The network card 112 and the I/O interface 105 may be suitably implemented as
20  a single machine communications interface.
            The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator 113,
    which generates a series of random numbers that are used by the computational
    device 102 to determine the outcomes of games played on the gaming machine 100.
25
            The game controller 101 may have distributed hardware and software
    components that communicate with each other directly or through a network or other
    communication channel. The game controller 101 may also be located in part or in its
    entirety remote from the user interface 115. Also, the computational device 102 may
30  include a plurality of devices, which may be local or remote from each other.
    Instructions and data for controlling the operation of the user interface 115 may be
    conveyed to the user interface 115 by means of a data signal in a transmission
    channel. The user interface 115 may be a computational device, for example a
    personal computer, used by a person to play a game provided from a remote game
35  controller 101.
                                                                   10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                8
            Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the
    memory 103. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds instructions and data related
    to the execution of game programs and communication functions performed by the
  5 computational controller 102. The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or
    may contain system and game related code. The mass storage device 103C may be
    used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be verified and/or
    authenticated by the computational controller 102 using protected code from the
    EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
10
            Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200 in the form of a network of devices. The
    gaming system 200 includes a network infrastructure 201, which for example may be in
    the form of an Ethernet network. Alternatively, a wireless network and/or direct
    communication channels, or a different type of network may be used to link the gaming
15  machines to a server, each other and/or other devices. Gaming consoles 114, shown
    arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming consoles 114 in Figure 4, are connected to
    the network infrastructure 201. The gaming consoles 114 may form part or all of a
    gaming machine 100. Single gaming consoles 114 and banks 203 containing three or
    more gaming consoles 114 may also be connected to the network infrastructure 201,
20  which may also include bank controllers, hubs, routers, bridges to other networks and
    other devices (not shown).
            One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The
    displays 204 may, for example, be associated with a bank 203 of gaming consoles
25  114. The displays 204 may be used to display representations associated with game
    play on the gaming consoles 114, and/or used to display other representations, for
    example promotional or informational material.
            Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game
30  server 205 may generate game outcomes for games played on one or more of the
    gaming consoles 114, a database management server 206 may manage the storage of
    game programs and associated data in a database 206A so that they are available for
    downloading to, or access by, game controllers 101, and a jackpot server 207 may
    control one or more jackpots for the gaming system 200.
35
                                                                  10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                   9
             Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming
    system 200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
    licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An
    administrator terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to manage the network
  5 201 and the devices connected to the network. The different servers depicted can be
    distinct physical servers or logically distinct server processes running on a single
    physical server.
             The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, other
10  local networks, for example a corporate network and/or a wide area network such as
    the Internet through a firewall 211.
             Figure 5 shows a process flow diagram of a process performed in accordance
    with an embodiment of the present invention. The process may be performed by the
15  gaming system 200, in which the gaming consoles 114 each include game controllers
    101 to form gaming machines 100 and the following description assumes this
    implementation. However, those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the
    process will also be able to be implemented by other gaming systems.
20           In step 1, the game controller 101 monitors the bill acceptor and/or coin input
    110 and/or information received by the card/ticket reader 108 or network card 112 for a
    deposit of credit and in response causes the hardware meters 104 to increment
    according to the denomination of the game. By way of example, a player may deposit
    $100 into the gaming machine 100.
25
             Iftournament mode has not been selected (step 2), or if the gaming console
    114 is otherwise not eligible to play the tournament, the game controller 101 then
    monitors the user interface 107 for the input of a wager and a non-tournament game is
    played in the usual manner for a gaming machine (step 3). This may involve, for
30  example, displaying symbols on the display 106 dependent on the random number(s)
    generated by the RNG 113 and paying any awards won from the game, which may be
    credits, feature games, fixed prizes, jackpots. For the purposes of the following
    description, however, it is assumed that no game is played without tournament mode
    and that therefore the player has $100 credit at the commencement of tournament
35  mode.
                                                                    10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                   10
            The bank of buttons/touch screen 107 includes a button, icon or other
   selectable mechanism to enable tournament mode to be selected. For example, the
   bank of buttons 107A may include a tournament button 107C, shown specifically only
 5 in Figure 5. When the tournament button 107C is actuated by the player, a menu pops
   up on the display 106 showing other machines forming part of, or in communication
   with the gaming system 200, which are waiting to enter into tournament mode. An
   example menu 50 is shown in Figure 6.
10          The menu 50 shows how much money each other gaming machine 100 in
   tournament mode has available for the tournament. In Figure 6, there are currently
   three other gaming machines 100 waiting to enter tournament mode, indicated by
   identifiers 51, 52 and 53, each of which have an amount to 'play' 54, 55, 56
   respectively and an amount to 'gamble' 57, 58, 59 respectively. The player may, for
15 example, select player 2 by touching the display 106 at the location of the 'Player 2'
   icon.
            Each gaming machine 100 listed in the menu 50 may be associated with a real
   player. In one embodiment, the gaming system 200 may also provide virtual players in
20 addition to real players, in which case the 'house' gambles against the player. For
   example, the game server 205 may implement a virtual player, using an associated
   RNG to compete against a real player at one of the gaming consoles 114. This may be
   of use, for example, when there are a low number of real players participating in the
   tournament or if a player has indicated a desire to enter a tournament and no other
25 player has selected to play against that player for a certain duration, for example 2
   minutes. Optionally, a player may be given a choice whether or not he or she wishes to
   play a virtual player, the choice given with a selectable menu item.
            In one embodiment, as shown in Figure 6, the tournament requires an equal
30 amount to be allocated to 'play' and 'gamble'. In other embodiments, there may be
   another fixed relationship between the play and gamble amounts. For example, the
   gamble amount could be twice the play amount where a shorter tournament is required
   for a relatively large prize, or half the play amount where a longer tournament is
   required for a relatively small prize. In still other embodiments, players may be free to
35 select the amount to be played and the amount to be gambled, using appropriate
                                                                   10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 11
    buttons forming part of the user interface 107. The freedom of choice may be
    constrained within bounds. For example, if a player is playing on a $1 machine, then
    the amount played and the amount gambled may be constrained to between $10 and
    $200. The constraints, if any, may be selected dependent on a required average time
  5 for each tournament, the denomination of the gaming machines 100 that participate in
    the tournament, the average return to player of the gaming machines 100 and the
    gambling strategy or average gambling strategy (see herein below) set for the
    tournament.
10           The player operates the bank of buttons/touch screen 107 to select a
    machine/player against which they wish to play (step 4). Once selected the gaming
    machine 100 of each player changes to a tournament screen, indicating to the player
    that game play from that point on will be in a tournament. The tournament screen
    and/or tournament game play may be controlled by the game controller 101, which
15  may receive communications regarding the progress of the tournament, including when
    an opponent has lost the tournament (see below) from the network, for example from
    the gaming floor management server 208 or game server 205 performing a tournament
    management function, or a dedicated tournament server (not shown). The gaming
    machines 100 may optionally prompt for confirmation from both players that they wish
20  to participate in the tournament before proceeding. Alternatively, the tournament may
    be run centrally, for example by the game server 205 determining the tournament
    outcomes and/or controlling a display 106 of the gaming machines 100 participating in
    the tournament. In another alternative, the tournament may be downloaded from the
    database management server to a gaming machine 100 and executed by the gaming
25  machine 100.
             The player may for example, select 'Player 2' from the menu 50. By selecting
    Player 2, the player indicates that he or she wishes to stake $100, which is in this
    example the entire amount in the credit meter. The menu 50 may prevent selection of
30  Player 3 (requiring a stake of $400) unless the player has at least $400 in the credit
    meter of the gaming machine 100 that he or she is playing, or may allow selection but
    prevent commencement of the tournament until a required amount has been
    deposited. This inability to select Player 3 may be indicated, for example, by displaying
    the entry for Player 3 in grey.
35
                                                                   10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                12
            In response to selecting Player 2, the gaming machine 100 displays a
   tournament screen (step 5), allocates $50 to a tournament meter and allocates $50 to
   a tournament pot. The credit meter is decreased by $100 and in the example will
   become zero. In alternative embodiments, the tournament meter may be omitted, with
 5 players instead playing with credit directly from the normal credit meter on the gaming
   machine 100.
           An example of a tournament screen is illustrated diagrammatically in Figure 7.
   The tournament screen 70 includes a game screen 71, in which the tournament game
10 outcomes are displayed. The tournament game outcomes displayed in the game
   screen 71 may be any required type and style of game where wagers are made on a
   per game play basis. For example, the tournament game may be a spinning reel game,
   a card game or a dice game. The tournament game may include feature games of the
   type known for these styles of games, which may offer larger tournament awards than
15 the normal tournament game.
            In one embodiment, the tournament game is identical to a game that could
   otherwise be played on the gaming machine 100. For example, the tournament game
   may be the Queen of the Nile T M game from Aristocrat Technologies Australia Pty Ltd.
20 In this embodiment, the players of the tournament are simultaneously playing the
   tournament and the Queen of the Nile TM game.
            The tournament screen 70, in this embodiment, includes a credit meter of the
   standard type, showing how much is in the credit meter on the gaming machine 100, a
25 tournament meter 73 showing the balance of the play credits a player has for a
   tournament, a win meter 74 showing the win, if any, resulting from the immediately
   preceding game play, a bet meter 75 showing the current wager on the game and a
   rank meter 76, showing the position of the player in the tournament. The tournament
   meter 73 in the example described herein above will commence with $50 worth of
30 credit, being the amount available for the 'Play' part of the tournament. Although not
   shown in Figure 7, the tournament screen 70 may also display the 'Gamble' amount, in
   the example $50 or an equivalent value in credit.
            Tournament play then begins (step 6). Each gaming machine 100 in the
35 tournament places the same wager in each game play as each other gaming machine
                                                                   10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 13
   100, but uses different random numbers from their respective RNG 113 to determine
   the outcome of their respective games. The mathematics of the games provided on the
   gaming machines are the same or at least substantially the same, so as to maintain
   fairness between gaming machines, but the game presentation, for example the game
 5 theme, may differ between the gaming machines.
           The wager for each game play of a tournament may be set by the gaming
   system 200. For example, in a spinning reel game, the tournament may require each
   game play to constitute 5 pay lines at $1 per line. Optionally the wager may vary
10 throughout the tournament, for example either according to a fixed pattern or a random
   selection process, which may be constrained not to exceed the amount left for the
   game of any player.
           As the tournament progresses, players win and lose credits, affecting the
15 balance in the tournament meter 73. In one embodiment, the tournament continues
   until one of the players reaches a balance of $0 in the tournament meter (step 7). If this
   occurs, the other player is declared the winner and is paid the tournament pot (of $100
   in the example). The tournament meter of that player will therefore have whatever
   value was in it when the other player's balance reached $0 plus $100 of credit. The
20 value of the tournament meter is then transferred to the credit meter 72 on the gaming
   machine 100 the player is playing (step 8), which the player may cash out and retain,
   or use for other activities, like entering another tournament or playing a non
   tournament game on the gaming machine 100.
25         The gaming system 200 may control the rate at which each player in the
   tournament plays, so as to ensure that each player has played an equal number of
   game plays. For example, the gaming machines 100 may communicate with each
   other via the network when a player has pressed the play button and only display the
   outcome of the current game play after the play button on each machine has been
30 depressed. For a spinning reel game, the reels may commence spinning immediately,
   but only stop after the other player has depressed the play button. The gaming
   machines may minimise delay by providing, for example, a maximum of 10 seconds to
   push the play button, else the game play commences automatically.
                                                                  10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 14
             Alternatively, the players may be free to play at different rates. In this
    embodiment, when a player who has played at a faster play rate reaches a balance of
    zero or otherwise reaches the terminating game event first, that player will have to wait
    until the other player reaches the same number of game plays before he or she knows
  5 whether they have won the tournament. If the gaming system 200 includes player
    tracking and the players have identified themselves to the gaming system 200, then
    the earlier finishing player may leave, with any win from the tournament being credited
    to the player's account. Using player tracking, a tournament between two players may
    be allowed to occur over a plurality of gaming sessions, that may be separated in time.
10  Some limits may be placed on the tournament duration, for example to specify that the
    tournament must be completed within 7 days of commencement, or else the
    tournament will automatically end, with the winner determined or the tournament pot
    distributed. Examples of tournament pot distribution are provided herein in relation to a
    player selecting to cash out part way through a tournament.
15
             The tournament may end on other terminating events. For example, the
    tournament may have a maximum number of game plays, which may be a fixed
    number, for example 200 or may be variable, to be set by the players or by the gaming
    system 200. Where the gaming system 200 sets the number of game plays, this may
20  be determined based on the amount staked. For example a tournament where each
    player contributes $100 to the pot and $100 to the tournament meter and in which each
    wager or the average wager is $5, may have a maximum duration of 500 games,
    whereas a $40 tournament may have a maximum duration of 200 games. The
    maximum duration may be set in relation to the expected return to player of the gaming
25  machines, for example so that a certain percentage of tournaments, for example 90%,
    finish with one player reaching zero credits before the maximum number of games is
    reached.
             The players in the tournament may be prevented from cashing out until the end
30  of the tournament, or if the player does cash out then he or she may forfeit the
    tournament, with the tournament pot being paid to the other player.
             Alternatively, the players may be given the option to cash out or otherwise
    cease the tournament without forfeiting his or her entire contribution to the tournament
35  pot. In one embodiment a penalty may be imposed that depends on how much the
                                                                     10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                  15
    tournament has progressed. In one embodiment, if the tournament was to last 50
    game plays and the player cashes out after 10 game plays, then the player may forfeit
    20% of his or her contribution to the tournament pot to the other player. In another
    embodiment, the gaming system 200 may calculate the probability of the player losing
  5 the tournament from the current position, with the player forfeiting a percentage of his
    or her contribution in line with the probability of losing. For example, if the player was
    ahead in the tournament, with a 70% chance of winning, the player may forfeit 30% of
    his or her contribution to the other player.
io          Referring back to Figure 6, in one embodiment, the player may not wish to play
    a tournament at the level of any of the existing players. The player may then select the
    'Let my opponent select me' icon 60 in the menu 50. This corresponds to the 'NO'
    decision from step 4 in Figure 5. If in step 4 the player does not select another player
    to play against, the player may be given an option to enter an amount that the player
15  wishes to stake in the tournament (step 9). In various embodiments, the player may be
    free to enter any amount, may be constrained to within a range, or may have to select
    from a specific number of currently unselected amounts. The player's selection may be
    checked against existing players in case the player missed a match (step 10) and if
    there is no match, the entered amount is stored (step 11), to enable display in the
20  menu 50 of other gaming machines, awaiting another player who selects to play at the
    entered amount (step 12).
            The gaming system 200 may also provide the player a choice as to the number
    of players they wish to play with in the tournament. This may, for example, be provided
25  as a preliminary selection, so that the menu 50 displayed differs depending on the
    number of players selected. In other words, there may be one menu of players for two
    player tournaments, another menu for three player tournaments and so on if
    tournaments for other numbers of players are offered.
30          The gaming machine 100 may time how long a player views the menu 50. In
    one embodiment, the player may be given a set period, for example 30 seconds, to
    select a player, following which the menu 50 may be removed and the player either
    given the option to play a non-tournament game, or redisplay the menu 50 to make a
    selection.
35
                                                                      10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                  16
            In another embodiment, the menu 50 may include a button that enables the
   player to proceed directly to playing a virtual opponent as described herein. The virtual
   opponents may be able to play at any amount, may be constrained within a range, or
   may have fixed tournament levels for selection by the player.
 5
            While in the foregoing description the gaming machines 100 play the
   tournament at the option of a player and otherwise allow non-tournament game play, it
   is also possible to make a gaming machine 100 dedicated to tournament play.
   Dedicated gaming machines 100 must enter the tournament if played.
10
            Also, for simplicity, the foregoing description has focussed on a two-player
   tournament. However, three or more players may participate in the tournament, which
   creates a larger tournament pot. The tournament pot need not be awarded entirely to
   the winner and may be partially distributed to other players. For example, in a two
15 player tournament, the winner may receive 80% of the tournament pot and the loser
   20%. In a three player tournament, the pot may be split between the first and second
   place getters, or between all three.
            The tournament may also, or instead, utilise funds other than money/credits.
20  For example, loyalty points or other bonus points may be used to enter and play in a
   tournament. The prize from the tournament may be bonus points or may be credits.
            While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the
   preferred embodiments of the present invention as presently contemplated, which
25 utilise gaming machines of the type found in casinos, those skilled in the relevant arts
   will appreciate that the present invention also may have application to internet gaming
   and/or have application to gaming over a telecommunications network, where
   handsets are used to display game outcomes and receive player inputs.
30          Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having
   known equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if
   individually set forth.
                                                                    10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                               17
          Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions
  to the embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing from the
  scope of the present invention.
5         It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this
  specification extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual
  features mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different
  combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
                                                                  10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 18
    Claims:
    1.       A method of providing a tournament game for use with a plurality of gaming
    machines linked via a network that are each arranged to select symbols, present the
    selected symbols on a display and award an award if a winning outcome occurs, the
  5 method including:
             establishing a common amount to gamble in the tournament between two or
    more players, wherein the common amounts to gamble form a tournament pot;
             playing a common wagering game in which each player stakes a wager on
    game plays of the wagering game and is awarded a prize for any win occurring in that
10  game play, wherein the wager is separate from and in addition to said common amount
    to gamble, and wherein each player is required to stake the same wager on their
    respective game plays;
             on a tournament terminating event, awarding a prize to one or more of the
    players from the tournament pot; and
15           controlling the rate at which each player in the tournament plays the common
    wagering game so as to ensure that each player has an equal number of game plays
    at the tournament termination event, wherein controlling the rate is performed by the
    plurality of gaming machines only displaying an outcome of current game play after the
    gaming machines have communicated with each other via the network to indicate that
20  each player has pressed a respective play button of the respective gaming machine or
    a time limit for pressing the respective play button has expired,
             wherein the step of playing the common wagering game includes setting a fixed
    starting amount available to be wagered by each said player and maintaining a
    balance available to be wagered, wherein the value of the balance increases for wins
25  and decreases for losses in the common wagering game; and
             wherein the tournament terminating event occurs when at least one player
    playing the wagering game has a zero balance.
    2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the common wagering game is presented
30  differently to two or more of the players.
    3.       The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the prize from the tournament pot is
    awarded to one or more winning players, wherein a said winning player is identified
    from the respective balances of the players.
35
                                                                    10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 19
    4.      The method of claim 3, wherein a said winning player is the last player playing
    the wagering game that has a non-zero balance.
    5.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein on a said tournament
  5 terminating event, if a player has a non-zero balance available to be wagered, then
    that player retains the balance in addition to any said prize from the tournament pot.
    6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the player with a non
    zero balance is awarded the entire tournament pot.
10
    7.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the fixed starting
    amount available to be wagered has a defined mathematical relationship with the
    common amount to gamble.
15  8.      The method of claim 7, wherein the fixed starting amount available to be
    wagered in the tournament game is set to equal the common amount to gamble.
    9.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of
    establishing a common amount to gamble includes providing each player a choice of
20  the amount to gamble, and matching two or more players by their respective chosen
    amounts to gamble.
    10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the steps of offering a choice and matching
    include displaying to a player one or more other players willing to play the tournament
25  and those player's respective chosen amounts to gamble; and allowing the player to
    complete the step of matching by making a selection from the other players displayed.
    11.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, including providing an option to
    the player of a said gaming machine to play the tournament, wherein if play of the
30  tournament is not selected, the player can play the wagering game without also
    wagering said amount to gamble.
    12.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tournament is
    provided to three or more players.
35
                                                                    10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                                 20
    13.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the common wagering
    game played by each player in a said tournament provides a substantially equal
    expected return for the wagers staked.
  5 14.      A gaming system including a plurality of gaming machines linked via a network
    that are each arranged to select symbols, present the selected symbols on a display
    and award an award if a winning outcome occurs, the gaming system operating to:
             establish a common amount to gamble in the tournament between two or more
    players, wherein the common amounts to gamble form a tournament pot;
10  play a common wagering game in which each player stakes a wager on game plays of
    the wagering game and is awarded a prize for any win occurring in that game play,
    wherein the wager is separate from and in addition to said common amount to gamble
    and wherein each player is required to stake the same wager on their respective game
    plays;
15           on a tournament terminating event, award a prize to one or more of the
    matched players from the tournament pot; and
             control the rate at which each player in the tournament plays the common
    wagering game so as to ensure that each player has an equal number of game plays
    at the tournament termination event, wherein control of the rate is performed by the
20  plurality of gaming machines only displaying an outcome of current game play after the
    gaming machines have communicated with each other via the network to indicate that
    each player has pressed a respective play button of the respective gaming machine or
    a time limit for pressing the respective play button has expired,
             wherein playing the common wagering game includes setting a fixed starting
25  amount available to be wagered by each said player and maintaining a balance
    available to be wagered, wherein the value of the balance increases for wins and
    decreases for losses in the common wagering game; and
             wherein the tournament terminating event occurs when one player is the last
    player playing the wagering game that has a non-zero balance.
30
    15.      The gaming system of claim 14, wherein:
             the gaming system awards the prize from the tournament pot to one or more
    winning players, wherein a said winning player is identified from the respective
    balances of the players; and
                                                                   10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

                                              21
          if on a said tournament terminating event, a player has a non-zero balance
  available to be wagered, then the gaming machine played by that player retains the
  balance in its credit meter and also pays to the credit meter any said prize payable to
  the player of that gaming machine from the tournament pot.
5
                                                                10326862_1 (GHMatters) P88026.AU.3 31/05/18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>

