                                         ABSTRACT
           A surgical simulation system is provided. The system includes at least
 5 one simulated body organ placed upon the base of an organ tray and at least
   one covering layer placed over the simulated body organ. At least one of the
   simulated body organ and covering layer includes electro-conductive gel that is
   operably severable under application of electrical current to simulate
   electrosurgery in a training environment. The training environment comprises a
10 top cover connected to and spaced apart from a base to define an internal
   cavity that is partially obstructed from direct observation by a practitioner. The
   tray, simulated body organs and covering layer are placed inside the internal
   cavity for the practice of laparoscopic surgical procedures.
                                                             10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

     ADVANCED SURGICAL SIMULATION CONSTRUCTIONS AND METHODS
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          [0001]          This application claims priority to and benefit of U.S.
   Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/771,316 filed on March 1, 2013
 5 entitled "Advanced surgical simulation constructions and methods" which is
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          [0001a]         The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent
   Application No. 2014224004, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
10                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          [0002]          This application is generally related to surgical training
   tools, and in particular, to anatomical models simulating organs or tissue for
   teaching and practicing various surgical techniques and procedures.
15                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           [0003]          Medical students as well as experienced doctors learning
   new surgical techniques must undergo extensive training before they are
   qualified to perform surgery on human patients. The training must teach proper
   techniques employing various medical devices for cutting, penetrating,
20 clamping, grasping, stapling and suturing a variety of tissue types. The range of
   possibilities that a trainee may encounter is great. For example, different organs
   and patient anatomies and diseases are presented. The thickness and
   consistency of the various tissue layers will also vary from one part of the body
   to the next and from one patient to another. Accordingly, the skills required of
25 the techniques and instruments will also vary. Furthermore, the trainee must
   practice techniques in readily accessible open surgical locations and in
   locations accessed laparoscopically.
           [0004]          Numerous teaching aids, trainers, simulators and model
   organs are available for one or more aspects of surgical training. However,
30 there is a need for model organs or simulated tissue elements that are likely to
   be encountered in endoscopic, laparoscopic, transanal, minimally invasive or
   other
                                                               10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU. 1 15/06/18

surgical procedures that include the removal of tumors or other tissue structures.
For example, there is a need for realistic model organs for the repeatable
practice of removing a tumor or other undesired tissue followed by the closure of
the target area by suturing or stapling as part of the same surgical procedure.
       [0005]      In view of the above, it is an object of this invention to provide a
surgical training device that realistically simulates such particular circumstances
encountered during surgery. The medical training and simulation systems and
devices of the present invention provide a user with visual, tactile and technical
properties that emulate the situations extant in live surgical procedures.
Emulation is an effort to equal or surpass real surgical conditions or effects in a
surgical simulation.
       [0006]      In order to simplify training and minimize the use of cadavers in
surgical training and in practice, the present invention contemplates the use of
synthetic materials that are compounded, configured and combined to emulate
the properties, responses and characteristics of human or animal tissue under
surgical conditions and in response to the activities of surgical instruments. Such
conditions and activities may include incision, penetration, dissection, occlusion,
anastomosis, approximation, ablation, and the like.
        [0007]     Many surgical procedures involve the use of energy-based
surgical instruments such as electrosurgical blades, probes, scissors, graspers,
dissectors and the like. Electrosurgery is generally considered the application of
high voltage, high frequency electrical energy to tissue for the purpose of cutting
or destroying. Electrocautery is a type of electrosurgery in which an electrical
current generates resistance heating in the instrument, which is sufficiently high
to apply to tissue for the purpose of cutting or destroying tissue. Additionally,
many procedures make use of energy devices based on high frequency sound.
These instruments provide a surgeon with the convenience of nearly effortless
cutting and dissection and nearly instant thermal hemostasis. Such instruments
have become a standard within the surgical community and are used regularly.
        [0008]     It becomes readily apparent that any fake organs or organ
simulation modules or training modules must include the ability to train in the use
                                           -2-

of energy-based surgical instruments. Many of the existing training or simulation
modules require the use of harvested animal tissue, synthetic materials that must
be wetted or infused with saline solution or materials having embedded metallic
particles so that they are electrically conductive and suitable for energy-based
surgical technique training. The most preferred synthetic materials such as
silicone rubber, latex, vinyl, polyester, polyurethane and the like do not respond
to energy-based surgical instruments and devices in a way that satisfies the need
to train users to use the instruments in an actual surgical procedure. Therefore,
one aspect of the present invention is to provide a combination of synthetic
materials, some that have dielectric characteristics, and some that are electrically
conductive and yet mimic the physical properties of natural tissue and action of
energy-based surgical instruments and devices. In addition, the present
invention provides a method for constructing various body parts, conduits,
organs, cysts, tumors and the like that provides life-like synthetic samples.
                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        [0009]     According to one aspect of the invention a surgical simulation
system is provided. The surgical simulation system includes a tray having a
base with a perimeter and one or more anatomical receptacle portion formed by
at least one upstanding wall configured to substantially cooperate and conform in
size and shape with one or more simulated body organ located within the one or
more receptacle portion. The system includes one or more simulated body organ
placed upon the base within the one or more receptacle portion. At least one
covering layer is placed over the one or more simulated body organ. The
covering layer is attached to the one or more simulated body organ in at least
one location. The least one of the one or more simulated body organ and
covering layer includes electro-conductive gel operably severable under
application of electrical current to simulate electrosurgery in a training
environment.
        [0010]     According to another aspect of the invention, a surgical
simulation system for the practice of electrosurgical activity is provided. The
                                          -3-

surgical simulation system includes a simulated tissue structure that includes an
inner layer that is adjacent to and in contact with an outer layer. The inner layer
comprises a foam material and the outer layer comprises an elastomeric
hydrogel. The inner layer defines an interior cavity and both the inner layer and
the outer layer define a shape of at least a portion of a uterus. The surgical
simulation system also includes a simulated pathology located adjacent to or
embedded in the inner layer. The simulated pathology is removable from the
simulated tissue structure. The elastomeric hydrogel is electo-conductive such
that it is operably severable under application of electrical current to simulate
electrosurgery in a training environment.
         [0011]    According to another aspect of the invention, a method for
surgical simulation is provided. The method includes the step of providing an
organ tray having a base with one or more simulated body organ on it. A
covering layer is placed over the one or more simulated body organ. The
covering layer includes a first planar layer of non-conductive material and a
second planar layer of electro-conductive gel. The covering layer is placed over
the one or more simulated body organ such that the second layer is adjacent to
the one or more simulated body organ. The organ tray is placed into an internal
cavity of a surgical training device such that the organ tray is at least partially
obstructed from direct visual observation by a practitioner. The surgical training
device includes a top cover spaced apart from the base. The internal cavity is
defined between the top cover and base. The surgical training device includes
an aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region in the top cover. The method
further includes the step of inserting a scope configured to capture video of the
internal cavity through the aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region and into
the internal cavity of the training device. At least one instrument is inserted
through the aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region into the internal cavity
of the training device. The method includes the step of separating the first layer
from the second layer with the at least one instrument.
         [0012]    According to one aspect of the invention, a method of making a
simulated tumor is provided. The tumor is made by mixing uncured silicone
                                          -4-

rubber with untreated fumed silicon dioxide. The mixture is then shaped and
cured to form a simulated tumor.
        [0013]    According to one aspect of the invention, a simulated tissue
structure for surgical training is provided. The structure includes an organ tray,
simulated organs placed on the tray and a covering layer. The covering layer
includes a semi-transparent sheet of silicone rubber.
        [0014]    According to one aspect of the invention, a simulated tissue
structure for surgical training is provided. The structure includes an organ tray,
simulated organs placed on the tray and a covering layer. The covering layer
includes a semi-transparent sheet of silicone rubber and a semi-transparent
sheet of hydrogel material.
        [0015]    According to one aspect of the invention, a method for forming a
covering layer for a tray containing simulated tissue includes the step of mixing
electro-conductive material such as platinum or tin into liquid silicone. The
mixture is spread onto a first layer of polyethylene foam. A second layer of
polyethylene foam is placed over the silicone layer. A textured roller or stamping
device is moved over the surface of the second layer of foam to calendar the
silicone material between the foam layers of foam. The silicone layer is removed
from between the foam layers.
        [0016]    According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated organ
model of a uterus is provided. The model includes an outer shell of soft silicone
and an inner layer of foam with simulated tumors located between the outer shell
and inner layer.
        [0017]    According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated organ
model of a uterus is provided. The model includes an outer shell of soft silicone
and an inner layer of foam with simulated tumors located inside the inner foam
layer.
        [0018]    According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated organ
model of a uterus is provided. The model includes fallopian tubes of silicone
containing electro-conductive material. The fallopian tube includes a lumen
extending between a first end and a second end and a bulbous portion near the
                                          -5-

second end that transitions to a funnel shape at the second end having a plurality
of axial cuts in the funnel portion. At least a portion of the lumen includes a soft
fibrous material.
        [0019]      According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated organ
model of a uterus is provided. The model includes fallopian tubes of silicone
containing electro-conductive material. The fallopian tube includes a lumen
extending between a first end and a second end and a bulbous portion near the
second end that transitions to a funnel shaped at the second end having a
plurality of axial cuts in the funnel portion. At least a portion of the lumen
includes a soft fibrous material and a simulated ectopic pregnancy is placed
inside the bulbous portion. The simulated ectopic pregnancy is made of silicone
rubber and untreated fumed silicon dioxide.
        [0020]      According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated organ
model of a stomach is provided. The model includes a hollow stomach-shaped
bladder having a proximal opening and a distal opening. The model includes a
predetermined pathway for practicing resection of at least a portion of the
stomach along the predetermined pathway. The predetermined pathway is
defined by a portion of two opposing inner surfaces of the stomach model being
joined together.
        [0021]      According to another aspect of the invention, a tray for receiving
model organs is provided. The tray includes a bottom surface and at least one
receptacle portion for receiving at least one organ. The at least one receptacle
portion is formed by upstanding walls having a height and shape that
substantially conforms to the height, shape and size of the organ to be placed
into the receptacle portion.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0022]      FIG. 1 illustrates a side view of a surgical training device with a
model organ according to the present invention.
        [0023]      FIG. 2A illustrates a side cross-sectional view of a simulated
tissue structure according to the present invention.
                                            -6-

        [0024]     FIG. 2B illustrates a side cross-sectional view of a simulated
tissue structure with tumor excised according to the present invention.
        [0025]     FIG. 2C illustrates a side cross-sectional view of a simulated
tissue structure with an open suture according to the present invention.
        [0026]     FIG. 2D illustrates a side cross-sectional view of a simulated
tissue structure with a closed suture according to the present invention.
        [0027]     FIG. 3A illustrates a top view of a defect layer having a circular
shaped defect according to the present invention.
        [0028]     FIG. 3B illustrates a top view of a defect layer having an
elongated defect according to the present invention.
        [0029]     FIG. 3C illustrates a top view of a defect layer having an
amorphous defect according to the present invention.
        [0030]     FIG. 3D illustrates a top view of a defect layer having a two
 piece defect according to the present invention.
        [0031]     FIG. 3E illustrates a top view of a multi-part defect layer
 according to the present invention.
        [0032]     FIG. 3F illustrates a top view of a defect layer having multiple
defects according to the present invention.
        [0033]     FIG. 4 illustrates a top view of a simulated tissue structure
 according to the present invention.
        [0034]     FIG. 5 illustrates a side cross-sectional view of a simulated
tissue structure according to the present invention.
        [0035]     FIG. 6A illustrates a perspective view of a modular tissue
 structure and support according to the present invention.
        [0036]     FIG. 6B illustrates a perspective view of a modular tissue
 structure and support according to the present invention.
        [0037]     FIG. 7 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a simulated tissue
 structure configured to mimic a human uterus according to the present invention.
        [0038]     FIG. 8 illustrates a top view of a modular tissue structure
 according to the present invention.
                                           -7-

        [0039]     FIG. 9 illustrates a side view of a modular tissue structure
according to the present invention.
        [0040]     FIG. 10A illustrates a perspective view of a simulated tissue
structure according to the present invention.
        [0041]     FIG. 10B illustrates a perspective view of a simulated tissue
structure according to the present invention.
        [0042]     FIG. 11A illustrates a perspective view of a simulated tissue
structure according to the present invention.
        [0043]     FIG. 11 B illustrates a perspective view of a simulated tissue
structure according to the present invention.
        [0044]     FIG. 12 illustrates a perspective view of a suture needle and a
simulated tissue structure according to the present invention.
        [0045]     FIG. 13 illustrates a schematic of a model of female uterine
anatomy with tumor placement according to the present invention.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        [0046]    A surgical training device 10 that is configured to mimic the
torso of a patient such as the abdominal region is shown in FIG. 1. The surgical
training device 10 provides a simulated body cavity 18 substantially obscured
from the user for receiving model organs or simulated or live tissue 20. The body
cavity 18 is accessed via a tissue simulation region 19 that is penetrated by the
user employing devices to practice surgical techniques on the tissue or organ 20
found located in the body cavity 18. Although the body cavity 18 is shown to be
accessible through a tissue simulation region 19, a hand-assisted access device
or single-site port device may be alternatively employed to access the body
cavity 18 as described in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/248,449 entitled
"Portable Laparoscopic Trainer" filed on September 29, 2011 and incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety. The surgical training device 10 is particularly
well suited for practicing laparoscopic or other minimally invasive surgical
procedures.
                                           - 8-

        [0047]     The surgical training device 10 includes a base 12 and a top
cover 14 connected to and spaced apart from the base 12 to define an internal
body cavity 18 between the top cover 14 and the base 12. At least one leg 16
interconnects and spaces apart the top cover 14 and base 12. A model organ or
simulated tissue 20 is disposed within the body cavity 18. The model organ 20
shown in FIG. 1 is a partial colon or intestine that is shown suspended from the
top cover 14 by tethers 22 and connected to at least one leg 24. The at least one
leg 24 has an aperture (not shown) facing the internal body cavity 18. The model
colon 20 includes a tube 26 having a proximal end and a distal end. The
proximal end of the tube 26 is interconnected with the aperture of the leg 24 such
that the aperture provides an access port to the lumen of the tube 26. The
access port and aperture is shown to be closed off in FIG. 1 with an access
device 28 which in combination with a sealed distal end of the tube 26 provides a
model organ 20 that is adapted for insufflation with fluid deliverable via an
insufflation port 30. An optional insert 32 made of soft material such as silicone
creates a realistic interface for the access port. The distal end of the tube 26
extends into the body cavity 18 and is suspended within the body cavity 18. The
interior of the tube 26 of the simulated organ 20 is accessible via the access port
of leg 24 or via the tissue simulation region 19 or instrument insertion ports 34.
An endoscopic camera inserted into the body cavity 18 or into the organ 20 via
the access port generates a live image for display on a fold out video screen 36
shown in the closed position in FIG. 1. An endoscope is a visualization device
that is used to view a hollow structure. Although the simulated organ 20 of FIG.
1 is ideal for practicing procedures related to transanal minimally invasive
surgery, any simulated organ or tissue portion may be employed. One particular
aspect of the organ 20 is at least one tumor or defect 38 is provided and
connected to the organ. As shown in FIG. 1, the tumor 38 is connected to the
wall of the organ tube 26.
        [0048]     Turning now to FIG. 2A there is shown a partial side cross
sectional view of a portion of a simulated organ 20 that includes the tumor 38.
The simulated organ or tissue 20 includes a base layer or organ wall 40. The
                                         -9-

organ wall 40 is made from a material configured to mimic real live tissue such as
silicone or other polymer and is dyed appropriately. One or more base layers 40
of varying thicknesses and colorations may be employed to comprise the entirety
of the wall 40. In one variation, the organ wall 40 is rigid and made of polymeric
material. Above the base layer 40 is a second layer or defect layer 42. The
defect layer 42 is the same size or smaller than the base layer 40 forming a
raised platform for the tumor 38. The defect layer 42 is connected to the base
layer 40 by adhesive or other means known to one having ordinary skill in the art
including being integrally formed with the base layer 40 as a single unit. The
defect layer 42 is made of silicone and in one variation of the same color as the
base layer 40 such that the defect layer 42 blends into the background of the
base layer 40. The defect layer 42 includes at least one defect or gap 44. In one
variation, the defect 44 is a pre-fabricated breach in the defect layer 42 that
mimics an incision, gap or other void in real tissue resulting from a tear, cut,
removal or other surgical procedure that requires surgical attention by way of
suturing, stapling or the like to close the defect. Such a situation arises most
often in the removal of a tumor 38 where surrounding tissue is also removed
together with the tumor 38 to preventatively ensure the entirety of the tumor is
excised leaving behind a remnant defect in the tissue. The defect 44 comprises
two opposed sides or surfaces defining a gap therebetween. Although the
adjacent sides or surfaces are shown to be vertical with respect to the base layer
40, the invention is not so limited and the juxtaposed surfaces or sides can have
any shape and, for example, be curved. The defect 44 can be any shape as will
be discussed with respect to FIGs. 3A-3F.
        [0049]     Turning now to FIG. 3A, there is shown a top view of a defect
layer 42 having a circular defect 44. A defect layer 42 with an elongated, oblong
or elliptically shaped defect 44 is shown in the FIG. 3B. The defect 44 can be
amorphic or any shape as shown in FIG. 3C. The defect layer 42 may be multi
part as shown in FIG. 3D wherein the defect layer 42 includes two or more
adjacent defect layer pieces 42a, 42b juxtaposed to create at least one defect 44
therebetween. Another multi-part defect layer 42 is shown in FIG. 3E where a
                                          - 1U -

plurality of adjacent defect layer pieces 42a, 42b and 42c form one or more
defects 44 therebetween. Of course, a defect layer 42 may include multiple
defects 44a, 44b and 44c as shown in FIG. 3F. The defects 44 may all be the
same or have different shapes as shown in FIG. 3F. The shape, thickness and
size of the defect allow the surgeon trainee to practice suturing across defects of
varying difficulty. In one variation, the defect layer 42 is not of equal thickness.
 Instead, the thickness of the defect layer 42 varies at the defect 44 location to
increase the difficulty of suturing or closing the defect.
        [0050]     Referring back to FIG. 2A, a tumor 38 is located above the
defect layer 42. The tumor 38 is preferably a different color from the base layer
40 or defect layer 42 or both such that it is readily identifiable by the trainee.
Preferably, the tumor 38 is made of silicone or other polymer material and is red,
black, blue or dark brown in color. In general, the tumor 38 is of a darker color
than the base or defect layers 40, 42 or otherwise in contrast therewith when
viewed through a scope. In one variation, the tumor 38 is connected to the
defect layer 42 by adhesive or other means known to one of ordinary skill in the
art. In another variation, the tumor 38 is not connected or attached to the defect
layer 42 but is removably located thereon.
        [0051]     Still referencing FIG. 2A, the simulated tissue structure 20
includes a cover layer 46 located above the tumor 38. In one variation, the cover
layer 46 overlays the tumor 38, defect layer 42 and the base layer 40. The cover
layer 46 is preferably transparent or translucent in color and made of a polymer
material such as silicone. In another variation, the cover layer 46 is the same
color as the base layer 40 or defect layer 42. The cover layer 46 is at least as
thick as the base layer 40 or defect layer 42 and in one variation is thinner than
the defect layer 42 and in another variation is thinner than the base layer 40.
The cover layer 46 is sized to cover the entire tumor 38 and defect layer 42 and
is big enough to contact the base layer 40 in one variation. In another variation,
the cover layer 46 is sized to cover the entire tumor 38 and contact the defect
layer 40. The cover layer 46 is connected to the base layer 40, defect layer 42,
tumor 38 or any more than one of the three layers by way of adhesive or other
                                          - 11 -

means known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In another variation, the cover
layer 46 is smaller and connected to the defect layer 42 alone. In yet another
variation, the cover layer 46 is connected to both the defect layer 42 and base
layer 42 by adhesive or other means known to one of ordinary skill in the art.
The cover layer 46 can be any shape or size and be configured to provide a
smooth surface to the surgeon instead of a layered surface to the artificial tumor
location. The cover layer 46, tumor 38, defect layer 42 or base layer 40 includes
surface texturing in one variation. Also, the cover layer 46 assists in keeping the
tumor 38 and defect layer 42 sandwiched between the cover layer 46 and base
layer 40 which is advantageous in a variation wherein the tumor 38 is not
adhered to the defect layer 42. A top planar view of the base layer 40, defect
layer 42, cover layer 46 and tumor 38 is shown in FIG. 4. In one variation, any
one or more of the base layer 40, defect layer 42 and cover layer 46 is formed of
silicone molded over a woven, fabric, or mesh material such as nylon or
cheesecloth so that the silicone layer has an integrated mesh structural support
or other type of reinforcement. Any one or more of the layers 38, 40, 42, 46 can
include a fabric or mesh reinforcement combined with an elastic polymer such
silicone. The mesh support aids in preventing the suture, staple, or suture
needle from tearing through at least one of layers and especially the defect layer
42 when the suture is pulled to close the gap 44.
        [0052]    In FIG. 2B, the tumor 38 and a portion of the cover layer 46 are
shown excised from the base layer 40. The excision is performed by the trainee
using a surgical instrument such as a scalpel or other medical instrument to
remove the tumor 38. The trainee will cut through the cover layer 46 around the
tumor 38, isolate the tumor 38, lift and remove the tumor 38 away from the site to
expose the underlying defect 44 as shown in FIG. 2B. Then, as shown in FIG.
2C the trainee sutures the defect 44 using a surgical suture 48 bringing the lips
or edges of the defect layer 42 together as shown in FIG. 2D, thereby, practicing
the closing of a gap or wound created by the surgical removal of a tumor 38.
Cutting the at least one layer to create an opening and removing the artificial
tumor and suturing the gap is performed while the simulated tissue structure is
                                        -12-

disposed inside a simulated body cavity 18 of a surgical training device such that
the simulated tissue structure is at least partially obscured from view by the user.
        [0053]     Turning now to FIG. 5, there is shown another variation in which
there is no pre-formed gap or defect in the second or defect layer 42. Instead,
upon excising the tumor 38, the defect is created by the user in one or more of
the cover layer 46, defect layer 42, base layer 40 and any remaining tumor
portion not removed by the user. The user would then practice suturing the
created defect in any of these layers 38, 40, 42, 46. In one such variation, one of
the defect layer 42 or base layer 40 is omitted from the construct. In another
variation, the tumor 38 is located on a base layer 40 and the defect layer 42 is
placed over the tumor 38 such that the defect layer 42 is above the tumor 38. In
such a variation, a cover layer 46 may or may not be included. If a cover layer
46 is included it may be integrally formed together with the defect layer as a
separate unitary layer. In any of the constructs described above with respect to
FIGs. 2-5, the constructs may be flipped upside down or otherwise the layers
placed in reverse or otherwise the construct being approachable by the user from
either the top or bottom direction with the thicknesses and colors of the layers
being adjusted accordingly if necessary to provide the simulated effects of real
tissue.
        [0054]     Turning now to FIGs. 6A and 6B, in any of the variations in this
description, the simulated tissue construct can be modular such that it is not
integrally formed with the entire simulated organ 20 but instead configured as a
module 50 that is removable and interchangeable. One or more modules 50 are
supported or contained in a module support 52. A module support 52 includes a
first surface 51, a second surface 53 and one or more tumor module receiving
portions 54, 56, 58 formed in the support 52. The tumor support 52 can be rigid
or pliable and made of polymeric material. The tumor support 52 may also
comprise a sheet of elastomeric material. The module receiving portions 54, 56,
58 are each sized and configured to receive a correspondingly sized and
configured module 50. The modules 50 and module receiving portions 54, 56, 58
in FIG. 6 are shown to be circular; however, the tumor module 50 can be any
                                         -13-

shape with a complementary shaped receiving portion formed in the module
support 52. The thickness of the support 52 can vary providing the construct with
varying depths of tumor module 50 positioning. The module receiving portions
54, 56, 58 may include bottom walls onto which the tumor modules 50 may rest.
Alternatively, the tumor receiving portions 54, 56, 58 extend between openings in
the first surface 51 and the second surface 53 with the modules 50 with tumor 38
being connected between or at one of the openings at either surface 51, 53 or
suspended within the tumor receiving portion. In one variation, a single tumor
module 50 includes one or more tumors 38. The module support 52 is loaded
with one or more tumor modules 50 and the simulated tissue construct 20 is
inserted into the body cavity 18 of the surgical training device 10, framework or
other torso model. It can be placed on the base 12 of the training device 10 or
suspended within the body cavity 18 of the training device 10. The simulated
tissue construct 20 and/or training device is fashioned with attachment
mechanisms such as clips, fasteners, wires, hook-and-loop type fasteners and
the like for placement, suspension or connection of the simulated tissue construct
20 to a training device 10.
         [0055]     With particular reference to FIG. 6B, there is shown a module
support 52 that includes more than one layer. The module support 52 of FIG. 6B
includes a first layer 57 connected to a second layer 55. In one variation, the first
layer 57 is made of a sheet of elastomeric material and the second layer 55 is
made of any suitable polymeric material such as low-density elastomeric foam.
The second layer 55 serves as a support for the first layer 57. The second layer
55 also advantageously provides depth to the module support 52 permitting the
tumors 38 within the modules 50 to be placed deeply into the module support 52
relative to the first surface 51. Module receiving portions 54, 56, 58 are formed in
one or more than one of the first layer 57 and the second layer 55. Module
receiving portions 54, 56, 58 formed in the second layer 55 may have a different
shape than the shape the same module receiving portion 54, 56, 58 has in the
first layer 57. In one variation, the tumor module 50 comprises at least only the
simulated tumor 38 which is embedded or buried inside the second layer 55 with
                                          - 14 -

at least one of the first layer 57 or second layer 55 constituting a defect layer
which the user can practice closing. As an alternative, the first layer 57 does not
include a module receiving portion but instead the first layer 57 serves as a cover
layer which the user practices cutting through to access the tumor 38 located in a
tumor receiving portion formed in the second layer 55. In such variation, the first
layer 57 can be a sheet of elastomeric material such as silicone and the second
layer 55 is a layer of low-density elastomeric foam. The module support 52 is
planar as shown in FIGs. 6A and 6B or, alternatively, shaped to mimic a portion
of the human anatomy, tissue or organ.
         [0056]     For example, FIG. 7 illustrates a support 52 that is shaped to
mimic a human uterus. The support 52 includes a first layer 57 connected to a
second layer 55. In one variation, the first layer 57 is made of any suitable
polymeric material such as a sheet of elastomeric material and the second layer
55 is made of any suitable polymeric material such as low-density elastomeric
foam. The second layer 55 serves as a support for the first layer 57 and
advantageously permits the tumors 38 within the modules 50 or the tumors 38 by
themselves to be connected to the support 52 and realistically extend deeply into
the support 52 and be dispersed throughout the support 52 in various locations
and orientations including being embedded into the first layer 57 as shown in
FIG. 7. Tumor or module receiving portions 61 are formed in at least one of the
first layer 57 and second layer 55. The tumor receiving portions 61 may be
pockets that are preformed in the second layer 55 or can be formed by the user
by cutting slits into the second layer 55. In one variation, the tumors 38 are
configured to mimic fibroid tumors commonly found in the human uterus.
 Examples of fibroid tumors that are simulated by the tumors 38 disposed in the
support include but are not limited to one or more of the following types of
fibroids: pedunculated submucosal fibroids, subserosal fibroids, submucosal
fibroids, pedunculated subserosal fibroids and intramural fibroids. The user can
approach the support 52 to excise the simulated tumors 38 from the first surface
51 or the second surface 53 via the access channel or opening 63. In one
variation, the opening 63 serves as the only opening to the hollow portion 59 or
                                          - 15 -

alternatively the support 52 can have a substantially C-shaped planar
configuration with access available to the user from above or below the planar C
shaped structure.
        [0057]     In one variation, the module support 52 in any of the variations
is not planar but is provided with a landscape that includes curves and other
structures, mountains and valleys and various textures. The varying landscape
provides the user with various levels of difficulty in approaching each tumor
location requiring the user to navigate around artifacts and features that may
obscure the tumor location. These structural artifacts in the tumor support 52
may be integrally formed with the tumor support 52 or also be modular in
structure similar to the tumor modules 50 making the anatomy landscape
modules removable and interchangeable. Tumor modules 50 are
interchangeable with non-tumor modules that include, for example, features and
artifacts or textures made of silicone or other material extending outwardly or
inwardly from the one or more of the upper and lower surfaces 51, 53 of the
module support 52. The features in such non-tumor modules can have various
shapes to mimic anatomy that includes adjacent organ structures or tissues. For
example, a non-tumor module can include a tubular form of silicone to mimic an
intestine. The non-tumor and tumor modules 50 are removably connected to the
module support 52 by any means known to one skilled in the art enabling the
user to discard a module after use and then to continue practicing by replacing
the discarded module or moving to an adjacent module 50 in the module support
52 or changing out a tumor module 50 for another tumor module 50 having a
different feature or level of difficulty.
        [0058]     A variation of the tumor module 50 is shown in FIGs. 8 and 9.
The tumor module 50 includes a simulated tissue portion 60 connected to a
support 62. In the variation shown, the support 62 includes a top frame 64
connected to a bottom frame 66. At least one of the top frame 64 and bottom
frame 66 includes a window. The top frame 64 having a window 68 is shown in
 FIG. 8. The bottom frame 66 may or may not include a window. If windows are
 provided in both the top frame 64 and the bottom frame 66, the windows are
                                          - 16 -

aligned at least in part. The support 62 is sized and configured to receive a
simulated tissue portion 60 between the top frame 64 and the bottom frame 66.
The top frame 64 is connectable to the bottom frame 66 to capture the unitary
simulated tissue portion 60 or a simulated tissue portion 60 formed from multiple
layers and, in one variation, separable. In one variation, the frames 64, 66 are
spaced apart from each other using spacers 70. Furthermore, at least one of the
top and bottom frames 64, 66 includes one or more connecting features 72
configured to secure the tumor module 50 to a tumor support 52 (not shown). In
FIG. 9, the connecting features 72 are shown as extending pegs for insertion into
corresponding holes formed in the tumor support 52 to provide a snap-fit
engagement. A friction fit or other fasteners or connecting means such as hook
and-loop type materials can be employed on the module 50 and module support
52 to connect the module 50 to the support 52 in a removable fashion.
        [0059]     Still referencing FIGs. 8 and 9, the simulated tissue portion 60
can be any of the constructs described above with reference to FIGs. 2-5. With
windows formed in both the first and second frames 64, 66, the simulated tissue
portion 60 can be approached from either side of the module 50. Any layer
described above as a cover layer may act as a top layer or as a bottom layer
depending on from which side or direction the simulated tissue portion 60 is
approached. For example, a base layer may also serve as a top layer or as a
bottom layer depending on which side or direction the simulated tissue portion 60
is approached. In such bi-directional constructs, the thicknesses and colors of
the layers may be adjusted accordingly to provide the desired simulated effect.
        [0060]     The simulated tissue portion 60 in FIG. 9 includes a first layer
74 and a second layer 76. The first and second layers 74, 76 are made from a
polymeric material configured to mimic real live tissue such as silicone or other
polymer and can include dye of any one or more appropriate colors or mesh,
fabric, or other reinforcement. Each of the layers 74, 76 includes a tumor
receiving portion 78, 80, respectively. Each tumor-receiving portion 78, 80 is a
concavity, indent, half-pocket or a location of reduced layer thickness that is
formed in the layers 74, 76. The tumor-receiving portions 78, 80 are substantially
                                         - 17-

aligned to form a pocket for the tumor 38. Although each layer 74, 76 in FIG. 9 is
shown with a tumor-receiving portion 78, 80, a single tumor-receiving portion is
formed in at least one of the first and second layers 74, 76 in one variation. A
tumor 38 is disposed within the pocket formed by one or more tumor-receiving
portions 78, 80 formed in the one or more layers 74, 76. The tumor 38 may be
adhered to either layer 74, 76 or free-floating inside the pocket. As shown in
FIG. 9, the tumor-receiving portion formed in a layer can be considered to be one
type of defect and the variation of FIG. 9 describes a simulated tissue construct
comprising two defect layers with a tumor therebetween. As a user approaches
the simulated tissue portion 60, the user will see the target tumor location.
Visualization of the target tumor 38 is enhanced by the tumor-receiving portion
being thinner in thickness relative to the rest of the layer with the thinning of the
layer being provided by the concavity or pocket. The user will then cut in the
general location of the tumor cutting into at least one of the layers 74, 76 to
remove the tumor 38. Cutting through one or more layers completes the creation
of a gap or full defect, which the user can then practice suturing or otherwise
closing together. In another variation, there is no tumor-receiving portion formed
in the layers 74, 76. In such a variation, at least one tumor is disposed between
the two layers 74, 76 wherein the layers 74, 76 have a substantially uniform
thickness with the tumor 38 creating a minor bulge in the layers.
        [0061]     Turning now to FIGs. 10A, 1OB, 11A, 11B and 12, there is
shown another variation of a simulated tissue portion 86. The tissue portion 86
can be integral or modular as described above. The tissue portion 86 includes a
base layer 88 formed of any suitable polymeric material such as silicone or other
elastomeric polymer that may or may not include a reinforcement material such
as fabric, mesh, nylon or other reinforcement material or filler that will resist
tearing while carrying sutures or while being sutured. The base layer 88 is
connected to a defect layer 90 that is overlaid onto the base layer 88. The defect
layer 90 includes a plurality of protrusions extending upwardly from the base
layer 88. The defect layer 90 may be integrally formed with the base layer 88 or
be a separate layer that is adhered to the base layer 88. As can be seen in
                                         -18-

FIGs. 10A, 11 A and 12, the defect layer 90 is configured into a lattice shaped
pattern such that the lattice is raised above the base layer 88 or projects
upwardly from the base layer 88. A lattice pattern is exemplary and any shape
may be formed by the defect layer 90 such that it contains a plurality of adjacent
projections. These projections of the base layer 90 provide the user with
locations to hook a suture needle into and as a platform to raise the tumor 38a,
38b above the base layer 88 for easy excision. The tumors 38a, 38b may be
adhered to the defect layer 90 and a cover layer 92 may be included in one
variation. FIGs. 10A and 11A show the base layer 88, defect layer 90, tumors
38a, 38b and a cover layer 92 in a semi-exploded view of the simulated tissue
portion 86 wherein the cover layer 92 is raised above the other layers. The
tumor 38a of FIG. 10a is substantially planar and is shown covered in FIG. 1OB
by the cover layer 92. Tumor 38b of FIG. 11A has greater height and is
substantially spherical in shape and FIG. 11B shows the spherical tumor 38b
covered with the cover layer 92 leaving a raised portion or protuberance in the
construct. FIG. 12 shows the tumor 38 being removed leaving a remnant defect
94 in the base layer 88 and a suture needle crossing the gap in the defect 94
with the defect having been accessed under or through the cover layer 92.
        [0062]     Synthetic materials that mimic the characteristics of living tissue
may include silicone elastomers, natural latex, polyurethane elastomers,
hydrogels and styrenic-block-copolymers. Generally, the elastomeric materials
are dielectric unless specially treated. An elastomer is generally any of various
polymers with elastic properties resembling those of natural rubber. A hydrogel
is generally a hydrophilic polymer containing between 50% and 99% water. A
thermoplastic generally pertains to materials that may be repeatedly made soft
and hard by heating and cooling. Thermoplastics are non-conductive and are
suitable for making the tray or base, bone and other similar structures. A
thermoset generally pertains to elastomeric materials that permanently harden or
solidify upon being heated or cured. Thermoset plastics are non-conductive such
as silicone and polyester and are suitable for forming pathologies, tumors and
the like. Silicone elastomers are usually very soft, stable and non-conductive
                                         -19-

and therefore suitable for forming artificial organs such as the liver, kidney,
spleen, ovaries, gallbladder, stomach, major arteries, colon, intestine, major
veins, omentum, mesentery, pathologies and other anatomy. Natural latex is
very resilient and non-conductive and suitable for forming artificial muscle,
cartilage and the like. Polyurethane elastomers and foams are non-conductive
and suitable for filling hollow structures, bone and the like. Hydrogels SBCs may
be conductive and are good for any soft structure to be operated upon by
electrosurgery.
        [0063]     In one variation, a surgical simulation tray, that is insertable into
a lap trainer 10 for practicing surgical techniques including laparoscopic and
electro-surgical methods, comprises a base, an arrangement of anatomical
organs, and a covering layer. The base comprises a rigid or semi-rigid structure
that is sized and configured to fit within or upon a surgical training device 10.
The base is additionally supplied with anatomical support features or receptacle
portions formed by upstanding walls that cooperate and conform in size and
shape with the placement of body organs within the receptacle portion or upon
the base. Body organs, made of elastomeric materials, are placed strategically
within or upon the base according to the specific needs of the training device
and/or according to the target anatomy. At least one covering layer may be
placed over the entire assembly or upon specific areas thereof. The covering
layer is sized and configured to represent one or more of the omentum,
mesentery, fat, connective tissue, peritoneum, mesothelium, broad ligaments or
the like. The covering layer may comprise silicone elastomer, which is non
conductive. The non-conductive covering layer is suitable if no electrosurgical
activity is used on the covering layer. If electrosurgical activity is contemplated,
the covering layer is comprised of a conductive gel such as a hydrogel. A
combination of conductive and non-conductive layers is provided when
electrosurgery is directed to one of the layers.
        [0064]     In addition to the organs placed within or upon the base, there
may be a plurality of pathologies or defects also placed strategically relative to
the organs or within the simulated organs themselves. The pathologies or
                                          -20-

defects may represent tumors, cysts, ectopic pregnancies or the like. For
instance, a uterus may be formed having an outer layer of silicone rubber and a
substantially hollow inner layer of soft polyurethane foam as described above
with respect to FIG. 7. At various locations between the silicone layer and the
foam layer, synthetic fibroid tumors may be placed for identification and removal
by a surgical trainee. One simulated construction of a synthetic fibroid tumor
comprises a small quantity of very soft uncured silicone rubber. The uncured
silicone rubber is mixed with a quantity of amorphous, untreated fumed silicon
dioxide, which acts as a filler and flow controller. The combination of the uncured
silicone rubber and the silicon dioxide is shaped and allowed to cure. When fully
cured, this combination results in an irregularly shaped, somewhat fibrous
structure that resembles a human fibroid tumor. This construction of a simulated
human fibroid tumor is then placed into a simulated organ model such as that of
a uterus. This tumor simulation is not limited for use to mimic a tumor in a
gynecological model, but also can be used in other organ models that include
tumors for practicing their removal. This tumor simulation comprising the cured
mixture of silicone rubber and silicon dioxide strikingly resembles real-life tumors
that are found in a gynecological surgical situation and provides an amorphous
and realistic look and feel when practicing surgical techniques. Dark colored dye
such as red or black may be added to the mixture before curing and mixed
throughout. This construction may also be used to construct simulated ectopic
pregnancies for insertion into a simulated fallopian tube of a simulated organ
placed within the training device 10. The mixed consistency of the silicone and
filler, being very dry and shape-able, advantageously allows the tumors or other
pathologies to be formed very creatively, easily and at any size to mimic actual
physical conditions. Tumors made of silicone and filler are non-conductive and
may be fractured or torn if not properly handled.
         [0065]    A few examples of organ simulation models that include the
combination of conductive and non-conductive portions will now be discussed. In
the surgical procedure of a liver resection, a simulated organ model tray for
training electrosurgical procedures will have a conductive hydrogel liver, cystic
                                         -21 -

duct and mesentery. These conductive portions of the model are located
adjacent to non-conductive portions of the anatomy comprising the same organ
or different organs. For example, for practicing the surgical procedure of a
cholecystectomy, the organ model includes a cystic duct and mesothelium made
from electro-conductive hydrogel and the liver and gallbladder are non
conductive. For practicing a sleeve gastrectomy, the simulated organ model
includes one or more of the blood vessels and the greater omentum/mesentery
along the greater curvature of the stomach made of electro-conductive hydrogel
material and one or more of the stomach, large intestine, and small intestine
made of non-conductive material. For practicing a gastric bypass, the simulated
organ model includes one or more of the short gastric vessels and the
mesentery/omentum along the greater curvature of the stomach made of electro
conductive hydrogel material and the stomach made of non-conductive material.
In one variation, at least a portion of the jejunum and/or stomach is made of
electro-conductive hydrogel. For practicing ovarian procedures such as the
removal of fibroid tumors, treatment of ectopic pregnancy, ovarian cysts, and
hysterectomy, the training model includes both conductive and non-conductive
materials. For example, the organ model may include one or more simulated
fallopian tubes, round ligament, ovarian ligament, IP ligament, broad ligament,
bladder flap, uterine artery/vein, cardinal ligament, uterosacral ligament, made of
electro-conductive hydrogel and one or more of the uterus, ovaries, rectum,
 urinary bladder, ureters and kidneys are non-conductive. In one variation, the
 location just above the cervix and/or just below the cervix is made of electro
conductive hydrogel for practicing a supracervical or total colpotomy.
 Procedures that involve the colon, small intestine, sigmoid or rectum may also
 require that specific portions be electrically conductive. These conductive
 portions are located adjacent to non-conductive portions. For example, to
 practice transanal minimally invasive surgery for the local excision of tumors, the
organ model would include a colon and/or rectum, and tumor made of non
 conductive elastomeric material except for the area surrounding the tumor which
would be made of electro-conductive hydrogel material. In another variation, at
                                          - 22 -

least a portion of the rectum is made of electro-conductive hydrogel such as for
the practice of transanal total mesorectal excision. In the practice of an
appendectomy, the simulated organ model may include one or more of the
mesentery/mesoappendix, appendiceal artery and blood vessels made of
electro-conductive hydrogel and one or more of the appendix, cecum and
terminal ileum made of non-conductive elastomeric material. For practicing a
colectomy, the simulated organ model may include one or more of the
mesentery, ileocolic artery, middle colic artery, right colic artery, inferior
mesenteric artery, inferior mesenteric vein, left colic artery, sigmoid arteries,
rectal arteries, marginal arteries, corresponding veins, omentum, white line of
Toldt, mesenteric attachments to the retroperitoneum, and mesorectum made of
electro-conductive hydrogel and one or more of the colon, liver, spleen, stomach,
kidney, duodenum, retroperitoneum made of non-conductive material. Hydrogel
material must be hydrated in order to be sufficiently conductive and therefore it
may be difficult to maintain a long shelf-life.
        [0066]     With reference to the covering layer, in one variation, the
covering layer comprises a thin semi-transparent sheet of silicone rubber that is
calendared or press-formed so as to have a texture and finish that appears to be
 naturally occurring. An alternate variation of the covering layer may further
comprise a thin semi-transparent sheet of hydrogel material that is cured from
slurry and allowed to develop surface features as it cures. The hydrogel material,
when hydrated becomes conductive and allows the use of electrosurgical
devices. A composite structure for the covering layer comprises a conductive gel
 layer sandwiched between two silicone elastomer non-conductive layers. In such
 a case, one or more of the outer non-conductive layers are removed to expose
the conductive gel layer. The non-conductive silicone layers advantageously
 provide a sealing for the hydrogel layer retaining the fluid content of the
 conductive gel.
        [0067]     In another variation of the covering layer, a thin film of two-part
 platinum or tin cured liquid silicone, thoroughly mixed, is placed upon a sheet of
 textured polyethylene foam. A notched trowel or spreader is then used to spread
                                          - 23 -

the silicone material over the surface of the first layer of foam leaving an irregular
pattern of material thickness. A second layer of textured polyethylene foam is
placed over the first layer of foam leaving the silicone between. A textured roller
or stamping device is then moved over the surface of the second layer of foam to
calendar the silicone material between the foam layers. The resulting silicone
sheet, when cured, is non-tacky and exhibits the characteristics of omentum,
mesentery, fat etc. The sheet advantageously has strong and weak regions that
can be used to demonstrate the use of mechanical dissecting instruments and
scissors.
        [0068]      The specific organs that may be used in a surgical simulation
device include a uterus 100 as shown in FIG. 13. The uterus comprises an outer
shell constructed of soft silicone rubber molded over a uterine form. When the
shell is fully cured, it is placed over a molded foam rubber uterine form that is
substantially hollow, having about a 7 to 9 millimeter thick wall. Various
pathologies may be placed between the silicone shell and the foam wall. Some
pathologies may be inserted into the foam wall to mimic intramural tumors, fibroid
tumors 102 or cysts. Fallopian tubes 104, ovarian ligaments 106 and other
attendant structures may be inserted into the silicone/foam structure and
attached with adhesive. Ovarian cysts 124 may also be provided and made of
the same tumor material. Attendant structures may include the aorta 114, the
internal iliac artery 116, the ovarian artery 118, the uterine artery 120, the vaginal
artery 121, and the uterosacral ligament 122. The uterine shell is the primary
portion to be operated upon. In one variation, it is constructed of silicone
elastomer and therefore suitable if the uterine model is intended to be cut or
incised in training. If electrosurgery is being practiced upon the uterine model, a
uterine model is selected that comprises conductive gel. Connecting structures
and tubes are constructed of silicone elastomer or conductive gel depending on
the surgical modality.
        [0069]      Fallopian tubes 104 constructed of two-part platinum or tin
cured silicone comprising a first open end and a second open end and a through
lumen. The first open end forms a tubular structure that extends a distance of
                                          -24 -

about 20 centimeters and has a diameter of about 6.5 millimeters and a very thin
wall of approximately 1-1.5 millimeters. Toward the end of the tubular structure,
a bulbous portion is formed having a diameter of about 1.5 centimeters and a
length of about 3 centimeters. The bulbous portion transitions to a narrowing of
the tubular structure to about 7 millimeters. The narrowed tubular structure then
gradually enlarges into a funnel shaped structure having a final open diameter of
about 2 centimeters over a length of about 3.5 centimeters. Before the fallopian
tube 104 is removed from the form upon which it is made, a plurality of axial cuts
 108 is made at the second enlarged open end. When removed from the form,
these cuts allow the silicone material to move in a way that resembles human
fimbria. Pathology such as an ectopic pregnancy 110 may be inserted into the
bulbous portion of the fallopian tube 104 for identification or excision. In addition,
to maintain the shape of the thin walled conduit portion of the fallopian tube when
folded, a length of soft fibrous yarn, such as used in knitting, may be placed
within the lumen.
        [0070]    In the simulated uterine model, the ovaries 112 are hollow
bulbous structures formed from two-part platinum or tin cured silicone. A soft
polyurethane foam support is placed within the ovarian structure. The
polyurethane support is sized and configured to fit neatly within the ovarian shell
and have a nest or receptacle for pathology such as an ovarian cyst 124. The
trainee may cut through the ovarian wall and into the polyurethane foam to
remove the pathology and subsequently suture the defect to close. Ovaries are
made of non-conductive material and are cut with scissors or scalpel. In another
variation, the ovaries are made of conductive gel so they could be cut with
electrosurgery. The cyst is made of non-conductive material.
        [0071]    In another simulated organ model, a stomach comprises a
hollow stomach-shaped bladder having a first open end, a second open end and
an enlarged central portion. The enlarged central portion is divided by a pathway
that extends from near the first open end to near the second open end. The
pathway comprises a region of silicone adhesive placed strategically along a
desired trajectory adjacent to the lesser curvature of the stomach. The opposing
                                         - 25 -

walls of the stomach bladder are approximated and held together by the
adhesive. The stomach may be divided along the adhesive pathway to simulate
a particular procedure. That is, the adhesive pathway directs the trainee to
staple or cut along a preferred surgical pathway. The adhesive simulates the
condition in which several rows of staples would be placed before the cutting
element in a surgical stapler is deployed. As a result, the dissected stomach
portion appears to be stapled securely and the residual stomach portion is gas
tight and secure. In another variation, the adhered portion of the stomach is
formed of conductive gel material adjacent to non-conductive adjacent portions of
the stomach. In yet another variation, the predetermined surgical pathway
across the stomach or other organ is constructed of conductive gel material
adjacent to non-conductive material of the same organ or adjacent to non
conductive material of different organs and anatomical structures.
        [0072]    In another simulated organ model, a liver constructed of
hydrogel may be placed into the training module 10 where the procedure would
involve electrosurgical dissection. In one variation, the base or tray of the
training module 10 receives and holds in place either a silicone liver or a
hydrogel liver. A receiving feature may comprise a nest, pocket or receptacle
sized and configured to maintain in position a silicone or hydrogel or foam rubber
liver depending on the needs of the particular training module. If a procedure
required electrosurgical activity, such as a liver resection, the liver is made of
conductive gel. The base or tray is configured to accept a liver made of gel,
silicone or foam depending on the specific procedure. If the procedure to be
practiced does not involve electrosurgery, it is far more economical to use a
silicone or foam model.
        [0073]    While certain embodiments have been particularly shown and
described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof, it will be understood
by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may
be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof as defined by
the following claims.
                                          - 26 -

           [0074]        It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is
   referred to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the
   publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the art, in
   Australia or any other country.
 5
           [0075]        In the claims which follow and in the preceding description
   of the invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express
   language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
10 presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
   further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                           - 26a
                                                              10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU. 1 15/06/18

                                           CLAIMS
   1.        A surgical simulation system for the practice of electrosurgical activity,
   comprising:
 5           a simulated tissue structure comprising:
             an inner layer adjacent to and in contact with an outer layer; the inner
   layer comprising a foam material and the outer layer comprising an elastomeric
   hydrogel; the inner layer defines an interior cavity and both the inner layer and
   the outer layer define a shape of at least a portion of a uterus; and
10           a simulated pathology located adjacent to or embedded in the inner
   layer; the simulated pathology being removable from the simulated tissue
   structure;
             wherein the elastomeric hydrogel is electro-conductive such that it is
   operably severable under application of electrical current to simulate
15 electrosurgery in a training environment.
   2.        The surgical simulation system of claim 1 further including at least one
   tube having a first end and a second end; the tube extending outwardly from
   the outer layer and configured to define the shape of a fallopian tube; the tube
20 comprising electro-conductive hydrogel material operably severable under
   application of electrical current to simulate electrosurgery.
   3.        The surgical simulation system of claim 2 wherein the at least one tube
   defines a lumen extending between the first end and the second end and a
25 bulbous portion near the second end that transitions to a funnel-like shape
   having a plurality of axial cuts in the funnel portion.
   4.        The surgical simulation system of claim 3 further including soft fibrous
   fiberfill material located inside a portion of the lumen.
30
   5.        The surgical simulation system of claim 2 further including a simulated
   ectopic pregnancy in the at least one tube.
                                             - 27
                                                               10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

    6.      The surgical simulation of claim 2 further including at least one simulated
    ovary.
  5 7.      The surgical simulation system of claim 1 further including at least one
    tube having a first end and a second end; the tube extending outwardly from
    the outer layer and configured to mimic the shape of a fallopian tube; the tube
    comprising silicone containing electro-conductive material.
10  8.      The surgical simulation system of claim 1 wherein the simulated
    pathology is made of silicone and untreated fumed silicon dioxide.
    9.      The surgical simulation system of claim 1 further including an opening to
    the cavity.
15
    10.     The surgical simulation system of claim 1 wherein the simulated
    pathology is located in pockets that are pre-formed in the inner layer.
    11.     The surgical simulation system of claim 1 further including a simulated
20  aorta, internal iliac artery, ovarian artery, uterine artery, vaginal artery, or
    uterosacral ligament.
    12.     A surgical simulation system, comprising:
           a tray having a base with a perimeter and one or more anatomical
25  receptacle portion formed by at least one upstanding wall configured to
    substantially cooperate and conform in size and shape with one or more
    simulated body organ located within the one or more receptacle portion;
           one or more simulated body organ placed upon the base within the one
    or more receptacle portion; and
30         at least one covering layer placed over the one or more simulated body
    organ; the covering layer being attached to the one or more simulated body
    organ in at least one location;
                                              - 28
                                                                 10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

           wherein at least one of the one or more simulated body organ and
    covering layer includes electro-conductive gel operably severable under
    application of electrical current to simulate electrosurgery in a training
    environment.
  5
    13.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the covering layer is
    attached to the tray.
    14.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the system includes
10  two or more simulated body organs and the covering layer is placed over all of
    the simulated body organs located on the tray.
    15.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the electro
    conductive gel is located between two non-conductive areas.
15
    16.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the electro
    conductive gel defines a predetermined pathway between non-conductive
    regions; the predetermined pathway being configured to simulate a pathway
    encountered in real surgery for practicing electrosurgical activity.
20
    17.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the electro
    conductive gel is in contact with an adjacent non-conductive area.
    18.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the electro
25  conductive gel is a layer in the covering layer; the electro-conductive gel layer
    being sandwiched between two outer layers of elastomeric material; the two
    outer layers being not operably severably under application of electrical current
    for simulating electrosurgery.
30  19.    The surgical simulation system of claim 18 wherein the two layers of
    non-conductive elastomeric material are configured to retain moisture in the
    electro-conductive gel layer that is located between them.
                                            - 29
                                                              10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

    20.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the simulated body
    organs on the tray include simulated kidneys, ureters, aorta, vena cava and
    hepatic vessels and the covering layer covers all of the simulated body organs;
  5 the covering layer being attached to at least a portion of the perimeter of the
    tray.
    21.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the simulated body
    organs on the tray include a simulated transverse colon, stomach, a portion of
10  the descending colon, a portion of the ascending colon, and a gallbladder; and
    the covering layer covering all of the simulated body organs.
    22.    The surgical simulation system of claim 21 wherein the covering layer is
    attached to the descending colon and to the liver.
15
    23.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the covering layer is
    approximately 0.010 to 0.05 inches thick.
    24.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the covering layer is
20  transparent or translucent.
    25.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the covering layer is
    made of made of elastomeric material.
25  26.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the at least one
    simulated body organ is made of elastomeric material.
    27.    The surgical simulation system of claim 12 wherein the training
    environment is a surgical training device including:
30        a base;
                                           - 30
                                                             10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

          a top cover connected to and spaced apart from the base to define an
   internal cavity between the top cover and the base; the internal cavity being at
   least partially obstructed from direct observation by a practitioner;
           wherein the tray, simulated body organs and covering layer are placed
 5 inside the internal cavity.
   28.     A method comprising the steps of:
          providing an organ tray having a base with one or more simulated body
   organ; a covering layer placed over the one or more simulated body organ; the
10 covering layer includes a first planar layer of non-conductive material and a
   second planar layer of electro-conductive gel; the covering layer being placed
   over the one or more simulated body organ such that the second layer is
   adjacent to the one or more simulated body organ;
          placing the organ tray into an internal cavity of a surgical training device
15 such that the organ tray is at least partially obstructed from direct visual
   observation by a practitioner; the surgical training device having a top cover
   spaced apart from the base; the internal cavity being defined between the top
   cover and base; the surgical training device including an aperture or penetrable
   simulated tissue region in the top cover;
20        inserting a scope configured to capture video of the internal cavity
   through the aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region and into the internal
   cavity of the training device;
          inserting at least one instrument through the aperture or penetrable
   simulated tissue region into the internal cavity of the training device;
25         separating the first layer from the second layer with the at least one
   instrument.
   29.     The method of claim 28 further wherein the step of inserting at least one
   instrument includes inserting at least one instrument configured to deliver
30 electric current at a distal end of the instrument; further including the step of
   cutting the second layer with the application of electrical current from the
   instrument to simulate electrosurgical activity.
                                            - 31
                                                              10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

30.     The method of claim 28 wherein the covering layer further includes a
third layer of silicone material connected to the second layer such that the
second layer is located between the first and third layers.
                                       - 32
                                                         10369267_1 (GHMatters) P100752.AU.1 14/06/18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
