                                      ABSTRACT
  Disclosed herein is a cup assembly comprising an inner cup, an embossed and/or
  debossed outer layer formed of stretchable paper, and a middle layer disposed
  between a sidewall of the inner cup and the outer layer. Also disclosed is a
5 method of forming the cup.

                                             CUP
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
   This disclosure relates to cups for containing e.g. food or drink.
                                     BACKGROUND ART
 5 Disposable cups are commonly used for dispensing hot and cold liquids (e.g.
   coffee, tea, smoothies), and sometimes food (e.g. yoghurt, ice cream) to
   consumers. Such cups have previously been formed of polystyrene, largely due to
   its thermal insulation properties (which allow a cup to be handled when
   containing hot or cold food or liquid). However, polystyrene is also slow to
10 biodegrade, and thus disposal of such cups could be detrimental to the
   environment.
   Because of this issue, there is an increasing preference for disposable cups that are
   formed of paper instead of polystyrene. However, paper is generally inferior to
   polystyrene in regards to its thermal insulation.
15 In addition to providing an insulating function, the walls of disposable cups may
   be used to increase the market attractiveness of the product (e.g. a drink contained
   in the cup). For example, the outer surfaces of such disposable cups may contain
   branding in the form of logos, slogans, messages, etc. The purpose of this
   branding may be to associate the product with a particular brand, and/or to have
20 an effect on a consumer's perception of the product.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does
   not constitute an admission that the prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                1

                                         SUMMARY
   Disclosed herein is a cup assembly comprising an inner cup, an embossed and/or
   debossed outer layer formed of stretchable paper, and a middle layer disposed
   between a sidewall of the inner cup and the outer layer.
 5 In one embodiment the outer layer and middle layer may be bonded to one
   another at one or more bonded regions, and may be detached from one another at
   one or more free regions. It may not be necessary that the free region be
   completely free of bonding - rather, the term 'free region' is used to identify a
   region as being one that is substantially free of bonding. That is, the bonding of
10 the outer layer and middle layer may be substantially provided at the one or more
   bonded regions, and any bonding in the one or more free regions may be generally
   insignificant in regards to the overall bonding of the outer layer and middle layer
   together.
   It is understood that each of the inner cup, the outer layer and the middle layer
15 may be formed as a composite. For example, the outer layer and/or the middle
   layer may be a composite. Each composite may be formed from two or more
   layers that are intimately connected, bound together, or integrally formed across
   the expanse of that layer. The two or more layers of each composite can be seen or
   referred to as "sub-layers" of a given one of the inner cup, the outer layer and the
20 middle layer.
   In one embodiment the one or more bonded regions may be disposed at a
   periphery of the outer layer, and the one or more free regions may be disposed at a
   central portion of the outer layer. In this way, the bonding between the layers
   may be minimal, which may reduce heat transfer between the layers. It also
25 means that damage or disruption to the embossed outer layer during
   manufacturing may be minimal (i.e. because in some cases the layers may need to
   be pressed together in order to bond them which would otherwise flatten the
   embossed portions).
                                              2

   In one embodiment the middle layer and the outer layer may form a sleeve that is
   wrapped around the sidewall of the inner cup. The sleeve may partially or fully
   extend around the sidewall of the inner cup.
   In one embodiment the sleeve may comprise in use upper and lower edges that
 5 extend at least partially around the circumference of the inner cup, and opposite
   ends that extend between the upper and lower edges. The bonded regions may be
   disposed at or proximate the opposite ends of the sleeve. The bonded regions may
   be in the form of bonded strips.
   In one embodiment the ends of the sleeve may overlap. The one or more bonded
10 regions may be disposed at the overlapped ends of the sleeve. In this way, the
   bonding between the ends of the sleeve, and the bonding between the middle and
   outer layers, may align along a generally longitudinal band or strip of the cup
   assembly (e.g. extending between the upper and lower edges of the sleeve). It is
   not necessary that the band or strip be continuous, and instead may be formed of
15 e.g. small bonded regions spaced along the band or strip.
   In one embodiment the middle layer and the outer layer may only be bonded to
   one another at their overlapped ends (or overlapped portions that may or may not
   be at the ends of middle and/or outer layers). This may help to maximize the
   space available on the outer layer for an embossed and/or debossed design.
20 In one embodiment the cup assembly may comprise a single bonded region in the
   form of a bonded strip extending between the upper and lower edges of the sleeve.
   That is, the middle layer and outer layer may remain detached outside of the
   bonded strip. This may reduce the amount of bonding in the cup assembly and
   may, for example, limit heat transfer between the inner cup and the outer layer.
25 In one embodiment an inner surface of a first of the ends of the sleeve may be
   bonded to an outer surface of a second of the ends of the sleeve.
                                              3

   In one embodiment the sleeve may be bonded to the inner cup along a generally
   central circumferential portion intermediate in use upper and lower edges of the
   sleeve. This may secure the sleeve from sliding relative to the inner cup.
   In one embodiment, the outer layer may be thermoformed stretchable paper. In
 5 one embodiment, the outer layer may be formed from a composite of stretchable
   paper. In some forms, the outer layer composite may be formed from two or more
   layers that are intimately connected, bound together, or integrally formed across
   the expanse of that layer. In some forms, the outer layer composite may be formed
   from an external outer layer and an internal outer layer. To form the outer layer,
10 the external outer layer and the internal outer layer can be intimately connected,
   bound together, or integrally formed at their facing surfaces. In some forms, the
   external outer layer may be embossed/debossed and/or the internal layer may be
   embossed/debossed. The composite layer of stretchable paper assists in slowing
   down water penetration.
15 In one embodiment the stretchability of the stretchable paper may be at least 5%
   in the machine direction (MD) and the cross direction (CD) when measured
   according to ISO 1924/3.
   In one embodiment the stretchability of the stretchable paper may be at least 13%
   in the machine direction (MD) and 7% in the cross direction (CD) when measured
20 according to ISO 1924/3. Such a stretchability may allow the outer layer to be
   embossed and/or debossed.
   In one embodiment the inner cup may comprise a base portion connected to the
   sidewall, the base portion and sidewall defining a liquid containing recess.
   In one embodiment air pockets may be formed between the outer layer and the
25 middle layer. The air pockets may provide further insulation (i.e. so as to isolate a
   user from hot or cold contents contained in the inner cup).
                                              4

   In one embodiment air pockets may be formed between the middle layer and the
   inner cup. Again, this may help to insulate e.g. a user from hot or cold contents
   stored within the inner cup.
   In one embodiment, the middle layer may be scored. The scoring may be such
 5 that raised portions are formed on the middle layer. The scoring may help to
   define the air pockets between the middle layer and the outer layer, or between the
   middle layer and the inner cup. In one embodiment, the middle layer may be
   formed from composite. The middle layer composite may be formed from two or
   more layers that are intimately connected, bound together, or integrally formed
10 across the expanse of that layer. The middle layer composite may be formed from
   an outer middle layer and a liner middle layer. To form the middle layer, the
   outer middle layer and the liner middle layer can be intimately connected, bound
   together, or integrally formed at their facing surfaces. Scoring may also be
   formed on the middle layer composite by forming raised portions on the outer
15 middle layer and intimately adhering the scored outer middle layer to the inner
   middle layer. This arrangement is advantageous as the scored middle layer retains
   its shape and provides insulation for the material being held in the cup. In some
   embodiments, the outer middle layer may be in the form of a corrugated layer that
   is intimately connected to a liner layer. In the corrugated middle layer
20 arrangement, this helps to arrest sweating of the cup or provide insulation to
   maintain the temperature of the material being held in the cup.
   In one embodiment the outer layer (including the outer layer composite) may
   comprise one or more embossed and/or debossed portions arranged to form one or
   more indicia. Such indicia may be in the form of text, images, branding, etc.
25 Alternatively or additionally, the outer layer (including the outer layer composite)
   may comprise one or more raised embossed portions arranged in a non-repeating
   manner. The one or more embossed and/or debossed portions may be disposed at
   a free region of the outer layer. In one form, both the external outer layer and the
   internal outer layer may be embossed and/or debossed at the free region of the
30 outer layer.
                                              5

   In one embodiment the cup assembly may be a disposable paper cup for hot or
   cold liquids such as e.g. coffee, tea, etc.
   Also disclosed is a method of forming a cup assembly. The method comprises
   bonding an embossed and/or debossed outer layer formed of stretchable paper to a
 5 middle layer to form a sleeve, and arranging the sleeve around an inner cup to
   form the cup assembly. It understood that the inner cup, the outer layer and the
   middle layer each may be formed as a composite to form the respective cup or
   layer. Each composite may be formed from two or more layers that are intimately
   connected, bound together, or integrally formed across the expanse of that layer.
10 The two or more layers of each composite can be seen or referred to as "sub
   layers" of a given one of the inner cup, the outer layer and the middle layer.
   In one embodiment the method may comprise embossing and/or debossing the
   stretchable paper layer. In one embodiment, the method may comprise forming
   the stretchable paper layer from composite. In one embodiment, the method may
15 comprise embossing and/or debossing the stretchable composite. In one
   embodiment, the middle layer may also be formed as a composite.
   In one embodiment the bonding may be performed such that the outer and middle
   layers are bonded at one or more bonded regions, and remain detached from one
   another at one or more free regions. As set forth above, the term 'free region' is
20 intended to define an area that is generally free of bonding, but not necessarily
   completely free of bonding (i.e. the free regions may comprise minimal or
   insignificant bonding).
   In one embodiment the one or more bonded regions are disposed at a periphery of
   the outer layer, and the one or more free regions may be disposed at a central
25 portion of the outer layer.
   In one embodiment the sleeve may comprise in use upper and lower edges that
   extend at least partially around the circumference of the inner cup when the sleeve
   is arranged therearound, and opposite ends that extend between the upper and
                                               6

   lower edges. The bonding may be performed such that the bonded regions are
   disposed at or proximate the opposite ends of the sleeve.
   In one embodiment the method may comprise the step of overlapping the ends of
   the sleeve and bonding the ends to define a generally cylindrical (or frusto
 5 conical) hollow interior for receipt of the inner cup.
   In one embodiment the steps of bonding the overlapped ends of the sleeve and
   bonding the outer layer to the middle layer may be performed concurrently. This
   may, for example, be performed by a machine that wraps the outer and middle
   layers around a template so that their ends overlap and then bonds the overlapped
10 ends to one another.
   In one embodiment the method may further comprise the step of applying
   adhesive along an edge of the outer layer and a corresponding edge of the middle
   layer. The edges may define the outer overlapped ends of the sleeve when
   wrapped around the inner cup.
15 In one embodiment the adhesive may be a hot melt adhesive and the bonding may
   be performed by way of ultrasonic welding applied to the hot melt adhesive.
   In one embodiment the ultrasonic welding may be performed along a single
   bonding strip between the upper and lower edges of the sleeve. As set forth
   above, this may minimize the amount of adhesive used to form the cup assembly,
20 and may also maximize the space on the outer layer that comprises an embossed
   and/or debossed design.
   In one embodiment the step of arranging the sleeve around the inner cup may
   further comprise bonding the sleeve to the inner cup. For example, an adhesive
   may be applied to the inner cup and may bond the sleeve to the inner cup when it
25 is received around the sidewall. Alternatively, the adhesive may require curing by
   way of the application of ultrasonic welding.
   In one embodiment, the outer layer may be thermoformed stretchable paper. In
   one embodiment, the outer layer may be formed from a composite of stretchable
                                              7

   paper. In some forms, the outer layer composite may be formed from an external
   outer layer and an internal outer layer. To form the outer layer, can be intimately
   connected, bound together, or integrally formed at their facing surfaces. In some
   forms, the external outer layer may be embossed/debossed and/or the internal
 5 layer may be embossed/debossed. The composite layer of stretchable paper
   assists in slowing down water penetration.
   In one embodiment the stretchability of the stretchable paper may be at least 5%
   in the machine direction (MD) and the cross direction (CD) when measured
   according to ISO 1924/3.
10 In one embodiment the stretchability of the stretchable paper may be at least 13%
   in the machine direction (MD) and 7% in the cross direction (CD) when measured
   according to ISO 1924/3.
   In one embodiment the step of embossing and/or debossing may comprise
   forming one or more raised portions that are arranged so as to define one or more
15 indicia. The step of embossing and/or debossing may alternatively or additionally
   comprise forming one or more raised portions that are arranged in a non-repeating
   manner. The one or more embossed and/or debossed portions may be formed at a
   free region.
   In one embodiment the method may further comprise scoring the middle layer.
20 The scoring may enable air pockets to form between the middle layer and the
   inner cup.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments will now be described by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
25          Figures 1A and 1B are respective front and front-section (exploded)
            views of an embodiment of a cup assembly;
                                              8

            Figure 2A illustrates an exploded view of an embodiment of a sleeve of a
   cup assembly;
            Figure 2B illustrates the sleeve of Figure 2A in an assembled form;
            Figure 3A is a top-section view of an embodiment of a sleeve;
 5          Figure 3B is a detail view of the sleeve of Figure 3A;
            Figure 4 schematically depicts an embodiment of a process for producing
   an embodiment of a cup assembly; and
            Figures 5A and 5B are respective front and front-section (exploded)
   views of an embodiment of a cup assembly.
10                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   In the following detailed description, reference is made to accompanying
   drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The illustrative
   embodiments described in the detailed description, depicted in the drawings and
   defined in the claims, are not intended to be limiting. Other embodiments may be
15 utilised and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope
   of the subject matter presented. It will be readily understood that the aspects of
   the present disclosure, as generally described herein and illustrated in the
   drawings can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated and designed in a
   wide variety of different configurations, all of which are contemplated in this
20 disclosure.
   Figure 1A illustrates an embodiment of a cup assembly 100, which comprises a
   paper inner cup 102 and a sleeve 104 wrapped around the inner cup 102. Figure
   lB shows a section through the same cup assembly 100 (in exploded form for
   clarity).
25 The inner cup 102 comprises a generally frusto-conical sidewall 106 and a base
   portion 108 that, together, define a recess 110 for containing e.g. a liquid. The
   sidewall and the base may be formed from a composite. The base portion 108
                                              9

   comprises a generally planar body and a circumferential projection or lip that
   protrudes downwardly (in use) from the planar body. An in use lower edge 112 of
   the sidewall 106 is folded over this lip, and then the lip and folded portion of
   sidewall 106 are rolled together to form a liquid tight seal at the base 108. The
 5 inner cup 102 may also comprise a barrier coating (at least on an interior surface
   thereof) to prevent liquid leaking from the recess.
   An in use upper edge 114 of the sidewall 106, opposite the lower edge 112, is
   rolled so as to form a lip of the inner cup 102. Among other things, this provides
   structural rigidity to the inner cup 102 and also facilitates attachment of a lid to
10 the inner cup 102.
   The sleeve 104 is wrapped around the sidewall 106 of the inner cup 102 and
   comprises two layers: an outer layer 116 that forms an external layer of the cup
   assembly 100, and a middle layer 118 sandwiched between the sidewall 106 of the
   inner cup 102 and the outer layer 116.
15 The outer layer 116 is formed of stretchable paper. The outer layer may be
   formed from a composite. In forming the composite, two or more layers of
   stretchable paper are intimately connected. The stretchable paper may have a
   stretchability of at least 5% in the machine direction (MD) and cross direction
   (CD) when measured according to ISO 1924/3. Alternatively, the stretchable
20 paper may have a stretchability at least 13% in the machine direction (MD) and
   7% in the cross direction (CD) when measured according to ISO 1924/3. In
   general the stretchability of the paper of the outer layer 116 may be outside of
   these ranges so long as it is sufficient to allow embossing and/or debossing.
   The outer layer 116 is embossed and debossed so that it comprises a plurality of
25 raised portions 120 (e.g. raised by approximately 2-3 mm). Unlike corrugation,
   embossing and debossing allows the raised portions 120 to be arranged in a non
   repeating manner. This allows the raised portions to be arranged in such a way
   that they form indicia (e.g. logos, branding, text, images, etc). This indicia may
   be functional in nature (e.g. it may depict a warning to a user) or may be aesthetic
                                               10

   in nature so as to enhance the aesthetics of the cup assembly 100 and make the
   cup assembly 100 more attractive to e.g. a consumer. In alternative embodiments,
   the outer layer may be a composite (as discussed below in relation to Figs. 5A and
   5B).
 5 Other than forming indicia, the raised portions 120 may be arranged so as to
   provide an ergonomic surface for a user of the cup assembly 100. For example,
   the raised portions 120 may be arranged to provide finger and/or thumb grips.
   Similarly, the raised portions 120 may provide a textured surface that improves
   the grip of the surface of the outer layer 116 and facilitates handling of the cup
10 assembly 100.
   The raised portions 120 also form air gaps or pockets 122 between the outer and
   middle layers. The air pockets 122 can increase the overall thermal conductance
   of the sleeve 104 so as to insulate a user's hand from cold or hot substances stored
   within the recess 110 of the inner cup 102, thereby increasing user comfort when
15 handling the cup assembly 100.
   The middle layer 118 is formed of a thicker paper than the outer layer 116. The
   middle layer may also be formed as a composite. In forming the composite, two
   or more layers are intimately connected. This thicker paper provides a stiffer
   backing to the outer layer 116 and offers further support to the sleeve 104. The
20 middle layer 118 also separates the outer layer 116 from the inner cup 102 which,
   again, helps to thermally insulate a user's hand from substances stored within the
   recess 110 of the inner cup 102. Although not apparent from the figures, the
   middle layer can be scored so as to create ridges that form further air pockets
   between the middle layer 118 and the inner cup 102, and between the middle layer
25 118 and the outer layer 116.
   The embossed outer layer 116 (i.e. including the indicia) of stretchable paper can
   improve the visual aesthetics of the cup assembly 100 (e.g. increasing the
   marketability of the cup assembly 100 and its contents). However, such
   stretchable paper can also present difficulties in manufacturing and is not
                                              11

   necessarily suited to conventional manufacturing techniques (i.e. using known
   equipment in a known manner). This may especially be the case where the cup
   assembly 100 comprises a middle layer 118 intermediate the outer (stretchable)
   layer 116 and the inner cup 102. For example, passing an inner cup 102 through a
 5 wrapping process twice (i.e. to wrap two layers around the inner cup) can be
   expensive, complicated, time consuming and, in some cases, not possible.
   One way of addressing such difficulties is by way of the bonding arrangement of
   the presently illustrated embodiment. As is more apparent from Figures 2A and
   2B, the middle 218 and outer layers 216 are bonded together to form the sleeve
10 204. These figures show a sleeve 204 (similar to that shown in Figures 1A and
   1B) in an unwrapped condition. Figure 2A, in particular, shows the undersides or
   inner surfaces of the outer 216 and middle 218 layers of the sleeve 204 prior to
   being bonded to one another.
   To perform the bonding, a hot melt adhesive is applied to the outer 216 and
15 middle 218 layers. The bonding of these layers 216, 218 is subsequently
   performed by way of ultrasonic welding (i.e. which cures the adhesive). The
   application of adhesive is limited to a small area (i.e. bonding region) of the
   middle 218 and outer 216 layers. In particular, the adhesive is applied in two
   bands or strips: a first strip 226 that extends along an end of the outer layer 216,
20 and a second strip 228 that extends along an end of the middle layer 218 (i.e.
   running perpendicular to the circumference of the inner cup 202).
   Minimising the quantity of adhesive 226, 228 that is used to bond the layers 216,
   218 can provide a number of beneficial effects. For example, it can reduce the
   cost (e.g. of adhesive) and time to produce the cup assembly 200. It can also
25 reduce heat transfer between the layers 216, 218, which may provide the cup
   assembly 200 with greater insulation properties. That the strips of adhesive 226,
   228 are limited to the ends of the layers 216, 118 may also mean that damage to,
   or deterioration of, (e.g. by compression) the raised portions 120 (not shown)
   during manufacture is limited.
                                               12

   As is apparent from Figure 2B, after the adhesive is applied, the outer 216 and
   middle 218 layers are placed on top of one another and are aligned. The middle
   layer 218 is smaller than the outer layer 216 such that its edges are set back (i.e.
   offset) from the edges of the outer layer 218. At this point, the layers 216, 218 are
 5 not bonded to one another. In order for the bonding to occur they are wrapped so
   as to be formed into a cylindrical or frusto-conical shape (e.g. around a template)
   and so that the ends of the sleeve 204 overlap.
   Figures 3A and 3B illustrate a sleeve 304 that is bonded in this way and is formed
   from wrapped outer 316 and middle 318 layers. These layers 316, 318 are
10 wrapped so as to form a hollow interior that generally corresponds, in size and
   shape, to an inner cup (not shown). As suggested above, the layers 316, 318 may
   be wrapped around a template to form this shape, or may be wrapped around an
   inner cup. In this way the layers 316, 318 form the sleeve 304 that can then be
   arranged around the inner cup (i.e. by receipt of the inner cup within the hollow
15 interior of the sleeve 304).
   The sleeve 304 comprises upper 330 and lower edges 332 and opposite ends 334,
   336 that extend between these edges 330, 332. The shape of the sleeve 304 is
   such that its ends 334, 336 overlap when wrapped in this manner. This is shown
   in detail in Figure 3B. This overlapping arrangement means that the ends 334,
20 336 of the sleeve 304 can be bonded to one another along a single strip, band or
   (bonded) region extending between the upper 330 and lower 332 edges.
   As may be evident from Figure 3B, the positioning of the adhesive strips 326, 328
   is such that there is no adhesive disposed between the middle 318 and outer 316
   layers at one end 334 of the sleeve 304. In practice, the ultrasonic welding causes
25 the adhesive 326, 328 to soften and spread between these layers 318, 316 (e.g.
   through the pores of the layers 316, 318) so that all of the layers 316, 318 (at both
   overlapped ends 334 336 of the sleeve 304) become bonded to one another along
   the single bonded strip or region. However, even if the middle 318 and outer 316
   layers are not bonded at this end 334, the loose portion will remain held once an
                                             13

   inner cup is received within the sleeve 304 (i.e. by way of it being sandwiched
   between the outer layer 316 and the inner cup).
   In addition to being wrapped around an inner cup, the sleeve 304 can be bonded to
   an inner cup along a circumferential bonding region between the inner cup and the
 5 inner surface of the sleeve 304. Although the sleeve 304 is somewhat retained on
   the inner cup by its wrapping therearound, this further bonding ensure that the
   sleeve 304 does not slide off the inner cup.
   Figure 4 illustrates a method 438 for producing a cup assembly that is the same or
   similar to that described above. The method comprises cutting 440 an outer layer
10 blank 416 for the cup assembly 400 (e.g. from a roll of stretchable paper 442) and
   embossing and/or debossing the outer layer 416 according to a predetermined
   design (e.g. including indicia, finger grips, etc. as described above).
   Concurrently, a middle layer blank 418 is cut from a roll of scored paper 444. In
   alternative embodiments, the outer layer and the middle layer may be formed
15 from a composite layer.
   Once cut, strips of adhesive 426, 428 are applied 446 to the inner-surfaces of the
   outer 416 and middle 418 layers. These layers 416, 418 are then turned over 448,
   placed on top of one another 450 and aligned 452. This set of actions does not
   cause the layers 416, 418 to be bonded to one another.
20 Rather the bonding 454 is performed by wrapping the layers 416, 418 around a
   e.g. template such that ends of the layers overlap. Ultrasonic welding is then
   performed on these overlapped ends so as to form a generally cylindrical or
   frusto-conical sleeve 404 with a bonded region in the form of a narrow strip at the
   overlapped ends.
25 The sleeve 404 is subsequently arranged 456 around an inner cup 402, which may
   be produced using known (automated or manual) cup-making processes. Prior to
   doing this, adhesive is applied circumferentially around the inner cup 402 such
   that the inner cup 402 becomes bonded to the sleeve 404 once arranged
   therearound.
                                              14

   As should be clear, the above described process may be performed by known cup
   manufacturing equipment and/or known cup-manufacturing equipment that has
   been modified so as to be suitable for producing the described cup assembly.
   Further, variations and modifications may be made to the parts previously
 5 described without departing from the spirit or ambit of the disclosure.
   For example the middle layer may not be in the form of a sheet material - it may
   instead be a spray on coating. Such a coating may be particularly chosen for low
   heat conductance. Similarly, the middle layer may be formed of materials other
   than paper (e.g. a polymer based material).
10 The bonding region may not be limited to the ends of the outer and middle layers,
   and may also incorporate further regions at the periphery of the outer layer (e.g. at
   upper and lower edges of the outer layer).
   The middle layer may also be formed of stretchable paper and may have a form
   that is essentially a reflection of the outer layer. In this way air pocket may be
15 formed between the "raised" (i.e. embossed or debossed) portions of the middle
   and outer layers, and these layers may meet at the non-raised portions.
   Additionally, air pockets may be formed between the middle layer and the inner
   cup (when the sleeve is arranged therearound).
   A further embodiment is illustrated in Figs. 5A and 5B. The primary difference
20 between the further embodiment 510 and the first embodiment is that each of the
   outer layer 516 and the middle layer 518 is formed as a composite. Like reference
   numerals are used for like features, and we included the prefix "5"to indicate the
   features of the further embodiment.
   The outer layer in the form of the outer layer composite 516 may be formed from
25 two or more layers intimately connected, bound together, or integrally formed
   across the extent of the outer layer. Once so connected, the two or more layers
   effectively become "sub-layers" of the outer layer composite 516. In the
   illustrated embodiment, the composite outer layer 516 is formed from stretchable
                                               15

   paper layers. The illustrated outer layer composite 516 is also formed from two
   layers, an external outer layer 530 and an internal outer layer 532. Both the
   external outer layer 530 and the internal outer layer 532 are formed from
   stretchable paper that is intimately connected or bonded together. As such, to the
 5 naked eye the outer layer composite 516 appears as one layer and to the hand the
   outer layer composite 516 feels as though it is one layer.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the external outer layer 530 may be bleached and
   coloured to contain branding in the form of logos, slogans, messages, etc. The
   purpose of this branding may be to associate the product with a particular brand,
10 and/or to have an effect on a consumer's perception of the product. The internal
   outer layer 532 is natural kraft paper.
   Together, the external outer layer 530 and the internal outer layer 532 include
   raised portions 120 (e.g., embossing and/or debossing) as discussed in relation to
   Figs. 1A and 1B. The outer layer composite 516 helps slow down water
15 penetration and giving the raised portions 120 greater support during any
   condensation.
   The middle layer in the form of the middle layer composite 518 may be formed
   from a plurality of layers. The middle layer composite 518 is in the form of
   corrugated paper to create air pockets as discussed in relation to Figs. 1A and 1B
20 above. The corrugated paper composite 518 is formed by intimately connecting
   or bonding a layer having corrugations 534 and a liner layer 536. In this way, the
   layers 534, 536 cannot be separated easily and function as one layer. Both the
   corrugated layer 534 and the liner layer 536 are made of kraft paper. This
   arrangement arrests sweating of the cup assembly 500, particularly where the cup
25 assembly 500 is being used to contain cold materials. In alternative embodiments,
   the middle layer composite is not necessarily a corrugated paper middle layer
   composite and may be in the form of any middle layer composite using any
   combination of the materials discussed herein.
                                             16

   The middle layer composite 518 and the outer layer composite 516 are bonded
   together to form a sleeve 504, as is illustrated and discussed in relation to Figures
   2A, 2B and Figs. 3A, 3B.
   The sleeve 504 is subsequently arranged around an inner cup 102 as discussed
 5 above in relation to Fig. 4 for producing a cup assembly 500. In the method
   discussed above in relation to Fig. 4, the composite outer layer blank 516 is cut
   from a roll of stretchable paper 542, and subsequently the outer layer composite
   516 is embossed and/or debossed according to a predetermined design (e.g.
   including indicia, finger grips, etc. as described above). Concurrently, the middle
10 layer composite blank 418 is cut from a roll of scored paper 444
   The composite (i.e., both the outer composite and the middle composite) is
   formed first and then cut to respectively form the outer layer blank and the middle
   layer blank. Both layers of the outer layer composite have the stretchable paper
   qualities. The internal outer layer 532 of the stretchable paper layer 516 assists in
15 slowing down the water penetration and gives the external outer layer 530 that
   includes embossing greater support during condensation.
   In alternative embodiments, the method may include intimately adhering the
   external outer layer and the internal outer layer prior to cutting the outer layer
   blank. The method may also include intimately adhering the corrugated middle
20 layer to the liner middle layer prior to cutting the middle layer blank.
   In further alternative embodiments, the inner cup may also be formed as a
   composite as described herein.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
25 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
   "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the
   stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
   various embodiments of the invention.
                                              17

                                       CLAIMS
1.      A cup assembly comprising:
        an inner cup;
        an embossed and/or debossed outer layer formed of stretchable paper; and
        a middle layer disposed between a sidewall of the inner cup and the outer
        layer.
2.      A cup assembly according to claim 1 wherein the outer layer and middle
layer are bonded to one another at one or more bonded regions, and remain
detached from one another at one or more free regions.
3.      A cup assembly according to claim 2 wherein the one or more bonded
regions are disposed at a periphery of the outer layer, and the one or more free
regions are disposed at a central portion of the outer layer.
4.      A cup assembly according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the middle layer and
outer layer form a sleeve that is wrapped around the sidewall of the inner cup.
5.      A cup assembly according to claim 4 wherein the sleeve comprises:
        in use upper and lower edges that extend at least partially around the
        circumference of the inner cup; and
        opposite ends that extend between the upper and lower edges.
6.      A cup assembly according to claim 5 wherein the one or more bonded
regions are disposed at or proximate the ends of the sleeve.
7.      A cup assembly according to claim 6 wherein the ends of the sleeve
overlap, and the one or more bonded regions are disposed at the overlapped ends
of the sleeve.
8.      A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
outer layer is a composite.
                                          18

9.      A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
outer layer is thermoformed stretchable paper.
10.     A cup assembly according to either claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the outer
layer is a composite, and the outer layer composite is formed from two or more
layers.
11.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
stretchability of the stretchable paper is at least 5% in the machine direction (MD)
and the cross direction (CD) when measured according to ISO 1924/3.
12.     A cup according to claim 11 wherein the stretchability of the stretchable
paper is at least 13% in the machine direction (MD) and 7% in the cross direction
(CD) when measured according to ISO 1924/3.
13.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
inner cup comprises a base portion connected to the sidewall, the base portion and
sidewall defining a liquid containing recess.
14.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein air
pockets are formed between the outer layer and the middle layer.
15.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein air
pockets are formed between the middle layer and the inner cup.
16.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
outer layer comprises one or more embossed and/or debossed portions arranged to
form one or more indicia.
17.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
outer layer comprises one or more raised embossed and/or debossed portions
arranged in a non-repeating manner.
                                           19

18.     A cup assembly according to claim 16 or 17, when dependent on claim 2,
wherein the one or more embossed and/or debossed portions are disposed at a free
region of the outer layer.
19.     A cup assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
middle layer is a composite.
20.     A cup assembly according to claim 19 wherein the middle layer composite
is formed from two or more layers.
21.     A method of forming a cup assembly, the method comprising:
        bonding an embossed and/or debossed outer layer formed of stretchable
        paper to a middle layer to form a sleeve;
        arranging the sleeve around an inner cup to form the cup assembly.
22.     A method according to claim 21 comprising embossing and/or debossing
the stretchable paper layer.
23.     A method according to claim 21 or 22 wherein the bonding is performed
such that the outer and middle layers are bonded at one or more bonded regions,
and remain detached from one another at one or more free regions.
24.     A method according to claim 23 wherein the one or more bonded regions
are disposed at a periphery of the outer layer, and the one or more free regions are
disposed at a central portion of the outer layer.
25.     A method according to claim 23 or 24 wherein the sleeve comprises:
        in use upper and lower edges that extend at least partially around the
        circumference of the inner cup when the sleeve is arranged therearound;
        and
        opposite ends that extend between the upper and lower edges.
                                          20

26.     A method according to claim 25 wherein the bonding is performed such
that the one or more bonded regions are disposed at or proximate the ends of the
sleeve.
27.     A method according to claim 25 or 26 comprising the step of overlapping
the ends of the sleeve and bonding the overlapped ends to define a generally
cylindrical hollow interior for receipt of the inner cup.
28.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 27 wherein the outer layer
is a composite.
29.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 28 wherein the outer layer
is thermoformed stretchable paper.
30.     A method according to either claim 28 or claim 29 wherein the outer layer
is a composite layer and the outer layer composite is formed from two or more
layers.
31.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 30 wherein the
stretchability of the stretchable paper is at least 5% in the machine direction (MD)
and the cross direction (CD) when measured according to ISO 1924/3.
32.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 31 wherein the
stretchability of the stretchable paper is at least 13% in the machine direction
(MD) and 7% in the cross direction (CD) when measured according to ISO
1924/3.
33.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 32 wherein the step of
embossing and/or debossing comprises forming one or more raised portions that
are arranged so as to define one or more indicia.
34.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 33 wherein the step of
embossing and/or debossing comprises forming one or more raised portions that
are arranged in a non-repeating manner.
                                           21

35.     A method according to claim 27 or 28, when dependent on claim 18,
wherein the one or more embossed portions are formed at a free region.
36.     A method according to any one of claims 21 to 35 wherein the middle
layer is a composite.
                                       22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
