METHODS FOR DETECTING DIHYDROTESTOSTERONE BY MASS
SPECTROMETRY
ABSTRACT
Provided are methods for determining the amount of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a sample
using mass spectrometry. The methods generally involve ionizing DHT in a sample and
detecting and quantifying the amount of the ion to determine the amount of DHT in the sample.

                                                 1
         METHODS FOR DETECTING DIHYDROTESTOSTERONE BY MASS
                                      SPECTROMETRY
              CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENT APPLICATIONS
[0001) This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015215932
which in turn is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2009302641 (national
phase of PCT/US2009/059090) and claims priority to U.S. Application No. 12/272,663 filed
November 17, 2008, and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/103,202 filed
October 6, 2008, all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The invention relates to the detection of dihydrotestosterone (DHT). In a particular
aspect, the invention relates to methods for detecting dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by mass
spectrometry.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003) The following description of the background of the invention is provided simply as an
aid in understanding the invention and is not admitted to describe or constitute prior art to the
invention.
[0004] Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) [(17B-hydroxy-5a-androstan-3-one)] is a steroid hormone
with a molecular weight of 290.4 Daltons. DHT is a potent androgen synthesized by
peripheral tissues from testosterone. Excessive DHT secretion can produce acne, hirsutism
and virilization via conversion to testosterone. DHT is a causal agent in prostate hyperplasia
and measurements in blood can be used to assess compliance and response to inhibitors of
testosterone to DHT conversion.
[0005] Mass spectrometric methods for measuring DHT in a sample have been reported. See,
e.g., Chang, Y., et al. Analyst 2003, 128:363-8; Caruso, D., et al,Neurochem Int 2008,
52:560-8; Wang. C, et al. Steroids 2008, XXX:XXX-XXX j.steroids.2008.05.004); Zhao, ,
M., et al, Steroids 2004, 69:721 -6; Janzen. N., et al,J Chroma B 2008, 861 : 1 17-22; Licea
Perez, H., et al, Steroids 2008, 73:601- 10; Kashiwagi, B., et al, JAndrology 2005, 26:586
91; Kashiwagi, B., et al, Urology 2005, 66:218-23; Umera, M., et al, Cancer Sci 2007, 99:81
86; and Mohler, et al, U.S. patent application no. 1 1/973, 127 (filed October 8, 2007).
(14002696 1):GGG

                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 100061 The present invention provides methods for detecting the amount of dihydrotestosterone
 (DHT) in a sample by mass spectrometry, including tandem mass spectrometry. Preferably, the
 methods of the invention do not include derivatizing DHT in a sample prior to the mass
 spectrometry analysis.
 100071 In one aspect, methods are provided for determining the amount of underivatized
 dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a body fluid sample. Methods of this aspect include: (a) purifying
 DHT in a body fluid sample by solid phase extraction; (b) ionizing DHT from the body fluid
 sample to produce one or more DHT ions detectable by mass spectrometry, wherein the
produced ions are selected from the group consisting of a DIIT precursor ion with a mass to
 charge ratio of 291.10   0.50, and one or more DHT fragment ions selected from the group
 consisting of 255.20 + 0.50 and 79.20 ± 0.50; and (c) detecting the amount of one or more DHT
ions by mass spectrometry. Once the amount of the one or more DHT ions is measured, the
amount of DHT ion(s) is used to calculate the amount of underivatized DHT in the test sample.
In some embodiments, the mass spectrometry is tandem mass spectrometry. In some
embodiments, solid phase extraction and mass spectrometric analysis are conducted in an on-line
fashion, In some embodiments, solid phase extraction is conducted as high turbulence liquid
chromatography (HTLC). In some embodiments, the methods further comprising purifying
DH T in a body fluid sample prior to mass spectrometry with high performance liquid
chromatography (HPLC); preferably with on-line processing. In some embodiments, the body
fluid sample is plasma or serum. In some embodiments, the methods have a limit of quantitation
within the range of 5 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive. In some embodiments, the amount of one or
more DHT ion(s) detected by mass spectrometry is used to calculate the amount of underivatized
DHT in a test sample by comparison to an internal standard; preferably 16, 16, 17-d 3
dihydrotestosterone. The features of the embodiments listed above may be combined without
limitation for use in methods of the present invention.
100081 In a second aspect, methods are provided for determining the amount of underivatized
dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a test sample by mass spectrometry. Methods of this aspect
include: (a) purifying DHT in a test sample with high turbulence liquid chromatography
(ITLC); (b) ionizing DHT from a test sample to produce one or more DHT ions detectable by
                                                 2

 mass spectrometry; and (c) detecting the amount of one or more DHT ions by mass
 spectrometry. In these methods, the amount of the DHI' ion(s) measured is used to calculate the
 amount of DH' in the test sample. In some embodiments, the mass spectrometry is tandem mass
 spectrometry. In some embodiments, purifying DIIT in a test sample comprises purifying with
 high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC); preferably configured for on-line processing.
 In some embodiments, the test sample is a body fluid sample; preferably plasma or serum. In
 some embodiments, the DHT ions detectable by mass spectrometry include one or more ions
 selected from the group consisting of ions with a mass/charge ratio of 291.10   ± 0.50, 255.20  ±
 0.50, and 79.20 ± 0.50. In some embodiments, the step of ionizing DHT includes generating a
 precursor ion with a mass/charge ratio of 291.10 + 0.50, and generating one or more fragment
 ions selected from the group consisting of ions with a mass/charge ratio of 255.20   +0.50  and
 79.20 + 0.50. In some embodiments, the methods have a limit of quantitation within the range of
 5.0 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive. In some embodiments, the amount of one or more DHT
 ion(s) detected by mass spectrometry is used to determine the amount of underivatized DHT in a
 test sample by comparison to an internal standard; preferably 16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone.
 The features of the embodiments listed above may be combined without limitation for use in
methods of the present invention.
 10009] In at third aspect, methods are provided for determining the amount of underivatized
dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a body fluid sample by tandem mass spectrometry. Methods of
this aspect include: (a) purifying DHT from a body fluid sample by high turbulence liquid
chromatography (HTLC); (b) generating a precursor ion of said DHT having a mass/charge ratio
of 291.10  ± 0.50; (c) generating one or more fragment ions of a precursor ion, wherein at least
one of said one or more fragment ions comprise a fragment ion selected from the group of
fragment ions having a mass/charge ratio of 255.20 + 0.50 and 79.20 1 0.50; and (d) detecting
the amount of one or more of said ions generated in step (b) or (c) or both. The amount of ions
detected is used to calculate the amount of underivatized DHT in a body fluid sample. In some
embodiments, purifying DHT from a test sample further comprises high performance liquid
chromatography (HPLC); preferably configured for on-line processing. In some embodiments,
the body fluid sample is plasma or serum. In some embodiments, the methods have a limit of
quantitation within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive. In some embodiments, the
amount of one or more DHT ion(s) detected by mass spectrometry is used to calculate the
                                                 3

 amount of underivatized DHT in the test sample by comparison to an internal standard;
 preferably 16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone. The features of the embodiments listed above may
 be combined without limitation for use in methods of the present invention.
 [00101    Methods of the present invention involve the combination of liquid chromatography
 with mass spectrometry. In preferred embodiments, the liquid chromatography is IIPLC. One
 preferred embodiment utilizes HPLC alone or in combination with one or more purification
 methods such as for example HTLC and/or protein precipitation and filtration, to purify DHT in
 samples. In another preferred embodiment, the mass spectrometry is tandem mass spectrometry
 (MS/MS).
 [00111    In certain preferred embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, mass spectrometry is
 performed in positive ion mode. Alternatively, mass spectrometry is performed in negative ion
 mode. Various ionization sources, including for example atmospheric pressure chemical
 ionization (APCI) or electrospray ionization (ESI), may be used in embodiments of the present
 invention. In certain preferred embodiments, DHT is measured using APCI in positive ion
 mode.
 [0012]   In preferred embodiments, DHT ions detectable in a mass spectrometer are selected
 from the group consisting of positive ions with a mass/charge ratio (m/z) of 291.10 ± 0.50,
 255.20  ±  0.50, and 79.20 ± 0.50. In particularly preferred embodiments, a DHIT precursor ion
has m/z of 291.10 + 0.50, and one or more fragment ions are selected from the group consisting
of ions having m/z of 255.20     +0.50 and 79.20  +0.50.
 100131   In preferred embodiments, a separately detectable internal standard is provided in the
sample, the amount of which is also determined in the sample. In these embodiments, all or a
portion of both the endogenous DHT and the internal standard present in the sample is ionized to
produce a plurality of ions detectable in a mass spectrometer, and one or more ions produced
from each arc detected by mass spectrometry.
[00141    A preferred internal standard is 16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone (16, 16, 17-d 3 DHT).
In preferred embodiments, the internal standard ions detectable in a mass spectrometer are
selected from the group consisting of positive ions with m/z of 294.10     ±0.50  and 258.20    0.50.
In particularly preferred embodiments, an internal standard precursor ion has m/z of 294.10     ±
0.50; and an internal standard fragment ion has m/z of 258.20 ± 0.50.
                                                   4

 10015]   In preferred embodiments, the presence or amount of the DHT ion is related to the
 presence or amount of DHT in a test sample by comparison to a reference such as 16, 16, 17-d      3
 dihydrotestosterone.
 100161   In certain preferred embodiments, the limit of quantitation (LOQ) of DHT is within the
 range of 5.0 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive; preferably within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 100
 ng/dL, inclusive; preferably within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 50 ng/dL, inclusive; preferably
 within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 25 ng/dL, inclusive; preferably within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to
 15 ng/dL, inclusive; preferably within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 10 ng/dL, inclusive; preferably
 about 5.0 ng/dL.
 10017]   As used herein, unless otherwise stated, the singular fomis "a," "an," and "the" include
plural reference. Thus, for example, a reference to "a protein" includes a plurality of protein
molecules.
 100181   As used herein, "derivatizing" means reacting two molecules to form a new molecule.
 Derivatizing a molecule of an androgen, such as a molecule of DIIT, may be carried out with
numerous derivatization reagents well known in the art. See, for example, Kashiwagi, B., et al.,
JAndrology 2005, 26:586-91, and Kashiwagi, B., et al., Urology 2005, 66:218-23, which reports
derivatization of DHT with fluoro- 1-methylpyridinium-P-tolulene sulfonate prior to extraction.
As used herein, "underivatized" means not derivatized. Thus, dihydrotestosterone (DHT),
without indication of derivatization, is underivatized DHT.
 10019] As used herein, the tenn "purification" or "purifying" does not refer to removing all
materials from the sample other than the analyte(s) of interest. Instead, purification refers to a
procedure that enriches the amount of one or more analytes of interest relative to other
components in the sample that may interfere with detection of the analyte of interest.
Purification of the sample by various means may allow relative reduction of one or more
interfering substances, e.g., one or more substances that may or may not interfere with the
detection of selected D IT parent or daughter ions by mass spectrometry. Relative reduction as
this term is used does not require that any substance, present with the analyte of interest in the
material to be purified, is entirely removed by purification.
100201 As used herein, the term "test sample" refers to any sample that may contain DHT. As
used herein, the term "body fluid" means any fluid that can be isolated from the body of an
                                                  5

individual. For example, "body fluid" may include blood, plasma, serum, bile, saliva, urine,
tears, perspiration, and the like.
[0021] As used herein, the term "chromatography" refers to a process in which a chemical
mixture carried by a liquid or gas is separated into components as a result of differential
distribution of the chemical entities as they flow around or over a stationary liquid or solid phase.
[0022]    As used herein, the term "liquid chromatography" or "LC" means a process of selective
retardation of one or more components of a fluid solution as the fluid uniformly percolates
through a column of a finely divided substance, or through capillary passageways. The
retardation results from the distribution of the components of the mixture between one or more
stationary phases and the bulk fluid, (i.e., mobile phase), as this fluid moves relative to the
stationary phase(s). Examples of "liquid chromatography" include reverse phase liquid
chromatography (RPLC), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and high turbulence
liquid chromatography (HTLC).
[0023]    As used herein, the term "high performance liquid chromatography" or "HPLC" refers
to liquid chromatography in which the degree of separation is increased by forcing the mobile
phase under pressure through a stationary phase, typically a densely packed column.
[0024] As used herein, the term "high turbulence liquid chromatography" or "HTLC" refers to a
form of chromatography that utilizes turbulent flow of the material being assayed through the
column packing as the basis for performing the separation. HTLC has been applied in the
preparation of samples containing two unnamed drugs prior to analysis by mass spectrometry.
See, e.g., Zimmer et al., J ChromatogrA 854: 23-35 (1999); see also, U.S. Patents No.
5,968,367, 5,919,368, 5,795,469, and 5,772,874, which further explain HTLC. Persons of
ordinary skill in the art understand "turbulent flow". When fluid flows slowly and smoothly, the
flow is called "laminar flow". For example, fluid moving through an HPLC column at low flow
rates is laminar. In laminar flow the motion of the particles of fluid is orderly with particles
moving generally in straight lines. At faster velocities, the inertia of the water overcomes fluid
frictional forces and turbulent flow results. Fluid not in contact with the irregular boundary
"outruns" that which is slowed by friction or deflected by an uneven surface. When a fluid is
flowing turbulently, it flows in eddies and whirls (or vortices), with more "drag" than when the
flow is laminar. Many references are available for assisting in determining when fluid flow is
                                                   6

 laminar or turbulent (e.g., Turbulent Flow Analysis: Measurement and Prediction, P.S. Bernard
 & J.M. Wallace, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., (2000); An Introduction to Turbulent Flow, Jean
 Mathieu & Julian Scott, Cambridge University Press (2001)).
  10025] As used herein, the term "gas chromatography" or "GC" refers to chromatography in
 which the sample mixture is vaporized and injected into a stream of carrier gas (as nitrogen or
 helium) moving through a column containing a stationary phase composed of a liquid or a
 particulate solid and is separated into its component compounds according to the affinity of the
 compounds for the stationary phase.
 [0026]   As used herein, the term "large particle column" or "extraction column" refers to a
 chromatography column containing an average particle diameter greater than about 50       sm.   As
 used in this context, the term "about" means ± 10%.
 [0027]   As used herein, the term "analytical column" refers to a chromatography column having
 sufficient chromatographic plates to effect a separation of materials in a sample that elute from
 the column sufficient to allow a determination of the presence or amount of an analyte. Such
 columns are often distinguished from "extraction columns", which have the general purpose of
 separating or extracting retained material from non-retained materials in order to obtain a
 purified sample for further analysis. As used in this context, the term "about" means ± 10%. In
 a preferred embodiment the analytical column contains particles of about 4 pm in diameter.
 [0028]   As used herein, the term "on-line" or "inline", for example as used in "on-line
 automated fashion" or "on-line extraction" refers to a procedure performed without the need for
 operator intervention. In contrast, the term "off-line" as used herein refers to a procedure
requiring manual intervention of an operator. Thus, if samples are subjected to precipitation, and
the supernatants are then manually loaded into an autosampler, the precipitation and loading
steps are off-line from the subsequent steps. In various embodiments of the methods, one or
more steps may be performed in an on-line automated fashion.
[0029]    As used herein, the tern "mass spectrometry" or "MS" refers to an analytical technique
to identify compounds by their mass. MS refers to methods of filtering, detecting, and
measuring ions based on their mass-to-charge ratio, or "m/z". MS technology generally includes
(1) ionizing the compounds to form charged compounds; and (2) detecting the molecular weight
of the charged compounds and calculating a mass-to-charge ratio. The compounds may be
                                                  7

ionized and detected by any suitable means. A "mass spectrometer" generally includes an
ionizer and an ion detector. In general, one or more molecules of interest are ionized, and the
ions are subsequently introduced into a mass spectrographic instrument where, due to a
combination of magnetic and electric fields, the ions follow a path in space that is dependent
upon mass ("in") and charge ("z"). See, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 6,204,500, entitled "Mass
Spectrometry From Surfaces;" 6,107,623, entitled "Methods and Apparatus for Tandem Mass
Spectrometry;" 6,268,144, entitled "DNA Diagnostics Based On Mass Spectrometry;"
6,124,137, entitled "Surface-Enhanced Photolabile Attachment And Release For Desorption And
Detection Of Analytes;" Wright et a/., Prostate Cancer and ProstaticDiseases 1999, 2: 264-76;
and Merchant and Weinberger, Electrophoresis2000, 21: 1164-67.
 100301 As used herein, the term "operating in negative ion mode" refers to those mass
spectrometry methods where negative ions are generated and detected. The term "operating in
positive ion mode" as used herein, refers to those mass spectrometry methods where positive
ions are generated and detected.
 [00311 As used herein, the term "ionization" or "ionizing" refers to the process of generating an
analyte ion having a net electrical charge equal to one or more electron units. Negative ions are
those having a net negative charge of one or more electron units, while positive ions are those
having a net positive charge of one or more electron units.
 [00321 As used herein, the term "electron ionization" or "El" refers to methods in which an
analyte of interest in a gaseous or vapor phase interacts with a flow of electrons. Impact of the
electrons with the analyte produces analyte ions, which may then be subjected to a mass
spectrometry technique.
100331 As used herein, the term "chemical ionization" or "CI" refers to methods in which a
reagent gas (e.g. ammonia) is subjected to electron impact, and analyte ions are formed by the
interaction of reagent gas ions and analyte molecules.
[00341 As used herein, the term "fast atom bombardment" or "FAB" refers to methods in which
a beam of high energy atoms (often Xe or Ar) impacts a non-volatile sample, desorbing and
ionizing molecules contained in the sample. Test samples are dissolved in a viscous liquid
matrix such as glycerol, thioglycerol, m-nitrobenzyl alcohol, 18-crown-6 crown ether, 2
                                                  8

nitrophenyloctyl ether, sulfolane, diethanolamine, and triethanolamine. The choice of an
appropriate matrix for a compound or sample is an empirical process.
 [0035]  As used herein, the term "matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization" or "MALDI"
refers to methods in which a non-volatile sample is exposed to laser irradiation, which desorbs
and ionizes analytes in the sample by various ionization pathways, including photo-ionization,
protonation, deprotonation, and cluster decay. For MALDI, the sample is mixed with an energy
absorbing matrix, which facilitates desorption of analyte molecules.
 [0036] As used herein, the term "surface enhanced laser desorption ionization" or "SELDI"
refers to another method in which a non-volatile sample is exposed to laser irradiation, which
desorbs and ionizes analytes in the sample by various ionization pathways, including photo
ionization, protonation, deprotonation, and cluster decay. For SELDI, the sample is typically
bound to a surface that preferentially retains one or more analytes of interest. As in MALDI, this
process may also employ an energy-absorbing material to facilitate ionization.
10037]   As used herein, the term "electrospray ionization" or "ESI," refers to methods in which a
solution is passed along a short length of capillary tube, to the end of which is applied a high
positive or negative electric potential. Solution reaching the end of the tube is vaporized
(nebulized) into a jet or spray of very small droplets of solution in solvent vapor. This mist of
droplets flows through an evaporation chamber, which is heated slightly to prevent condensation
and to evaporate solvent. As the droplets get smaller the electrical surface charge density
increases until such time that the natural repulsion between like charges causes ions as well as
neutral molecules to be released.
[00381   As used herein, the term "atmospheric pressure chemical ionization" or "APCI," refers
to mass spectrometry methods that are similar to ESI; however, APCI produces ions by ion
molecule reactions that occur within a plasma at atmospheric pressure. The plasma is
maintained by an electric discharge between the spray capillary and a counter electrode. Then
ions are typically extracted into the mass analyzer by use of a set of differentially pumped
skimmer stages. A counterflow of dry and preheated N 2 gas may be used to improve removal of
solvent. The gas-phase ionization in APCI can be more effective than ESI for analyzing less
polar species.
                                                  9

 10039J The term "atmospheric pressure photoionization" or "APPI" as used herein refers to the
form of mass spectrometry where the mechanism for the photoionization of molecule M is
photon absorption and electron ejection to form the molecular ion M+. Because the photon
energy typically is just above the ionization potential, the molecular ion is less susceptible to
dissociation. In many cases it may be possible to analyze samples without the need for
chromatography, thus saving significant time and expense. In the presence of water vapor or
protic solvents, the molecular ion can extract H to form MH+. This tends to occur if M has a
high proton affinity. This does not affect quantitation accuracy because the sum of M+ and
MH+ is constant. Drug compounds in protic solvents are usually observed as MH+, whereas
nonpolar compounds such as naphthalene or testosterone usually form M+. See, e.g., Robb et
al., Anal. Chem. 2000, 72(15): 3653-3659.
 [0040] As used herein, the term "inductively coupled plasma" or "ICP" refers to methods in
which a sample interacts with a partially ionized gas at a sufficiently high temperature such that
most elements are atomized and ionized.
[0041]   As used herein, the term "field desorption" refers to methods in which a non-volatile test
sample is placed on an ionization surface, and an intense electric field is used to generate analyte
ions.
10042]   As used herein, the term "desorption" refers to the removal of an analyte from a surface
and/or the entry of an analyte into a gaseous phase. Laser desorption thermal desorption is a
technique wherein a sample containing the analyte is thermally desorbed into the gas phase by a
laser pulse. The laser hits the back of a specially made 96-well plate with a metal base. The laser
pulse heats the base and the heats causes the sample to transfer into the gas phase. The gas phase
sample is then drawn into the mass spectrometer.
10043] As used herein, the term "selective ion monitoring" is a detection mode for a mass
spectrometric instrument in which only ions within a relatively narrow mass range, typically
about one mass unit, are detected.
10044]   As used herein, "multiple reaction mode," sometimes known as "selected reaction
monitoring," is a detection mode for a mass spectrometric instrument in which a precursor ion
and one or more fragment ions are selectively detected.
                                                  10

[00451 As used herein, the term "limit of quantification", "limit of quantitation" or "LOQ"
refers to the point where measurements become quantitatively meaningful. The analyte response
at this LOQ is identifiable., discrete and reproducible with a relative standard deviation (RSD %)
of 20% and an accuracy of 80% to 120%.
[00461 As used herein, the tern "limit of detection" or "LOD" is the point at which the
measured value is larger than the uncertainty associated with it. The LOD is the point at which a
value is beyond the uncertainty associated with its measurement and is defined as two times the
RSD of the mean at the zero concentration.
[0047] As used herein, an "amount" of DHT in a body fluid sample refers generally to an
absolute value reflecting the mass of DHT detectable in volume of body fluid. However, an
amount also contemplates a relative amount in comparison to another DHT amount. For
example, an amount of DHT in a body fluid can be an amount which is greater than a control or
normal level of DHT normally present.
[0048] The term "about" as used herein in reference to quantitative measurements not including
the measurement of the mass of an ion, refers to the indicated value plus or minus 10%. Mass
spectrometry instruments can vary slightly in determining the mass of a given analyte. The term
"about" in the context of the mass of an ion or the mass/charge ratio of an ion refers to +/- 0.50
atomic mass unit.
[00491 The summary of the invention described above is non-limiting and other features and
advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of the
invention, and from the claims.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
100501 Figure 1 shows a plot of the coefficient of variation of assays of a blank and five
standards used to determine the limit of quantitation of the DHT assay. Details are discussed in
Example 5.
100511 Figure 2 shows the linearity of the quantitation of DHT in serially diluted stock samples
using an LC-MS/MS assay. Details are described in Example 6.
100521 Figures 3A and 3B show the correlation of DHT determination by an exemplary HPLC
MS method of the present invention with DHT determination by a reference radioimmunoassay
                                                  11

(RiA) method. The correlation shown in Figure 3A was determined by linear regression. The
correlation shown in Figure 3B was determined by Deming analysis. Details are described in
Example 10.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0053]   Methods of the present invention are described for measuring the amount of DHT in a
sample. More specifically, mass spectrometric methods are described for detecting and
quantifying DHT in a test sample. The methods may utilize high turbulence liquid
chromatography (HTLC), to perform a purification of selected analytes, and combine this
purification with methods of mass spectrometry (MS), thereby providing a high-throughput assay
system for detecting and quantifying DHT in a test sample. The preferred embodiments are
particularly well suited for application in large clinical laboratories for automated DHT assay.
[0054]   Suitable test samples for use in methods of the present invention include any test sample
that may contain the analyte of interest. In some preferred embodiments, a sample is a biological
sample; that is, a sample obtained from any biological source, such as an animal, a cell culture,
an organ culture, etc. In certain preferred embodiments, samples are obtained from a
mammalian animal, such as a dog, cat, horse, etc. Particularly preferred mammalian animals are
primates, most preferably male or female humans. Particularly preferred samples include bodily
fluids such as blood, plasma, serum, saliva, cerebrospinal fluid, or tissue samples. Such samples
may be obtained, for example, from a patient; that is, a living person, male or female, presenting
oneself in a clinical setting for diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment of a disease or condition. The
test sample is preferably obtained from a patient, for example, blood serum or plasma. A sample
volume of about 0.5 mL is preferred; however, samples of about 0.1 mL can be analyzed.
[0055]   The present invention contemplates kits for an DHT quantitation assay. A kit for an
DHT quantitation assay of the present invention may include a kit comprising an internal
standard, in amounts sufficient for at least one assay. Typically, the kits will also include
instructions recorded in a tangible form (e.g., contained on paper or an electronic medium) for
using the packaged reagents for use in a measurement assay for determining the amount of DHT.
10056]   Calibration and QC pools for use in embodiments of the present invention can be
prepared using "stripped" plasma or serum (stripped of DHT): for example, double charcoal
                                                  12

stripped and delipidized serum. All sources of human or non-human stripped plasma or serum
should be checked to ensure that they do not contain measurable amounts of DHT.
Sample Preparation for Mass Spectrometry
[0057]    Test samples may be stored below room temperature. Test samples (including controls)
stored below room temperature are first allowed to come to room temperature and mixed by
mechanical vortex. Internal standard may be added to the test samples at this point.
[0058]    The samples may then be prepared for mass spectrometry by liquid-liquid or solid-phase
extraction. Various methods may be used to enrich DHT relative to other components in the
sample (e.g. protein) prior mass spectrometry, including for example, liquid chromatography,
filtration, centrifugation, thin layer chromatography (TLC), electrophoresis including capillary
electrophoresis, affinity separations including immunoaffinity separations, extraction methods
including ethyl acetate or methanol extraction, and the use of chaotropic agents or any
combination of the above or the like.
 [0059]   Protein precipitation is one method of preparing a test sample, especially a biological
test sample, such as serum or plasma. Such protein purification methods are well known in the
art, for example, Polson et al., Journal of Chromatography B 2003, 785:263-275, describes
protein precipitation techniques suitable for use in methods of the present invention. Protein
precipitation may be used to remove most of the protein from the sample leaving DHT in the
supernatant. The samples may be centrifuged to separate the liquid supernatant from the
precipitated proteins; alternatively the samples may be filtered to remove precipitated proteins.
The resultant supernatant or filtrate may then be applied directly to mass spectrometry analysis;
or alternatively to liquid chromatography and subsequent mass spectrometry analysis. In certain
embodiments, the use of protein precipitation such as for example, formic acid protein
precipitation, may obviate the need for HTLC or other on-line extraction prior to mass
spectrometry or HPLC and mass spectrometry.
 [00601   Accordingly, in some embodiments, protein precipitation, alone or in combination with
one or more purification methods, may be used for purification of DHT prior to mass
spectrometry. In these embodiments, the methods may involve (1) performing a protein
precipitation of the sample of interest; and (2) loading the supernatant directly onto the LC-mass
spectrometer without using on-line extraction or HTLC. Alternatively, the methods may involve
                                                  13

(1) performing a protein precipitation of the sample of interest; and (2) loading the supernatant
onto a HTLC using on-line extraction for further purification prior to mass spectrometry.
 100611 One means of sample purification that may be used prior to mass spectrometry is liquid
chromatography (LC). Certain methods of liquid chromatography, including HPLC, rely on
relatively slow, laminar flow technology. Traditional HPLC analysis relies on column packing
in which laminar flow of the sample through the column is the basis for separation of the analyte
of interest from the sample. The skilled artisan will understand that separation in such columns
is a diffusional process and may select HPLC instruments and columns that are suitable for use
with DHT. The chromatographic column typically includes a medium (i.e., a packing material)
to facilitate separation of chemical moieties (i.e., fractionation). The medium may include
minute particles. The particles include a bonded surface that interacts with the various chemical
moieties to facilitate separation of the chemical moieties. One suitable bonded surface is a
hydrophobic bonded surface such as an alkyl bonded or a cyano bonded surface. Alkyl bonded
surfaces may include C-4, C-8, C-12, or C-18 bonded alkyl groups. In preferred embodiments,
the column is a cyano column. The chromatographic column includes an inlet port for receiving
a sample directly or indirectly from a solid-phase extraction or HTLC column and an outlet port
for discharging an effluent that includes the fractionated sample.
10062]    In one embodiment, the sample may be applied to the LC column at the inlet port, eluted
with a solvent or solvent mixture, and discharged at the outlet port. Different solvent modes may
be selected for eluting the analyte(s) of interest. For example, liquid chromatography may be
performed using a gradient mode, an isocratic mode, or a polytyptic (i.e. mixed) mode. During
chromatography, the separation of materials is effected by variables such as choice of eluent
(also known as a "mobile phase"), elution mode, gradient conditions, temperature, etc.
[00631    In certain embodiments, an analyte may be purified by applying a sample to a column
under conditions where the analyte of interest is reversibly retained by the column packing
material, while one or more other materials are not retained. In these embodiments, a first
mobile phase condition can be employed where the analyte of interest is retained by the column,
and a second mobile phase condition can subsequently be employed to remove retained material
from the column, once the non-retained materials are washed through. Alternatively, an analyte
may be purified by applying a sample to a column under mobile phase conditions where the
                                                   14

analyte of interest elutes at a differential rate in comparison to one or more other materials. Such
procedures may enrich the amount of one or more analytes of interest relative to one or more
other components of the sample.
[00641   In one preferred embodiment, HPLC is conducted with a hydrophobic column
chromatographic system. In certain preferred embodiments, a cyano analytical column (e.g., a
BetaBasic Cyano analytical column from Thermo Scientific, Inc. (5 pm particle size, 50 x 2.1
mm), or equivalent) is used. In certain preferred embodiments, HTLC and/or HPLC are
performed using HPLC Grade 0.1 % aqueous formic acid and 100% methanol as the mobile
phases.
[00651   By careful selection of valves and connector plumbing, two or more chromatography
columns may be connected as needed such that material is passed from one to the next without
the need for any manual steps. In preferred embodiments, the selection of valves and plumbing
is controlled by a computer pre-programmed to perform the necessary steps. Most preferably,
the chromatography system is also connected in such an on-line fashion to the detector system,
e.g., an MS system. Thus, an operator may place a tray of samples in an autosampler, and the
remaining operations are performed under computer control, resulting in purification and
analysis of all samples selected.
100661   In some embodiments, HTLC may be used for purification of DIT prior to mass
spectrometry. In such embodiments, samples may be extracted using an HTLC extraction
cartridge which captures the analyte, then eluted and chromatographed on a second HTLC
column or onto an analytical IIPLC column prior to ionization. For example, sample extraction
with an HTLC extraction cartridge may be accomplished with a large particle size (50 pm)
packed column. Sample eluted off of this column may then be transferred to an HPLC analytical
column, such as a cyano analytical column, for further purification prior to mass spectrometry.
Because the steps involved in these chromatography procedures may be linked in an automated
fashion, the requirement for operator involvement during the purification of the analyte can be
minimized. This feature may result in savings of time and costs, and eliminate the opportunity
for operator error.
                                                    15

Detection and Quantitation by Mass Spectrometry
[00671   In various embodiments, DIT present in a test sample maybe ionized by any method
known to the skilled artisan. Mass spectrometry is performed using a mass spectrometer, which
includes an ion source for ionizing the fractionated sample and creating charged molecules for
further analysis. For example ionization of the sample may be performed by electron ionization,
chemical ionization, electrospray ionization (ESI), photon ionization, atmospheric pressure
chemical ionization (APCI), photoionization, atmospheric pressure photoionization (APPI), fast
atom bombardment (FAB), liquid secondary ionization (LSI), matrix assisted laser desorption
ionization (MALDI), field ionization, field desorption, thermospray/plasmaspray ionization,
surface enhanced laser desorption ionization (SELDI), inductively coupled plasma (ICP) and
particle beam ionization. The skilled artisan will understand that the choice of ionization method
may be determined based on the analyte to be measured, type of sample, the type of detector, the
choice of positive versus negative mode, etc.
[00681   DHT may be ionized in positive or negative mode. In preferred embodiments, DHT is
ionized by APCI in positive mode. In related preferred embodiments, DHT ions are in a gaseous
state and the inert collision gas is argon or nitrogen; preferably argon.
[0069]   In mass spectrometry techniques generally, after the sample has been ionized, the
positively charged or negatively charged ions thereby created may be analyzed to determine a
mass-to-charge ratio. Suitable analyzers for determining mass-to-charge ratios include
quadrupole analyzers, ion traps analyzers, and time-of-flight analyzers. The ions may be
detected using several detection modes. For example, selected ions may be detected, i.e. using a
selective ion monitoring mode (SIM), or alternatively, ions may he detected using a scanning
mode, e.g., multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) or selected reaction monitoring (SRM).
Preferably, the mass-to-charge ratio is determined using a quadrupole analyzer. For example, in
a "quadrupole" or "quadrupole ion trap" instrument, ions in an oscillating radio frequency field
experience a force proportional to the DC potential applied between electrodes, the amplitude of
the RF signal, and the mass/charge ratio. The voltage and amplitude may be selected so that
only ions having a particular mass/charge ratio travel the length of the quadrupole, while all
other ions are deflected. Thus, quadrupole instruments may act as both a "mass filter" and as a
"mass detector" for the ions injected into the instrument.
                                                   16

  100701 One may enhance the resolution of the MS technique by employing "tandem mass
 spectrometry," or "MS/MS". In this technique, a precursor ion (also called a parent ion)
 generated from a molecule of interest can be filtered in an MS instrument, and the precursor ion
 is subsequently fragmented to yield one or more fragment ions (also called daughter ions or
 product ions) that are then analyzed in a second MS procedure. By careful selection of precursor
 ions, only ions produced by certain analytes are passed to the fragmentation chamber, where
 collisions with atoms of an inert gas produce the fragment ions. Because both the precursor and
 fragment ions are produced in a reproducible fashion under a given set of
 ionization/fragmentation conditions, the MS/MS technique may provide an extremely powerful
 analytical tool. For example, the combination of filtration/fragmentation may be used to
 eliminate interfering substances, and may be particularly useful in complex samples, such as
 biological samples.
 [00711   The mass spectrometer typically provides the user with an ion scan; that is, the relative
 abundance of each ion with a particular mass/charge over a given range (e.g., 100 to 1000 amu).
 The results of an analyte assay, that is, a mass spectrum, may be related to the amount of the
 analyte in the original sample by numerous methods known in the art. For example, given that
 sampling and analysis parameters are carefully controlled, the relative abundance of a given ion
 may be compared to a table that converts that relative abundance to an absolute amount of the
 original molecule. Alternatively, molecular standards may be run with the samples, and a
 standard curve constructed based on ions generated from those standards. Using such a standard
 curve, the relative abundance of a given ion may be converted into an absolute amount of the
original molecule. In certain preferred embodiments, an internal standard is used to generate a
standard curve for calculating the quantity of DHT. Methods of generating and using such
standard curves are well known in the art and one of ordinary skill is capable of selecting an
appropriate internal standard. For example, an isotopically labeled steroid may be used as an
internal standard; in certain preferred embodiments the standard is 16, 16, 17-d
                                                                                  3
dihydrotestosterone (16, 16, 17-d 3 DHT). Numerous other methods for relating the amount of an
ion to the amount of the original molecule will be well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
j0072]    One or more steps of the methods may be performed using automated machines. In
certain embodiments, one or more purification steps are performed on-line, and more preferably
all of the purification and mass spectrometry steps may be performed in an on-line fashion.
                                                  17

100731    In certain embodiments, such as MS/MS, where precursor ions are isolated for further
fragmentation, collision activation dissociation is often used to generate the fragment ions for
further detection. In CAD, precursor ions gain energy through collisions with an inert gas, and
subsequently fragment by a process referred to as "unimolecular decomposition." Sufficient
energy must be deposited in the precursor ion so that certain bonds within the ion can be broken
due to increased vibrational energy.
100741 In particularly preferred embodiments, DHT is detected and/or quantified using MS/MS
as follows. The samples are subjected to liquid chromatography, preferably HTLC; the flow of
liquid solvent from the chromatographic column enters the heated nebulizer interface of an
MS/MS analyzer; and the solvent/analyte mixture is converted to vapor in the heated tubing of
the interface. The analyte (e.g., DHT), contained in the nebulized solvent, is ionized by the
corona discharge needle of the interface, which applies a large voltage to the nebulized
solvent/analyte mixture. The ions, e.g. precursor ions, pass through the orifice of the instrument
and enter the first quadrupole. Quadrupoles 1 and 3 (QI and Q3) are mass filters, allowing
selection of ions (i.e., selection of "precursor" and "fragment" ions in Q1 and Q3, respectively)
based on their mass to charge ratio (m/z). Quadrupole 2 (Q2) is the collision cell, where ions are
fragmented. The first quadrupole of the mass spectrometer (Q1) selects for molecules with the
mass to charge ratios of DI-IT. Precursor ions with the correct mass/charge ratios are allowed to
pass into the collision chamber (Q2), while unwanted ions with any other mass/charge ratio
collide with the sides of the quadrupole and are eliminated. Precursor ions entering Q2 collide
with neutral argon gas molecules and fragment. This process is called collision activated
dissociation (CAD). The fragment ions generated are passed into quadrupole 3 (Q3), where the
fragment ions of DHT are selected while other ions are eliminated.
100751    The methods may involve MS/MS perfonned in either positive or negative ion mode;
preferably positive ion mode. Using standard methods well known in the art, one of ordinary
skill is capable of identifying one or more fragment ions of a particular precursor ion of DHT
that may be used for selection in quadrupole 3 (Q3).
100761    As ions collide with the detector they produce a pulse of electrons that arc converted to a
digital signal. The acquired data is relayed to a computer, which plots counts of the ions
collected versus time. The resulting mass chromatograms are similar to chromatograms
                                                   18

generated in traditional HPLC methods. The areas under the peaks corresponding to particular
ions, or the amplitude of such peaks, are measured and the area or amplitude is correlated to the
amount of the analyte of interest. In certain embodiments, the area under the curves, or
amplitude of the peaks, for fragment ion(s) and/or precursor ions are measured to determine the
amount of DHT. As described above, the relative abundance of a given ion may be converted
into an absolute amount of the original analyte, e.g., DHT, using calibration standard curves
based on peaks of one or more ions of an internal molecular standard, such as 16, 16, 17-d 3
dihydrotestosterone.
10077] The following examples serve to illustrate the invention. These examples are in no way
intended to limit the scope of the methods.
                                            EXAMPLES
Example 1: Serum Sample and Reagent Preparation
[0078] Plasma samples were prepared by collecting blood in a Vacutainer tube with no
additives and allowed to clot for about 30 minutes at room temperature. Samples were then
centrifuged and the serum separated from the cells. Samples that exhibited gross hemolysis were
excluded.
10079J Three stock solutions were prepared with DHT (Sigma Chemical Company, Cat. No.
A7755, or equivalent). A DHT stock standard solution of 1 mg/mL in methanol was prepared in
a volumetric flask. A portion of the DHT stock standard solution was then diluted by 1:100 to
prepare a DHT intennediate stock standard solution of 1,000,000 ng/dL in methanol. A portion
of the intermediate stock standard solution was used to prepare a second intennediate stock
standard solution of 2,000 ng/dL in methanol. The second intermediate stock standard solution
was used to prepare a DHT working standard of 200 ng/dL in stripped serum.
10080]    16, 16, 17-d3 dihydrotestosterone (CDN, Cat. No. D-5079, or equivalent) was used to
prepare a 1.0 mg/mL in deuterated methanol 16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone internal standard
stock solution, which was used to prepare a 1,000,000 ng/dL in deuterated methanol 16, 16, 17
d3 dihydrotestosterone intermediate internal standard stock solution. 1.0 mL of this intermediate
stock solution was used to prepare a second intermediate internal standard stock solution at 1000
ng/dL 16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone in water. A 500 ng/dL 16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone
                                                 19

internal standard working solution was prepared by diluting 20 mL of the second intermediate
internal standard stock solution with DI water to volume in a 200 mL volumetric flask.
Example 2: Extraction of DHT from Samples using Liquid Chromatography
100811 Room temperature standards, controls, and patient samples were prepared for liquid
chromatography (LC) by first mixing by mechanical vortex.
[00821 300 pL of each vortexed standard, control, and patient sample was then transferred to a
well of a 96-well plate. 300 pL of 20 % fonnic acid and 100 yL of 500 ng/mL 16, 16, 17-d 3
dihydrotestosterone internal standard working solution were then added to each. The plates were
then vortexed and incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes before being loaded into an
autosampler drawer.
100831 Sample injection was performed with a Cohesive Technologies Aria TLX-1 HTLC
system using Aria OS V 1.5 or newer software. An autosampler wash solution was prepared
using 60 % acetonitrile, 30 % isopropanol, and 10 % acetone (v/v).
100841 The HTLC system automatically injected 100 yL of the above prepared samples into a
TurboFlow column (50 x 1.0 mm, 50 pim C-18 column from Cohesive Technologies) packed
with large particles. The samples were loaded at a high flow rate (5.0 mL/min, loading reagent
0.1 % formic acid) to create turbulence inside the extraction column. This turbulence ensured
optimized binding of DHT to the large particles in the column and the passage of residual protein
and debris to waste.
100851 Following loading, the flow direction was reversed and the sample eluted off to the
analytical column (Thermo Scientific, BetaBasic Cyano column, 5 im particle size, 50 x 2.1
mm). A binary HPLC gradient was applied to the analytical column, to separate DHT from other
analytes contained in the sample. Mobile phase A was 0.1 % formic acid and mobile phase B
was 100 %methanol. The HPLC gradient started with a 3 % organic gradient which ramped to
50 % in approximately 4.75 minutes. The separated sample was then subjected to MS/MS for
quantitation of DI IT.
100861 The specificity of the DHT against similar analyses was determined for the following
compounds (each at a concentration of 1000 ng/dL in stripped serum): testosterone, estriol,
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), estrone, pregnenolone, estradiol, androstenedione, 17-OH
                                                20

pregnenolone, corticosterone, and aldosterone. No significant interference for any of these
compounds was observed.
Example 3: Detection and Quantitation of DIIT by MS/MS
[00871   MS/MS was performed using a Finnigan TSQ Quantum Ultra MS/MS system (Thermo
Electron Corporation). The following software programs all from ThermoElectron were used in
the Examples described herein: Quantum Tune Master V 1.2 or newer, Xcalibur V 1.4 SRI or
newer, TSQ Quantum 1.4 or newer, and LCQuan V 2.0 with SP 1 or newer. Liquid
solvent'analyte exiting the analytical column flowed to the heated nebulizer interface of a
Thermo Finnigan MS/MS analyzer. The solvent/analyte mixture was converted to vapor in the
heated tubing of the interface. Analytes in the nebulized solvent were ionized by APCI.
[00881   Ions passed to the first quadrupole (QI), which selected ions with a mass to charge ratio
of 291.10 ± 0.50 m/z. Ions entering Quadrupole 2 (Q2) collided with argon gas to generate ion
fragments, which were passed to quadrupole 3 (Q3) for further selection. Simultaneously, the
same process using isotope dilution mass spectrometry was carried out with an internal standard,.
16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone. The following mass transitions were used for detection and
quantitation during validation on positive polarity.
                        Table 1. Mass Transitions for DHT (Positive Polarity)
                         Analyte               Precursor Ion (n/)     Product Ion (n/z)
                          DHT                         291.10           255.20 and 79.2
           16, 16, 17-d 3 dihydrotestosterone         294.10                 258.2
                   (internal standard)
Example 4: Intra-assay and Inter-assay Precision and Accuracy
[0089]   Three quality control (QC) pools were prepared from charcoal-stripped human serum
(Golden West Biologicals., Temecula, CA) spiked with DHT to a concentration of 25, 75, and
150 ng/dL, to cover the presumptive reportable range of the assay.
10090]   Ten aliquots from each of the three QC pools were analyzed in a single assay to
determine the coefficient of variation (CV (%)) of a sample within an assay. The following
values were determined:
                                                 21

                            Table 2. Intra-Assay Variation and Accuracy
                                                Level I       Level I      Level III
                                              (25 ng/dL)    (75 ng/dL)   (150 ng/dL)
                      Mean (ngIdL)               26.8          73.83        145.23
              Standard Deviation (ng/dL)         3.98           3.02          4.58
                          CV (%)                14.80%        4.09o%        3.16 %
                      Accuracy (%)             107.2 %       98.440%       96.82 %
[0091]   Ten aliquots from each of the three QC pools were assayed over ten days to determine
the coefficient of variation (CV (%)) between assays. The following values were determined:
                            Table 3. Inter-Assay Variation and Accuracy
                                               Level I        Level I      Level III
                                             (25 ng/dL)     (75 ng/dL)   (150 ng/dL)
                     Mean (ng/dL)               24.51          75.18        152.31
              Standard Deviation (ng/dL)         2.47           3.32          5.81
                          CV (%)               10.06%         4.42%         3.820%
                     A ccuracy (%)             98.04%        100.24%       101.54%
Example 5: Analytical Sensitivity: Limit of Detection (LOD) and Limit of Quantitation (LOQ)
100921 The LOQ is the point where measurements become quantitatively meaningful. The
analyte response at this LOQ is identifiable, discrete and reproducible with a precision of 20%
and an accuracy of 80% to 120%. The LOQ was determined by assaying analyte-stripped serum
specimens spiked with DHT concentrations of 1.25, 2.5, 5.0, 10.0, and 20.0 ng/dL (five
replicates at each level) then determining the CV. The results were plotted (shown in Figure 1)
and the LOQ was detenined from the curve to be 5.0 ng/dL.
[0093]   The LOD is the point at which a value is beyond the uncertainty associated with its
measurement and is defined as two standard deviations from the zero concentration. To
determine the LOQ for the DIIT assay, blank samples of charcoal-stripped serum were run in ten
                                                 22

replicates. The results of these assays were statistically analyzed with a mean value of 1.0
ng/dL. and a standard deviation of 0.5 ng/dL. Thus, the LOD for the DHT was 2.0 ng/dL.
Example 6: Assay Reportable Range and Linearity
 [0094] To establish the linearity of DHT detection in the assay, one blank assigned as zero
standard and five spiked serum standards at concentrations ranging from 10 to 200 ng/dL were
assayed. The correlation value of the concentration range tested (0 to 200 ng/dL) was greater
than 0.995. A graph showing the linearity of the standard curve up to 200 ng/dL is shown in
Figure 2.
 Example 7: Matrix Specificity
 [0095]    Matrix specificity was evaluated by diluting patient serum samples two-fold and four
 fold with the following matrices: analyte-stripped serum (charcoal stripped serum, Cat. No.
 SP1070, Golden West Biologicals, Inc.), normal human defibrinated serum (Cat. No. 1101-00,
 Biocell Labs, Carson, CA 90746, or equivalent), and deionized (DI) water. Two serum samples
were spiked with the following concentrations of DHT: 92.4 ng/dL, 64.1 ng/dL. The spiked
 serums were then diluted 2x and 4x with the above matrices and analyzed. The study indicated
 that all three matrices can be used to dilute samples with analyte values above the linear range.
 The results of this study are presented in Table 4.
                                  Table 4. Matrix Specificity of DHT
               Dilution           Expected               Stripped       Biocell Serum     DI Water
                Factor     Concentration (ng/dL)     Serum (ng/dL)         (ng/dL)         (ng/dL)
 Sample 1                            92.4
                  2x                46.2                   47.7              50.8             49
                  4x                21.1                   24.1              21.1            22.5
 Sample 2          -64.1
                  2x                32.05                  37.3              34.6            34.8
                  4x                16.03                  19.1              18.9            16.4
 Example 8: Recovery Studies
 [00961    Quality control (QC) samples were used for recovery studies. Low, mid, and high QC
 samples were spiked with DHT to a concentration of 112.5, 137.5, and 175 ng/dL, respectively
                                                  23

10097]   A recovery study of these DHT spiked samples was performed (five assays at each
concentration). Absolute recovery was calculated by dividing the DHT concentration detected in
the pooled samples by the expected DHT concentration in samples. The mean recoveries were
89.01 %, 90.15 %, and 94.93 %, respectively. All recoveries were acceptable, i.e., within the
range of 80% to 120%.
Example 9: Specimen Studies
[00981   Specimens were derived from sample collection tubes with no additives (for serum),
serum separator tubes (SST), EDTA tubes, or sodium heparin tubes (36 samples, 18 from males
and 18 from females). Four male and one female EDTA samples, as well as one female hcparin
sample, were excluded as unsuitable for analysis because of being either grossly hemolytic or
lipemic. The remainder were tested for the applicability of the instant methods to various sample
types. Data analysis revealed that there was little difference between DHT levels detected in the
various sample types (see Tables 5 and 6).
                       Table 5. Sample Type Comparisons for DIIT, Males
               Sample Type     Mean DHT (ng/dL)         Standard Deviation (ng/dL)
                  Serum               34.1925                     20.5794
                    SST               39.2492                     17.1014
                  ED TA               37.4059                     15.6782
                  Heparin             42.7082                     15.0552
                     Table 6. Sample Type Comparisons for DHT, Females
               Sample Type     Mean DHT (ng/dL)         Standard Deviation (ng/dL)
                  Serum               26.6482                     14.6048
                   SST               24.3991                      18.8417
                  EDTA[               28.9525                     12.8975
                 Heparin             23.0536                      18.8463
                                                 24

  Example 10: Comparison of HTLC-MS and RIA Studies
  100991 A comparison study was performed using patient samples covering the reportable range,
 assayed by the instant methods with a reference radioimmunoassay (RIA) method. Correlation
 was determined by linear regression (shown in Figure 3A) and Deming analysis (shown in
 Figure 3B). The correlation coefficient for linear regression analysis was 0.88.
 [00100] The contents of the articles, patents, and patent applications, and all other documents
 and electronically available information mentioned or cited herein, are hereby incorporated by
 reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically
 and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Applicants reserve the right to
 physically incorporate into this application any and all materials and information from any such
 articles, patents, patent applications, or other physical and electronic documents.
 [001011 The methods illustratively described herein may suitably be practiced in the absence of
 any element or elements, limitation or limitations, not specifically disclosed herein. Thus, for
 example, the terms "comprising", "including," containing", etc. shall be read expansively and
without limitation. Additionally, the terms and expressions employed herein have been used as
terms of description and not of limitation, and there is no intention in the use of such terms and
 expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof.
It is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed.
Thus, it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed
by preferred embodiments and optional features, modification and variation of the invention
embodied therein herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such
modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention.
1001021 The invention has been described broadly and generically herein. Each of the narrower
species and subgeneric groupings falling within the generic disclosure also form part of the
methods. This includes the generic description of the methods with a proviso or negative
limitation removing any subject matter from the genus, regardless of whether or not the excised
material is specifically recited herein.
100103] Other embodiments are within the following claims. In addition, where features or
aspects of the methods are described in terms of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will
                                                   25

recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or
subgroup of members of the Markush group.
                                               26

CLAIMS
   1.    A method for determining the amount of underivatized dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a
  body fluid sample, said method comprising:
          a.     ionizing underivatized DHT, purified by solid phase extraction (SPE) from the
 body fluid sample, under conditions suitable to produce one or more ions detectable by mass
  spectrometry; wherein said ions comprise one or more ions selected from the group consisting of
  ions with a mass/charge ratio of 291.10 ± 0.50, 255.20 + 0.50, and 79.20 + 0.50; and
         b.      determining the amount of one or more ions by mass spectrometry, and using the
  amount determined to calculate the amount of underivatized DHT in the body fluid sample.
 2.      The method of claim 1, wherein said mass spectrometry is tandem mass spectrometry.
 3.      The method of any one of claims 1-2, wherein said ionizing comprises generating a
 precursor ion with a mass/charge ratio of 291.10 ± 0.50 and generating one or more fragment
 ions selected from the group consisting of ions with a mass/charge ratio of 255.20 + 0.50 and
 79.20     0.50.
 4.      The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein said SPE and mass spectrometry are
 conducted in an on-line fashion.
 5.      The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein said SPE is conducted as high turbulence
 liquid chromatography (HTLC).
 6.      The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said purifying further comprises purifying
 with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
 7.      The method of claim 6, wherein said SPE and said HPLC are connected for on-line
 processing of the sample.
 8.      The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said body fluid sample is plasma or serum.
                                                 27

9.       The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said method has a limit of quantitation
within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive.
10.      The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the amount of the one or more ions
determined by mass spectrometry is related to the presence or amount of underivatized DHT in
the test sample by comparison to an internal standard.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the internal standard comprises 16, 16, 17-d 3
dihydrotestosterone.
12.      A method for determining the amount of underivatized dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a
test sample by mass spectrometry, said method comprising:
         a.     ionizing underivatized DHT, purified from the test sample by high turbulence
liquid chromatography (HTLC), under conditions suitable to produce one or more ions
detectable by mass spectrometry; and
         b.     determining the amount of one or more ions by mass spectrometry, and using the
amount determined to calculate the amount of underivatized DHT in the body fluid sample.
13.      The method of claim 12, wherein said mass spectrometry is tandem mass spectrometry.
14.      The method of any one of claims 12-13, wherein said purifying further comprises
     purifying with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
15.      The method of any one of claims 12-14, wherein said HTLC and said HPLC are
     configured for on-line processing.
16.      The method of any one of claims 12-15, wherein said test sample is a body fluid sample.
 17.     The method of any one of claims 12-16, wherein said test sample is plasma or serum.
 18.     The method of any one of claims 12-17, wherein the one or more ions detectable by mass
spectrometry comprise one or more ions selected from the group consisting of ions with a
mass/charge ratio of 291.10     0.50, 255.20  0.50, and 79.20 = 0.50.
                                                28

 19.     The method of any one of claims 12-18, wherein said ionizing comprises generating a
 precursor ion with a mass/charge ratio of 291.10± 0.50, and one or more fragment ions selected
 from the group consisting of ions with a mass/charge ratio of 255.20 ± 0.50 and 79.20± 0.50.
 20.     The method of any one of claims 12-19, wherein said method has a limit of quantitation
 within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive.
 21.     The method of any one of claims 12-20, wherein the amount of one or more ions detected
by mass spectrometry is related to the presence or amount of underivatized DHT in the test
 sample by comparison to an internal standard.
 22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the internal standard comprises 16, 16, 17-d 3
 dihydrotestosterone.
23.      A method for determining the amount of underivatized dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in a
body fluid sample by tandem mass spectrometry said method comprising:
         a.     generating a precursor ion of underivatized DHT, purified from a body fluid
sample by high turbulence liquid chromatography (HTLC), having a mass/charge ratio of 291.10
   0.50;
         b.     generating one or more fragment ions of said precursor ion, wherein at least one
of said one or more fragment ions comprise a fragment ion selected from the group of ions
having a mass/charge ratio of 255.20  ±  0.50 and 79.20 , 0.50; and
         c.     determining the amount of one or more of said ions generated in step (b) or (c) or
both, and using the amount determined to calculate the amount of underivatized DHT in said test
sample.
24.      The method of claim 23, wherein said purifying further comprises purifying with high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
25.      The method of claim 24, wherein said HTLC and said HPLC are configured for on-line
processing.
                                                29

26.      The method of any one of claims 23-25, wherein said body fluid sample is plasma or
serum.
27.      The method of any one of claims 23-26, wherein said method has a limit of
quantitation within the range of 5.0 ng/dL to 200 ng/dL, inclusive.
28.      The method of any one of claims 23-27, wherein the amount of one or more ions
determined by mass spectrometry is related to the presence or amount of underivatized DHT
in the test sample by comparison to an internal standard.
29.      The method of claim 28, wherein the internal standard comprises 16, 16, 17-d 3
dihydrotestosterone.
                  QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INVESTMENTS INCORPORATED
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                               30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
