                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A breathing assistance unit for providing pressurized heated humidified air at to a user
is configured to increase user compliance. The breathing assistance unit comprises means for
generating positive emotional and cognitive states of a user about the therapy.
                                              -35-

       1/19
NT7
    cc

     METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INCREASING THERAPY COMPLIANCE
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
         The present invention generally relates to methods and apparatus for sensing a
condition of a body of a living thing receiving a respiratory gas.      More particularly, the
present invention relates to methods and apparatus for improving patient compliance in
continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP)
treatment. Compliance, as used in the CPAP field, can mean the duration of nightly use of
the device, or the amount of time that the device is switched on and being worn.
Description of the Related Art
         Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common sleep breathing disorder affecting
approximately 2-4% of the middle-aged population. Continuous positive airway pressure
(CPAP) and bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) are two treatments for OSA. While
CPAP and BiPAP provide an effective treatment of OSA, compliance is often low.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         Applicants have discovered that an often overlooked influence on CPAP compliance
is the psychological aspect of devices. People who have a more positive impression of CPAP
therapy are believed to be more likely to adhere to and comply with treatment. This includes
people who are more likely to understand the risks associated with OSA and the benefit of
CPAP and people who describe a positive belief in their ability to use the CPAP.
         Thus, the user-friendliness of a device may be important in improving compliance.
Similarly, a device that is aesthetically pleasing may promote interaction and reduce
cognitive distance as a barrier to therapy. This interaction between the aesthetics and the
objective elements of treatment has been described in the dual process model of Leventhal H
et al., The impact of communications on the self-regulation of health beliefs, decisions, and
behavior, Health Education Behavior 1983; 10(1): 3-29. The theory states that the quality
(emotional elements such as aesthetics) and clarity (cognitive elements such as ease of use) of
a medical message, such as in the interaction with a medical device, can determine a patient's
adherence.
                                              -1-

        Historically, to improve compliance, CPAP designers and manufacturers have
focused on technological improvements, such as pressure modification and humidification.
However, there is limited evidence that these technology-centric advances have any impact
on compliance.      Instead, improved user perception of treatment may lead to improved
compliance with that treatment.         It is believed that, through making the device more
aesthetically pleasing and easy to use, the patient is more likely to comply with treatment.
        Thus, a device has been designed to include means for improving the user-friendly
nature of the device while also improving the aesthetics of the device.
        In an aspect, the present invention may consist in a positive airway pressure device
configured to improve patient compliance by providing an improved user-friendliness and by
reducing cognitive distance as a barrier to therapy, the positive airway pressure device
comprising
        a housing comprising an outer surface, the outer surface comprising a front wall;
        a control knob and a control display positioned on the front wall, the control display
        comprising a clock display;
        a blower unit, a humidification compartment and an internal power supply all
        disposed within the housing; and
        the housing having a footprint of less than about 40,000 mm 2 whereby the housing
        that contains the blower unit, the humidification compartment and the internal power
        supply comfortably fits on an average bedside stand.
        Optionally, the humidification compartment is adapted to receive a humidifier
chamber, the humidifier chamber being adapted to hold at least about 420 ml of water.
        Optionally, an upper portion of the humidification compartment is covered by a
removable lid, the lid being removably attached to the housing.
        Optionally, the removable lid defines a handhold location for carrying of the positive
airway pressure device,
        Optionally, the housing further comprises a first side surface and a second side
surface each extending rearward from the front surface, a smooth contour being formed by
the front surface, the first side surface and the second side surface.
                                                 -2-

        Optionally, an inlet to the blower unit is fluidly connected to ambient air and extends
through at least one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear
wall.
        Optionally, the display comprises a smiley face shaped indicator.
        Optionally, the control display facilitates playing of sound or music files from a
removable memory source.
        Optionally, the device further comprises an airflow outlet extending from one of the
front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall, the airflow outlet being
pivotable or rotatable relative to the housing, the airflow outlet being connected to one of the
humidification chamber and one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and
the rear wall.
        Optionally, the clock display is time-zone adjustable.
        Optionally, the humidifier chamber is dishwashable.
        Optionally, the internal power supply comprises a power cord that is adapted to be
plugged directly into a power supply outlet, the power cord extending outward from the
housing through one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear
wall.
        In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of
improving patient compliance with a program of continuous positive airway pressure therapy,
the method comprising providing a positive airway pressure device that comprises means for
generating positive emotional and cognitive states of a user about the therapy.
        Also described herein is a positive airway pressure device configured to improve
patient compliance by providing an improved user-friendliness and by reducing cognitive
distance as a barrier to therapy, the positive airway pressure device comprising: a housing
comprising an outer surface, the outer surface comprising a front wall, a rear wall, a first side
wall extending between the front wall and the rear wall and a second side wall extending
between the front wall and the rear wall, the front wall slightly inclined such that an upper
portion of the front wall is closer to the rear wall than a lower portion of the front wall, the
front wall connected to each of the first side wall and the second side wall with a rounded
corner, and a top wall connected to each of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side
                                                -3-

wall and the rear wall; a control knob and a control display positioned on the front wall, the
control display being positioned directly above the control knob, the control display
comprising a clock display and a smiley face shaped indicator; a blower unit disposed within
the housing, an inlet to the blower unit being fluidly connected to ambient air and extending
through at least one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear
wall; a humidification compartment disposed within the housing, an upper portion of the
humidification compartment being covered by a removable lid, the lid being removably
attached to the housing and defining a handhold location for carrying of the positive airway
pressure device, the humidification compartment being adapted to receive a humidifier
chamber; the humidifier chamber being an open top container with a heat-conducting surface;
an airflow outlet extending from one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall
and the rear wall, the airflow outlet being pivotable or rotatable relative to the housing, the
airflow outlet being connected to one of the humidification chamber and one of the front
wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall; and an internal power supply
being positioned within the housing, the housing having a footprint of less than about 40,000
mm 2 whereby the housing that contains the blower unit, the humidification compartment and
the internal power supply comfortably fits on an average bedside stand. Optionally, the clock
display is time-zone adjustable; Optionally, the inlet to the blower unit comprises a
replaceable air filter Optionally, the humidifier chamber is dishwashable. Optionally, the
humidifier chamber is adapted to hold at least about 420 ml of water. Optionally, the internal
power supply comprises a power cord that is adapted to be plugged directly into a power
supply outlet, the power cord extending outward from the housing through one of the front
wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall.
        Also described herein is a method of improving patient compliance with a program of
continuous positive airway pressure therapy, the method comprising providing the positive
airway pressure device above.
        Also described herein is a positive airway pressure device configured to improve
patient compliance by providing an improved user-friendliness and by reducing cognitive
distance as a barrier to therapy. The positive airway pressure device comprises a housing
comprising an outer surface. The outer surface comprises a front wall, a rear wall, a first side
                                                -4-

wall extending between the front wall and the rear wall and a second side wall extending
between the front wall and the rear wall. The front wall is slightly inclined such that an upper
portion of the front wall is closer to the rear wall than a lower portion of the front wall. The
front wall is connected to each of the first side wall and the second side wall with a rounded
corner. A top wall is connected to each of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side
wall and the rear wall. A control knob and a control display are positioned on the front wall
with the control display being positioned directly above the control knob.            The control
display comprises a clock display and a smiley face shaped indicator.           A blower unit is
disposed within the housing. An inlet to the blower unit is fluidly connected to ambient air
and extends through at least one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and
the rear wall. A humidification compartment is disposed within the housing.             An upper
portion of the humidification compartment is covered by a removable lid.               The lid is
removably attached to the housing and defines a handhold location for carrying of the
positive airway pressure device. The humidification compartment is adapted to receive a
humidifier chamber.        The humidifier chamber is an open top container with a heat
conducting surface. An airflow outlet extends from one of the front wall, the first side wall,
the second side wall and the rear wall. The airflow outlet is pivotable or rotatable relative to
the housing and the airflow outlet is connected to one of the humidification chamber and one
of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall. An internal power
supply is positioned within the housing.
         Also described herein is a positive airway pressure device configured to improve
patient compliance by providing an improved user-friendliness and by reducing cognitive
distance as a barrier to therapy. The positive airway pressure device comprises a housing
comprising an outer surface. The outer surface comprises a front surface, a first side surface
and a second side surface extending rearward from the front surface. A smooth contour is
forced by the front surface, the first side surface and the second side surface. A control knob
and a control display are positioned on the front wall. The control display comprises a clock
display and a smiley face shaped indicator. A blower unit is disposed within the housing
with an inlet to the blower unit being fluidly connected to ambient air and extending through
at least one of the fi-ont wall, the first side wall, and the second side wall. A humidification
                                                 -5-

compartment also is disposed within the housing. An internal power supply is positioned
within the housing.
         Also described herein is a method of improving patient compliance with a program of
positive airway pressure therapy comprises providing a positive airway pressure device that
comprises means for generating positive emotional and cognitive states of a user with respect
to the therapy.
         To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in
construction and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest
themselves without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended
claims.     The disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not
intended to be in any sense limiting.
         The term "comprising" is used in the specification and claims, means "consisting at
least in part of'. When interpreting a statement in this specification and claims that includes
"comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be present.
Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the same manner.
         In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that
such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part
of the common general knowledge in the art.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide a breathing assistance apparatus
which goes some way to overcoming the abovementioned disadvantages or which at least
provides the public or industry with a useful choice.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will now be
described with reference to the drawings of a preferred embodiment, which embodiment is
intended to illustrate and not to limit the invention, and in which figures:
                                                -6-

        Figure 1 shows a schematic view of a user receiving humidified air from a modular
blower/humidifier system of a known, prior art, type.
        Figure 2 shows a schematic view of a user receiving humidified air from an integrated
blower/humidifier system of a known, prior art, type.
        Figure 3 shows a perspective view of the preferred embodiment of the integrated
blower/humidifier of the present invention, which has a separate humidifier chamber and
assisted breathing unit that are shown with the humidifier chamber in place within the blower
unit ready for use.
        Figure 4 shows a perspective view of the blower unit of Figure 3, with the humidifier
unit removed (not shown).
        Figure 5a shows a rear view of the blower unit of Figure 3, with a section line D-D
shown.
        Figure 5b shows a cross-sectional view along section line D-D of the blower unit of
Figure 4.
        Figure 6 shows an exploded view of the blower unit and the humidifier unit of Figure
3.
        Figure 7 shows a schematic detail view along section line DD of the internal structure
of the blower unit.
        Figure 8 shows a cutaway view of the blower unit from underneath and to the rear
looking forwards, with detail of an air inlet duct, a power supply and power supply sub
housing, a fan, and an air path through the unit shown.
        Figure 9 shows a cutaway view of the blower unit from underneath and to the rear
looking forwards, with the rearmost part of the blower unit cut away to show detail of the air
path around the power supply sub-housing.
        Figures 10a and 10b show cutaway views of the blower unit from underneath and to
the rear looking forwards, with Figure 10a showing the blower unit with the base and part of
the rear wall removed, and Figure 10b showing the rear part of the blower cutaway further
forward than the view of Figure 10a, to show detail of the air path over the power supply sub
housing.
                                              -7-

        Figure 11 a shows a cutaway bottom view of the blower unit of the preceding Figures,
with the base removed.
        Figure 11 b shows a schematic view of the blower of Figure 1 la, with the air path and
turbulence shown as the air passes firstly into the air inlet duct, then over and around the
power supply sub-housing, and then into and out of the fan.
        Figure 12 shows a schematic line view of the blower unit underneath and to the rear
looking forwards, with the air path and turbulence shown as the air passes firstly into the air
inlet duct, then over and around the power supply sub-housing, and then into and out of the
fan.
        Figure 13a shows a rear view of the humidifier chamber of the present invention, with
a humidifier chamber lid and a locking handle shown in exploded view above the humidifier
chamber, and a section line A-A shown.
        Figure 13b shows a cross sectional view along the line A-A of the humidifier
chamber, humidifier chamber lid and locking handle of figure 13a.
        Figure 14 shows a schematic cross-section of part of the front of the blower unit.
         Figure 15 shows a preferred form of main menu that is displayed on a display panel
of the integrated blower/humidifier of Figure 3.
        Figure 16 shows a schematic view of the internal structure of the preferred form of
fan and motor that can be used in the blower unit of Figure 5b.
        Figure 17 shows a partial view of the lid of Figure 6, and a locking handle used to
hold the lid in position, with the lid and locking handle separated.
        Figure 18 shows a preferred form of carry case that can be used with the breathing
assistance apparatus of the present invention, closed and upright resting on its end base.
        Figure 19 shows a cutaway side view of the carry case of Figure 18, resting on its side
base, ready to be opened, with an integrated breathing assistance apparatus of the type shown
in Figure 3 located in the carry case.
        Figure 20 shows a top view of the carry case of Figures 18 and 19, with the lid or top
half not shown, and an integrated breathing assistance apparatus of the type shown in Figure
3 located in the carry case ready for transport.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
                                                -8-

         A schematic view of a user 3a receiving air from a known (prior art) modular assisted
breathing unit and humidifier system is shown in Figure 1. Pressurized air is provided from
an assisted breathing unit or blower la via a conduit 41 to a humidifier chamber 2a.
Humidified, - heated and pressurized gases exit the humidifier chamber 2a via a conduit 21,
and are provided to the patient or user 3 via a user interface 4. The user interface 4 shown in
Figure 1 is a nasal mask, covering the nose of the user 3. However, it should be noted that in
systems of these types, a full face mask, nasal cannula, tracheostomy fitting, or any other
suitable user interface could be substituted for the nasal mask shown.
         A schematic view of the user 3 receiving air from a known, prior art integrated
blower/humidifier unit 5 is shown in Figure 2. The system operates in the same manner as
the modular system shown in Figure 1, except that humidifier chamber 2b has been integrated
with the blower unit lb to form the integrated unit 5.
         The integrated blower/humidifier unit 6 of the present invention can be substituted for
the unit 5 of Figure 2. The preferred form of the integrated blower/humidifier unit 6 is shown
assembled and ready for use in Figure 3. The unit 6 has two main parts: An integrated
assisted breathing unit 7 (also known as a blower unit), having an outer shell which forms
part of the breathing unit 7 and also encloses the working parts of the assisted breathing unit
e.g. the fan, internal -ducting and the internal control system; and a humidification unit 31
(described in detail below).
         Assisted Breathing Unit
         The preferred fonn of assisted breathing unit or integrated unit 6 will now be
described with reference to Figures 4- 17.
         The integrated unit 6 consists of two main parts: an assisted breathing or blower unit
7 and a humidification unit 31. The humidification unit 31 is enclosed within die external
casing of the integrated unit 6 in use, except for the top part.            The structure of the
humidification unit 31 is described in detail below.
         The blower unit 7 has an outer shell that is a generally rectangular block with
substantially vertical side and rear walls, and a front face that is angled slightly rearwards. In
the preferred embodiment, the walls, base and top surface are all manufactured and connected
as far as possible to minimize the occurrence of seams, and any necessary seams are sealed.
                                                -9-

In some embodiments, the housing or outer shell comprises the front wall, the side walls and
the rear wall. The housing also can include a top wall or upper wall. At least the front wall
and the side walls preferably are connected by rounded corners to provide a more
aesthetically pleasing appearance. These features are clearly shown in Figures 3, 4 and 8.
          The illustrated housing has a dramatically reduced footprint. In some embodiments,
the footprint is less than about 200 mm by about 200 mm. Preferably, the footprint is about
190 mm deep by about 170 mm wide. Given a typical bedside table with a width of about
480 mm and a depth of about 480 mm, the footprint occupies less than about 20% or, more
preferably, less than about 15% of the typical table top area. Preferably, the footprint is less
than about 40000 mm 2 . More preferably, the footprint is less than about 35000 mm 2 . Even
more preferably, the footprint is less than about 32300 mm 2. The housing also preferably is
less than about 300 mm high, more preferably less than about 200 mm high and even more
preferably less than about 160 mm high. The volume of the housing preferably is less than
about 0.008 m3 . More preferably, the volume of the housing is less than about 0.006 M3.
          This outer shell encloses the working parts of the blower unit 7, and forms part of the
blower unit 7. As shown in Figure 4, a control knob 8 is located on the lower section of the
front face of the integrated unit 6, with a control display 9 located directly above the knob 8.
A patient outlet 25 is shown passing out of the rear wall of the integrated unit 6. In the
preferred embodiment, in use the free end of the outlet 25 faces upwards for ease of
connection. However, the preferred form of patient outlet 25 can be rotated to one side or the
other to move or align it in a more convenient position for storage or for a more convenient
use position.      The patient outlet 25 is adapted to allow both pneumatic and electrical
connection to one end of a conduit -       e.g. conduit 21 -   running between the unit 6 and a
patient interface -     e.g. interface 4. An example of the type of connector that can be used
and the type of dual connection that can be made is described in US 6,953,354. It should be
noted that for the purposes of reading this specification, the patient interface can be thought
of as including both the interface 4 and the conduit 21 where it would be appropriate to read
it in this manner.
          In Figure 3, a locking handle 22 is shown in position on the top surface of the
integrated unit 6. The locking handle 22 is a separate item that can be unlocked and removed
                                                -10-

from the remainder of the integrated unit 6.       The locking handle 22 includes a grip 30,
adapted to act as a handle to allow a user to lift and carry the integrated unit 6, and also
adapted to enable the handle 22 to be rotated from a locked position to an unlocked position.
The locking handle 22 can be releasably locked to the remainder of the integrated unit 6. The
function of the locking handle 22 will be more fully described below in the 'humidifier unit'
section.
         Figure 4 shows the integrated unit 6 with the locking handle 22 removed and the
humidification unit 31 not shown. That is, just the blower unit 7 is shown. The top surface
of the blower unit 7 includes a circular humidifier aperture 1000, leading to an internal
humidifier compartment 11. The opening includes a rim 24 located around the circumference
of the opening. In use, a humidifier chamber 12 is located within the compartment 11. The
humidifier chamber 12 will be described in detail below. The humidifier chamber 12 is in
use fully enclosed inside the compartment 11, except for the uppermost part.          When the
chamber 12 is described as enclosed in the blower unit 7, it can be taken to mean fully
enclosed except for the uppennost portion, as well as fully enclosed including the uppermost
portion.
         The internal structure of the blower unit 7 will now be described with reference to
Figures 4 and 5. A heater base 23 is located at the bottom of the compartment 11. The heater
base 23 is mounted to the floor of the compartment 11 in such a way that it has a small
amount of elastic or compression resilience. That is, it can be pushed downwards a short
distance within the compartment, but will push back against any downwards force that is
applied. In the absence of any downwards force it will return to its initial position. This can
be achieved by spring loading the base 23, or by any other of the methods that are known in
the associated arts. A blower inlet port 13 and blower outlet port 14 are located on the wall of
the compartment 11, towards the top of the compartment 11.         A replaceable filter can be
provided at the inlet port 13. Preferably, the filter is replaceable from outside of the outer
shell or housing of the blower unit.
         In the preferred embodiment, the blower ports 13, 14 are aligned so as to mate with
humidifier ports 15, 16 located on the humidifier chamber 12 in use (described in detail
below) so as to form a blower-to-humidifier gases route that allows gases to exit the blower 7
                                              -11-

and enter the humidifier chamber 12. It should be noted that other forms of blower inlet are
possible. For example, a conduit running between the blower unit 7 and e.g. the lid of the
humidifier chamber 12.
         As shown in Figures 7 and 8, the integrated unit 6 includes an inlet vent 101 to draw
air in from atmosphere.    The integrated unit 6 also includes a mechanism for providing a
pressurized air flow from the inlet vent 101 to the humidifier chamber. This vent 101 can be
located wherever is convenient on the external surface of the integrated unit 6.            In the
preferred embodiment, as shown in Figure 8, it is located on the rear face of the blower unit
7. In the preferred embodiment, air is drawn in through the vent 101 by a fan unit 100 that
acts as the preferred form of pressured air flow mechanism (described in detail below). The
air is ducted or otherwise directed through the casing to the inlet port 13. In use, air will exit
the main body of the blower unit 7 via the inlet port 13 and then enter the humidifier chamber
12, where it is humidified and heated, before passing out of the chamber 12 through the outlet
port 14, which is directly connected to the patient outlet 25. The heated humidified gas is
then passed to the user 3 via e.g. a conduit 21.     The patient outlet 25 is adapted to enable
pneumatic attachment of the patient conduit 21, and in the preferred embodiment, electrical
connection at the outlet 25 is also enabled via an electrical connector 19.          A combined
electrical and pneumatic connection can be useful for example if the conduit 21 is to be
heated.   Electrical heating of a conduit such as conduit 21 can prevent or minimize the
occurrence of condensation within the conduit 21.       It should also be noted that the outlet
connection does not have to be via the housing of the integrated unit 6. If required, the
connection for the conduit 21 could be located directly on an outlet from humidifier chamber
12.     The preferred form and variations can generally be referred to as connection
mechanisms.
         As shown in Figures 6 and 7, the inlet port 13 is offset. That is, the port is positioned
facing into or out of the corner of the integrated unit 6 between the side wall and the front
face. In contrast, outlet port 14 is directly aligned with the rear wall of the integrated unit 6.
It can also be seen from Figure 6 that the circular compartment 11 is sized to just fit within
the generally square plan view profile of the integrated unit 6. Offsetting the inlet port 13
towards the corner allows a more efficient use of the space within the assisted breathing
                                               -12-

integrated unit 6, and allows the size of the integrated blower/humidifier unit 6 to be
minimized.
        The locking handle 22 and the integrated unit 6 include a locking mechanism for
locking the handle 22 to the integrated unit 6. In the preferred embodiment, the locking
mechanism is as follows: the rim 24 includes two mating grooves 26 located just below the
rim 24, spaced opposite each other on the circumference of the rim 24. More than two of the
mating grooves 26 can be used if required. The grooves 26 correspond to an equal number of
mating lugs 27 on the locking handle 22. The mating groove or grooves 26 have an entry
point 28 on the rim 24, with the main part of the groove 26 located slightly below the rim 24.
The lugs 27 are pushed downwards into the entry points 28, and the handle is rotated so that
the lugs enter the main part of the grooves 26 to hold the handle 22 in place. Different
locking mechanisms can be used if desired.
        Humidifier chamber with lid
        The humidifier unit 31 will now be described in more detail with particular reference
to Figures 13 and 17.
        In the preferred embodiment, the humidifier unit 31 is comprised of three main parts:
humidifier chamber 12, lid 32 and locking handle 22 (counted as part of the humidifier unit
for describing the operation of the integrated unit 6).
        The preferred embodiment of the humidifier chamber 12 is an open-topped container,
with a heat conducting base. In some configurations, the humidifier chamber 12 is desired to
be dishwasher safe and can be cleaned in a standard dishwasher. The chamber 12 is sized to
fit snugly within the compartment 11 on the integrated unit 6. Preferably, the chamber 12 is
sized to accommodate at least about 420 ml of water. While the chamber 12 can be larger or
smaller, about 420 ml has been determined to be a desirable amount of water for use in the
apparatus.
        The chamber 12 is enclosed within the blower unit except for the open top of the
chamber 12. A fully open topped chamber 12 is the preferred form. However, an alternative
form of the chamber 12 could have a closed top surface, and would include an opening on the
chamber (not necessarily on the top surface), sized appropriately so that a user can easily fill
the chamber 12.     The preferred form of chamber 12 with an open top, and the alternative
                                               -13-

form that includes a fill opening on the top are referred to as 'open top', or 'top openings'
within this specification.    The open top may also be referred to as a 'top EU aperture'. It
should also be noted that when the humidifier chamber 12 is referred to as 'enclosed', or
'substantially enclosed' in relation to the integrated breathing assistance apparatus, this has the
meanings defined above. The chamber 12 is generally circular, but the lower part of the rear
(relative to the integrated unit 6) is flattened as shown in Figures 13a and 13b to correspond
to a ledge 33 on the lower rear side of the compartment 11. This reduces the likeihood that
the chamber 12 will be oriented incorrectly in use.           It should be understood that other
methods of achieving the same result could also be used. For example, the chamber 12 and
integrated unit 6 could include complimentary grooves and slots. The chamber 12 can also
include features such as a fill or level line if required. The humidifier inlet port 15 and a
humidifier outlet port 16 arc located in the wall of the humidifier chamber 12, towards the
top of the chamber wall. These are positioned so as to align with the blower inlet and outlet
ports 13 and 14 when the humidifier chamber 12 is in position, fonning the blower-to
humidifier gases route as described above. It is preferred that the corresponding ports on the
blower 7 and humidifier chamber 12 are shaped so as to minimize airgaps. A good seal is
preferred but not required. In the preferred form, the rim or perimeter of the chamber 12
includes a chamber seal 10, formed from soft silicone or similar. When the chamber 12 is
placed in position in the humidifier compartment 11, the chamber seal 10 is pressed against
the wall or walls of the compartment 11, and the body of the chamber 12 and the seal 10
increase the likelihood that the chamber 12 is sealed, so that air exiting the blower through
the port 13 cannot escape to atmosphere. This helps increase the likelihood that a pressurized
airstream enters the humidifier chamber 12 in use. If required, a substantially unbroken ring
of sealing material such as soft silicone can be added to the wall of the compartment 11 at or
close to the upper rim of the chamber 12, to form a compartment seal (not shown) instead of
or as well as the chamber seal 10. In alternative embodiments the ports 13, 14 are surrounded
by resilient sealing gaskets such as silicone gaskets to assist in forming a seal in use. If
preferred, the resilient sealing gaskets around the ports can be used as well as the
compartment and/or chamber seals.
                                                 -14-

         Air enters the humidifier chamber 12 through the humidifier inlet port 15, and passes
along a generally horizontal entry passage 34 towards the centre of the humidifier chamber
12. Passage 34 is offset towards one of the front corners of the unit to align with the inlet
port 13 as described above. The air exits the entry passage 34 through a first aperture or
opening 200 in the centre of the humidifier chamber 12 aligned facing upwards (that is, in the
top of the passage). The air is then directed into the main part of the chamber by a baffle 35.
In cross section, the baffle 35 is T-shaped, with a vertical central portion to deflect gases
entering the chamber 12, and a substantially horizontal top 'umbrella' portion 202, which is
circular in plan view, as shown in Figures 6 and 13. Air is deflected by the baffle 35 as it
exits the passage 34, and then enters the main part of the chamber 12 where it is heated and
humidified. The heated and humidified gases then enter an exit passage 36 on the other side
of the baffle 35 through a second aperture or opening 201, with the air passing through the
exit passage 36 to the chamber exit port 16 and then into the breathing unit outlet port 14, and
on to the user 4 as described above. It can be seen that the baffle 35 prevents air from the
inlet passage 34 from directly entering the exit passage 36 before it has been heated and
humidified. The passage and baffle arrangement also serves the purpose of acting as a splash
baffle as well as an air baffle. Water is obstructed from entering the passages 34 and 36 if the
chamber 12 is tilted while it contains water. The umbrella portion 202 of the baffle 35 acts as
a shield for the passages 34, 36, vertically occluding the apertures 200, 201, so that when a
user is pouring or refilling the chamber 12, the user cannot directly pour into either of the
apertures 200, 201. The top surface of the passages 34, 36 also acts as a shield to prevent a
user pouring water into the passages 34, 36. It is preferred that the exit and entry apertures
200, 201 in the passages 34, 36 face upwards, as this helps to prevent water or liquid in the
chamber splashing into the passages 34, 36, or otherwise entering the passages 34, 36 when
the chamber 12 is tilted. The passages, 34, 36 and the baffle 35 can be generally referred to
as the baffle, or the baffle mechanism.
         In use, the chamber 12 is positioned (in the correct orientation) within the
compartment 11. The lid 32 is then placed on top of the chamber 12. The lid 32 is sized so
that it will pass through the top opening of the integrated unit 6, with the lower surface of the
lid 32, close to the edge, sealing onto the upper edge of the chamber 12. In the preferred
                                               -15-

embodiment, the lid 32 has an edge perimeter portion that is aligned facing downwards. This
has a central recess that is filled with a silicone seal 70 or similar that is pressed onto the
upwards facing edge of the chamber 12 when the lid 32 is in position. This arrangement is
shown in Figure 13. In Figure 13, the handle 22 is also shown vertically above the lid 32
(separate from the lid 32). The lid 32 is sized to fit into the recess shown in the handle 22 (if
the handle shown in Figure 13 is pressed vertically downwards onto the lid 32). If required,
the two contacting portions of the lid 32 and the chamber 12 can also be shaped to improve
the seal between the two. The central part of the lid 32 is bulged upwards so that it will stand
proud of the baffle 35. The lid 32 is placed in position on the chamber 12 once the chamber
12 has been filled. The locking handle 22 is then positioned above the lid 32. As has been
described above, lugs 27 on the circumference of the locking handle 22 engage with
complimentary grooves 26 on the rim 24. In order to engage correctly, it is necessary in the
preferred embodiment for the locking handle 22 to be pressed or pushed downwards, pushing
both the lid 32 and the chamber 12 downwards onto the heater plate 12. The heater plate 12
will give slightly under the downwards pressure, allowing the locking handle 22 to be rotated
so that the lugs 27 engage with the grooves or slots 26.          Once the downwards force is
removed, the chamber 12, lid 32, and locking handle 22 will be pressed upwards by the
reaction force from the heater plate 12, with the assembly held in place by the lugs 27 and
slots 26. In the preferred embodiment, the slots 26 are shaped so that the locking handle 22
cannot be rotated to disengage the lugs 27 without pressing the locking handle 22 downwards
slightly first.
        The locking handle 22 also includes the grip 30, which in the preferred embodiment is
an arched member passing from one side of the handle 22 to the other, sized and shaped so
that a user can pass at least some of their fingers underneath, so as to manipulate the locking
handle 22 and to carry the integrated unit 6 if necessary. In the preferred embodiment, the
locking handle 22 and the lid 32 are separate items, as described. If the handle 22 is used
without the lid 32, the chamber will not be sealed, and the heated, humidified air will escape
or vent to atmosphere before entering the exit port 14. Any air that does enter the port 14
will be at a lower pressure than required, due to the leaking. To increase the likelihood of
correct operation, the lid can be used to seal the chamber in the preferred embodiment. This
                                               -16-

will reduce the likelihood that the unit is used incorrectly. For example, if a user fills the
compartment 11 directly without using the chamber 12, or if a user forgets to place the lid 32
in position.
         In the preferred form, the top portion of the lid 32 fits into a central recess in the
handle 22, as can best be seen in Figure 6b. The lid 32 and the handle 22 are sized so that the
lid 22 will snap-fit and be held in place in the handle 22 to form an integrated lid unit. The
lid 22 can be disengaged from the handle 32 by pressing on its top surface or similar.
However, it is preferred that the snap-fit will keep them engaged in normal usage. As the
handle recess and the lid 22 are circular, they can easily rotate relative to one another when
engaged. When the handle 22 is rotated to disengage it from the integrated unit 6, it will
rotate easily relative to the lid 32 (which will not rotate easily due to the seal on the perimeter
edge). When the handle 22 has been disengaged from the integrated unit 6, it can be lifted
away from the integrated unit 6 to remove both the handle 22 and the lid 32.
         It should be noted that although a round chamber 12, lid 32 and a locking mechanism
(lugs 27 and slots 26) have been described, and locking/ unlocking of the lid 32 is achieved
by rotating the separate locking handle 22, this is not the only way in which this effect can be
achieved. If a different locking mechanism is used in place of the lugs 27 and grooves 26,
chambers with different profiles can be used in place of the round chamber 12 described
above. For example, spring loaded clips could be used, with the clips released by a button
placed in a convenient location, such as on a handle or on the outer surface of the integrated
unit 6. A hinged lid could also be used, with a clip and complimentary catch located on the
lid and the blower unit, to hold the lid closed in use. Alternatively or as well as, the chamber
lid 32 and the locking handle 22 could be integrated as a single unit. This single unit could
either be separable from the integrated unit 6 or the humidifier unit 31, or an integral part of
it, for example a hinged lid similar to that suggested above. The intention of the lid 32 and
handle 22 in the arrangement described above is that a user can easily remove the lid 32 in
order to access the chamber 12 for refilling or similar, and that a user can then easily replace
the lid 32 and handle 22 to hold the lid 32 and the chamber 12 in position inside the assisted
breathing integrated unit 6.
                                                -17-

         It should be noted that as outlined above, use of a round chamber 12, with a generally
square profile integrated unit 6 allows an efficient use of space so that the overall size of the
integrated unit 6 can be minimized. This should be considered if using an alternative layout
or locking mechanism.
         Control Knob
         The preferred form of construction of the control knob assembly including operable
control knob 8, and attachment to the integrated unit 6 will now be described with particular
reference to Figure 14. The knob 8 is manipulable by a user to change the settings of the
integrated unit. This is achieved by twisting and pushing the knob 8 to generate control
signals.
         In the preferred embodiment, the integrated unit 6 includes a removable mounting
plate removable faceplate 37 that removably attaches onto the front face of the integrated unit
6-    e.g. by friction-fit push clips or similar, sufficient to hold the faceplate 37 in place in use
or during transport, but allowing the faceplate 37 to be removed e.g. by pressing a knife blade
under one side and twisting or similar. The faceplate 37 includes an aperture that aligns with
the control screen 9, so that the screen can be viewed through the aperture in use. Figure 14
shows a schematic cross-section of the front surface of the integrated unit 6, viewed from
above. For clarity, the various elements shown in Figure 8 are shown not in contact with one
another. As shown in Figure 14, the face plate 37 includes a concave hollow, depression or
recess 38, into which the knob 8 locates in use. The depression 38 is sized and shaped so that
the knob 8 fits snugly. The bottom of the depression 38 contains a fastening mechanism 39.
In the preferred embodiment, the fastening mechanism 39 is formed as an integral part of the
plate 37. In the preferred embodiment, the fastening mechanism 39 is a ring or crown of
sprung fasteners or fastening clips 39, with their tips or upper portions 60 facing or pointing
inwards. The fastening clips 39 are aligned perpendicular to the base of the depression 38.
The knob 8 is made up of a central, non-rotating portion or button 61 and an outer, rotatable
portion or boss 62 that can be rotated either clockwise or anticlockwise by a user. The outer
portion 62 is ring-shaped, with a central aperture. The inner portion 61 has a T-shape in
cross-section, with fasteners 63 integral with the upright of the T. In use, the fasteners 63
connect with the sprung fasteners 39 to hold the inner portion in position.                The knob
                                                  -18-

assembly is assembled by placing the outer (rotatable) portion 62 of the knob 8 in position in
the depression 38, and then pushing the inner (non- rotatable) portion 61 into position. The
flat upper part of the inner portion acts as a flange to hold the outer portion 62 in position. In
the preferred embodiment, the outer portion 62 also has a slight central hollow, with the
cross-portion of the T-section of the inner portion 62 fitting snugly into this hollow so that
the inner portion 61 and the outer portion 62 together form a flush outer surface.
         What has been described above is the preferred fonn of fastening mechanism to hold
the knob 8 in position on the faceplate 37. However, any suitable fastening mechanism could
be substituted for the one described.
         The knob 8, or more specifically the outer portion 62, is fitted with a ring magnet 45.
The outer portion 62 generally has the form of a hollow cup, with the open face facing
inwards towards the centre of the depression 38 in use. The ring magnet 45 is fitted running
around the inside of the outer portion, just below the rim. The centre of the ring magnet 45 is
aligned with the axis of rotation of the knob 8.       As the outer portion 62 rotates, the ring
magnet 45 also rotates. The front face or wall 50 of the assisted breathing or integrated unit 6
is located behind the faceplate 37. The front face 50 includes an aperture 43, through which
the rearmost part of the depression or recess 38 passes in use. A connector board 44 is
located just behind, and generally planar with, both the faceplate 37 and the front face 50 of
the integrated unit 6. Magnetic or magnetized sections 46 are embedded on the inner surface
of the connector board 44. These are positioned to as to form a generally circular shape,
corresponding to the ring magnet 45, so that the magnetized sections 46 align with the ring
magnet 45.     The magnetic fields of the ring magnet 45 and the magnetized sections 46
(detector magnetic components, or boss detector magnetic components) interact as the knob
is rotated in use. Control circuitry and sensors (not shown) located within the blower unit 6
arc connected to the ring magnet 45 so that as the boss portion 62 of the knob 8 is turned it
can detect the fluctuations of the interacting magnetic fields. In the preferred form, the ring
magnet 45 is continuous (that is, a continuous annular component), but divided into a number
of discrete magnetic sections (That is, there are no physical gaps between the sections). The
number of sections can be varied depending on the number of positions required.               One
advantage of using a ring magnet such as ring magnet 45 is that is has discrete sections. This
                                                -19-

means that as the boss portion of the knob 8 is rotated, it will have a number of discrete
positions, having preferred 'rest' positions as the fields of the magnetized sections 46 and the
fields of the sections of the ring magnet 45 interact to reach an equilibrium point, an effect
known as 'cogging'. The outer portion 62 of the knob 8 will rest at these equilibrium points
until acted on by an external force -      e.g. a user exerting a rotational force on the rotatable
outer portion 62 of knob 8. The knob 8 will therefore tend to naturally 'jump' from one rest
position to the next as it is rotated.     As the relative positions of the magnets 45 and 46
changes, the fluctuations of the relative magnetic fields changes is detected by the sensors,
and the results of the fluctuations arc passed to the control circuitry 300 located inside the
housing of the respirator 7 (e.g. located on the circuit board 44), which alters the output
parameters of the integrated unit 6 according to pre-programmed responses (e.g. altering the
power to the heater base 23, fan speed, etc) as required by a user.
        The preferred form of ring magnet 45 and magnetized sections 46 has been described
above. It should be noted that the positions of the ring magnet 45 and magnetized sections 46
could be reversed. Also, the ring magnet 45 could be composed of discrete sections, with
gaps between them. That is, an annular arrangement of individual magnetic components.
Magnetized sections 46 have been described. These could be actual magnets, or alternatively
these could be electromagnetic elements that act as both magnets and sensors to exert a
cogging force and provide positioning feedback.
        In the preferred embodiment, the knob 8 is also adapted to allow limited movement
along its axis of rotation 51. That is, it can be pressed inwards to act as a button. This can be
achieved in a number of ways. However, in the preferred embodiment, a spring (not shown)
is placed inside the circle or crown of the preferred fonn of fastening mechanism 39. When
compressed, this spring is slightly under compression, and pushes outwards against the knob
8 so that it has a rest position when not depressed and an operative position when depressed.
When pressed inwards towards the integrated unit 6, the spring is compressed slightly more,
and will act to return the knob 8 to its initial position once the pressing force is removed.
The centre of the knob 8 also holds a magnet 48. A corresponding central magnet 49 (or
button detector magnetic component) is located at the centre of the circle formed by sections
46. In a similar fashion to that described above, as the relative positions of the magnets 48
                                                 -20-

and 49 changes, the fluctuations of the relative magnetic fields are detected, and these
changes are passed to a control unit that varies the output parameters of the integrated unit 6
accordingly. For example, using the arrangement described above, the knob 8 can be rotated
clockwise and anticlockwise to scroll between menu options, and then pressed inwards to
choose the option to which the user has scrolled. The knob 8 can also be used as e.g. an
on/off switch, either by scrolling to the required on/off menu choice and pressing, or by
pressing and holding the knob in for a longer period than would naturally occur if the unit 6
was accidentally knocked -      for example 5 seconds. Alternatively, the controls could be set
so that a user is required to pull the knob 8 slightly out from the unit 6 to turn it off
        What has been described above is an assembly where the medical device (blower unit
7) includes a faceplate 37 which includes a recess, and which fits over the front face 50 of the
blower 7. The faceplate is unbroken, in that there arc no apertures or gaps through which
moisture or dirt can enter the medical device. Also, the components external to the blower 7
are not moisture or dirt sensitive, so if they get wet or dirty, their operational effectiveness is
not adversely affected.     It should be noted that what is described above is the preferred
embodiment, and the principles of the operation could be applied equally well to a device
which does not include a separate faceplate, and which has a single flat face (i.e. no recess),
with magnetic elements 46, 63 located behind the face, and the control knob, boss, fastening
mechanism, etc located external to the face. It should also be noted that another possible
variation of the layout described above could also be used, with the front face 50 unbroken
and including a recess, and the faceplate including an aperture through which the control
knob locates into the recess on the faceplate. It should also be noted that the faceplate does
not have to present at all, but is present in the preferred forms.
        Control Menu
        The preferred form of display shown on the display panel 9 is shown in Figure 15. In
the preferred embodiment, the control menu as displayed on the display 9 is a single layer
menu, in order to keep the operation of the unit 6 simple. In the preferred embodiment, the
display is an LCD display, with a circular ring of options around the outside of the display.
The display also can include various indicators (e.g., a smiley face shaped indicator to
indicate compliance or progress toward compliance). At a central portion of the illustrated
                                                 -21-

display 9 is a clock read out (see the inclusion of "am/pm" below the number readout
indicators). In some embodiments, the clock can be adjusted to account for travel to differing
time zones. Such an adjustment can be performed in any suitable manner and can allow for
data logging of compliance data that allows changes in time zones to be reflected in the data.
        In addition, the display indicates a music note just below the numbers and an alarm
bell just to the right of the music note. The music note relates to the ability of the apparatus
to play music files and other sound files. In some embodiments, the sound, audio or music
file can be contained on a media stick, a solid state memory component, a flash drive or the
like. More preferably, the files are contained on a removable memory component. Thus, the
display can facilitate the playback of sound, audio, music files or the like. The alarm bell
relates to the ability of the apparatus to function as an alarm clock. Thus, it is possible to
awaken to music, to fall asleep to music or to be awakened by other sounds.                  See
PCT/NZ2009/000151, filed on July 29, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety. These features improve the user-friendly nature of the device and provide a better
experience for the user when compared with previously marketed breathing assistance
devices.
        As the knob 8 is rotated, each of the options will light up in turn. When the knob is
depressed, that option will be chosen. Once an option is chosen, for example 'Output power',
the level of this parameter can be adjusted by rotating the knob 8 clockwise and
anticlockwise.     A user can then exit this submenu and return to the main menu by, for
example, tapping the knob inwards or pulling it outwards.         The control circuitry can be
programmed as required. Other options can be pre-programmed as required. For example,
pushing and holding in the knob 8 (or pulling it outwards and holding it out) could turn the
unit off. It is preferred that the discrete positions (the 'cogging' positions) that the knob 8
reaches as it is rotated correspond to different menu options.
        Blower Unit
        The internal structure of the blower unit 7 will now be described with reference to
Figures 5 and 7-11. In the preferred embodiment, heater base 23 is located at the bottom of
the compartment 11, as described above.          It should be noted that the blower unit and
humidification chamber could be configured so that the volume of water within the
                                               -22-

humidifier chamber is heated e.g. through the side walls.        That is, contact with a heater
clement or unit through a heat conducting surface on the side wall of the chamber, rather than
on the base of the chamber. This configuration would achieve substantially the same effect.
However, heating through the base is preferred for reasons of simplifying the chamber
construction and overall operation of the heater/humidifier unit.         When 'heater base' is
referred to in this specification, it should be taken to mean heating through the base of the
humidifier chamber, or alternatively the side walls.
        As described above, the integrated unit 6 includes an inlet vent 101 to draw air in
from atmosphere. The integrated unit 6 also includes a mechanism and structure by which a
pressurized air flow is provided from the inlet vent 101 to the humidifier chamber. The vent
101 can be located wherever is convenient on the external surface of the integrated unit 6, but
in the preferred embodiment, as shown in Figures 7 and 8, it is located on the rear face of the
blower unit 7, on the right hand side of the rear face (right hand side when looking forwards).
In the preferred embodiment, air is drawn in through the vent 101 by a fan unit 100 that
provides a pressurized gases stream through the blower unit 7. The pressurized gases stream
is ducted or otherwise directed from the inlet vent 101 through the casing to the humidifier
inlet port 13. The air path and the ducting will be described in detail in the 'Fan Unit and Air
Path' section below. In use, air exits the main body of the blower unit 7 via the inlet port 13
and enters the humidifier chamber 12, where it is humidified and heated, before passing out
of the chamber 12 through the outlet port 14, which is directly connected to the patient outlet
25. The heated humidified gas is then passed to the user 3 via e.g. a conduit 21. The patient
outlet 25 is adapted to enable pneumatic attachment of the patient conduit 21, and in the
preferred embodiment, electrical connection at the outlet 25 is also enabled via an electrical
connector 19.
        As shown in Figures 4 and 6, the inlet port 13 is offset. That is, the port is positioned
facing into or out of the corner of the integrated unit 6 between the side wall and the front
face. In contrast, outlet port 14 is directly aligned with the rear wall of the integrated unit 6.
It can also be seen that the circular compartment 11 is sized to just fit within the generally
square plan view profile of the integrated unit 6. Offsetting the inlet port 13 towards the
                                               -23-

corner allows a more efficient use of the space within the assisted breathing integrated unit 6,
and allows the size of the integrated blower/humidifier unit 6 to be minimized.
        Fan Unit The fan unit and ducting of the preferred embodiment will now be described
with reference to Figures 5, 7-12 and 16. The fan unit 100 is intended to sit in the recess 400
shown in Figure 5b. Air is drawn into the fan unit 100 through an inlet vent 101.          Once
inside the housing, the air is then is drawn upwards into the casing of the fan unit 100
through an aperture 110 in the centre of the casing of the fan unit 100, and is directed
outwards through a duct 120 (shown schematically as hidden detail in Figure 16) to the inlet
13. The duct 120 runs from the recess 400 up between the side wall and the front wall of the
integrated unit 6. The air path through the fan unit is shown by arrows 130. In the preferred
embodiment, fan unit 100 is electromagnetically powered, with magnetic segments 1 11
interacting with electromagnetic coils 112, located above the fan unit 100, as shown in Figure
7. The fan 110 is held in place by a bearing unit 113 that includes a spindle for the fan 1 10.
        Fan Unit and Air Path
        The fan unit and ducting of the preferred embodiment will now be described with
particular reference to Figures 8 to 12. A power supply sub-housing 500 is located within
and integrated with the outer housing or outer shell of the breathing unit 7. The power supply
sub- housing 500 is a rectangular cuboid structure at the rear of the blower unit 7, integrated
as part of the rear wall 80 of the blower unit 7. The cuboid sub-housing 500 shares one of its
two largest faces with the rear wall 80 of the blower unit 7 (although it should be noted that
the outer dimensions of the sub-housing 500 are substantially less than the dimensions of the
rear wall 80).     The other large face 510 is common with the fan recess 400, and the
humidifier aperture 1000. The sub-housing 500 is generally centrally located on the inner
rear wall of the blower unit 7.        Once the unit is assembled, the sub-housing 500 is
substantially closed off from atmosphere and the rest of the internal volume of the outer shell
of the blower unit 7, apart from small apertures necessary for external electrical connections
or similar (not shown). The power supply component board 501 is comprised of electrical
components connected to a mother board, and slotted into the space within the sub-housing
500 during assembly.       It is not necessary to detail or individually number all of the
components used to make up the power supply component board 501, as the make-up and
                                               -24-

variations of the construction of power supply boards is well-known in the art. However, it
should be noted that these components generate heat during use, which cannot dissipate or
vent to atmosphere clue to the power supply being enclosed. This heat therefore builds up,
potentially leading to less efficient operation. It is preferred that the sub- housing 500 is
sealed or enclosed in the sub-housing 500 in this manner in order to protect the components
of the power supply component board 501, so that dirt, moisture or similar cannot enter the
sub-housing 500.     However, the power supply component board could be merely located
within the external casing or shell of the blower unit 7. It should be noted that when 'power
supply' or 'power supply unit' are referred to in this specification, this means either the power
supply sub-housing 500, the power supply component board 501, or both together. In some
embodiments, a power cord that is adapted to be plugged directly into a power supply outlet
(e.g., house power) can extend outward from the housing through one of the front wall, the
side walls or the rear wall.
        In order to help reduce the temperature of the sub-housing 500 and the temperature of
the components of the power supply component board 501 in the sub-housing 500, air from
atmosphere is drawn into the housing by the fan unit 100 and then ducted directly over the
power supply unit sub-housing 500 to cool the power supply component board 501.                It is
preferred that the air is ducted over the sub-housing 500 directly after it enters the outer
housing of the integrated unit 6, as the air will be at its coolest at this point - direct from the
atmosphere. In order to most effectively cool the power supply component board 501 and the
sub-housing 500, the air is ducted over the greatest possible surface area of the sub-housing
500, while still maintaining the integrity and operation of the integrated unit 6, and still
maintaining a practical compact and integrated design.
        Air from atmosphere is drawn in through the air inlet vent 101, the side of which is
substantially the same height as one of the side walls of the sub-housing 500. In the preferred
embodiment, the inlet 101 is directly next to the sub-housing 500. It should also be noted
that in the preferred form, the height of the air inlet 101 is substantially the same as the
dimension of the neighboring wall 502. The air entering the external shell through the inlet
101 therefore immediately contacts the side wall 502 of the sub-housing 500.              This first
contact is made across substantially the entire surface area of the wall, as the height
                                               -25-

dimension of the neighboring vent 101 is substantially the same as the height or length of the
wall 502. This has the advantage that all the air contacting this wall will be at atmospheric
temperature as it contacts the wail. The air is then drawn by the fan 100 upwards and across
the top wall 503 of the sub-housing 500, passing across or over the entire outer surface area
of the top wall 503. The air is then ducted down the other or inner side wall 504 of the sub
housing 500, passing across the entire outer surface area of wall 504. It should be noted that
the walls of the sub-housing 500 are as thin as is practical in order to minimize their
insulating effect, and maximize heat transfer between the air flow and the power supply
board. The air is then drawn inwards, away from the power supply, along the curved path
505, through aperture 506 into the recess 400 and then into the fan unit 100. Air is drawn
into the fan unit 100 through aperture 110, and is then directed outwards through a plenum
chamber or duct 120 inside the blower 7 to the inlet 13 (duct 120 is shown schematically and
for the purposes of illustration only as hidden detail in Figure 16. The representation of the
duct 120 as shown in Figure 16 does not necessarily match the actual path or size of the
duct). The duct 120 runs from the recess 400 up between the right side wall (from behind
looking forwards) and the front wall of the integrated unit 6, up to the blower inlet port 13.
        It can be seen that for an outer casing with a sub-housing 500 and air path configured
in this manner, air passes over the entire surface area of three walls (502, 503, and 504) of the
sub-housing 500, substantially adding to the cooling of the power supply component board
501.   This is the most preferred configuration of the cooling path, as manufacture in this
configuration allows repeatability and a high number of units within design tolerance, while
minimizing costs. It has been found that this configuration gives the most efficient use of
both space and air cooling, allowing a good degree of cooling, while still ensuring the unit 6
can be configured compactly to minimize footprint.         It should be noted that if the power
supply component board 501 is not enclosed in a sub-housing, the cooling air can be ducted
directed over the board and the components thereon. Other configurations are possible. For
example, the air could be ducted along a space between the large wall 510 of the sub-housing
500, and the rear wall of the humidifier aperture 1000.         However, in order to make this
configuration work effectively, without the air in this space stagnating, the gap between the
fan recess 400 and the power supply sub-housing 500 has to be over a certain size, arid this
                                               -26-

can detract from the overall compact nature of the overall structure. Furthermore, it can add
to the manufacturing difficulty.      It should also be noted that the blower unit could be
redesigned to allow the air path to pass over the lower wall of the sub-housing, as well as or
instead of, the side and upper walls.
        As described above, the sub-housing 500 is located at the rear of the blower unit 7. It
could of course be located anywhere suitable, such as the sides or base, with the air ducting
and inlet configured and located accordingly.       The rear is preferred as this configuration
allows the other elements of the blower unit to be configured to minimize the overall device
'footprint'.
        In the most preferred form, the outer surfaces of the walls 502, 503 and 504 are
ribbed, in order to increase the surface area available for cooling and to aid in heat dissipation
by acting in a similar manner to heat sinks. Also, in the most preferred form, air flows over
at least two and preferably three walls of the sub-housing 500 in order to maximize the
cooling.
        Carry Case
        As has been noted above, one problem that can occur when a user packs their
breathing assistance apparatus in a case for towel is forgetting to empty the humidifier
chamber, and the contents may then spill during travel, causing at least inconvenience. It is a
long felt want by users of domestic breathing assistance apparatus that this problem is
addressed.
        In the preferred embodiment, a carry case 600 is used with the integrated unit 6
described above to help overcome this problem. When a user wishes to pack their breathing
assistance device for transport, the carry case 600 can be used.
        The carry case 600 is shown in Figures 18-20. The carry case 600 is formed from a
rigid plastic in the preferred embodiment. The case 600 in the preferred form comes in two
parts or halves, an upper half 604 and a lower half 605 ('half is used in this context as a term
of convenience and does not necessarily indicate that the upper and lower halves are required
to be exactly or even close to the same size). In the closed position, the carry case 600 has
one generally fiat end 601, with the opposite end 602 coming to a rounded point when
viewed side on. It is preferred that end 602 includes a handle 609 to aid a user in transporting
                                               -27-

the case 600. In the preferred form, the handle 609 is formed when the case is closed, the
upper and lower halves 604, 605 including apertures that align to form one aperture when the
case is closed, a user gripping the handle portion thus formed. The parts that form the handle
are preferably rounded, and sized to facilitate their acting as a handle. The case 600 can be
stood upright and rested on the flat end, or end base 601, in use. Alternatively, the carry case
can be rested on the side base 603 which forms the lower side of the lower half 605.             It
should be noted that 'upper' and 'lower' are only directional indicators when the carry case
600 is resting on the side base 603. The two halves are connected by lunges - the upper half
604 attached to the lower half 605 so that the case can be opened by e.g. rotating or pivoting
the upper half 605 relative to the stationary lower half 605, with the case 600 resting on side
base 603, for packing or unpacking. In the fully closed position, the edges of the two come
together to enclose a volume of space or an internal volume of the case. The hinges arc
adapted to allow the two halves a full range of movement -       e.g. substantially 180 degrees of
rotation relative to one another. This allows the upper half 604 to be rotated far enough that
its outer surface can rest on the same surface as the lower half 605, for example a table or
similar, and a user can freely access the inside of the case. In the preferred embodiment, the
hinges 610 are located at the flat end 601, and form part of the flat base in use. The inside
contains packaging or padding 606, in the preferred form including a pocket or recess 608
formed by moulding and shaping the padding 606, so that the pocket 608 conforms generally
to the external shape and dimensions of the blower unit 7. so that at least the lower portion of
the blower unit can be placed in the recess 608 in the packaging 606 in an upright position,
with the packaging or padding 606 partially enclosing at least the lower portion of the blower
unit 7, to hold the blower unit 7 securely in position during transport. As described above, the
preferred form of chamber 31 is a top fill chamber with a removable lid 32. To prevent the
user from inadvertently packing their integrated unit 6 away with chamber 31 still partially
full and containing liquid, the carry case 600 is adapted in the following manner so that the
case 600 cannot be closed fully if the lid 32 is still in position on the chamber 31. It should
be noted at different forms of the carry case could be used to transport other types of systems
that provide heated, humidified gases to a user. For example, systems that have push fit
chambers filled through their inlets or outlets, rather than through a top fill aperture.
                                               -28-

        When the user needs to transport their integrated blower/humidifier unit, the user
packs the integrated unit 6 in the carry case 600 by placing the integrated unit 6 in recess 608
in the packaging 606, the recess 608 shaped to enclose at least the base of the integrated unit
6. It is intended that the case 600 is as compact as possible. This helps a user to transport
their unit as, for example, hand luggage on an aircraft, as it can be fitted in an overhead
locker. Therefore, in the preferred form, the humidifier chamber 31 is located in the same
position in which it is used in the blower 7, and not in a separate recess. The upper half 604
of the case 600 includes at least one protrusion 607 extending inwards from the inner surface
of the upper half 604 (i.e. downwards towards lower half 605). The at least one protrusion
607 is sized and shaped so that the upper half and lower half 604, 605 cannot be brought fully
together (i.e. the case 600 cannot be closed) when the humidifier chamber lid 32 is still in
position on the chamber 31. When the humidifier chamber lid 31 is removed, the protrusion
or protrusions 607 fit down inside the chamber 31. The lid 32 therefore has to be removed
from the chamber 31 before the carry case 600 can be shut. It is preferred that the separate
handle 22 can be located onto the blower unit 7, with the protrusion or protrusions 607
extending past the handle 22 to extend downwards into the chamber 31. The carry case 600
is preferably adapted to include an internal pocket or similar -     e.g. in the packaging 606
which the user can use to store the lid 32 for travel.
        It is preferred that the carry case can also be fitted with a strap or straps, to allow it to
be carried in the same manner that a day sack or small knapsack would be carried, or slung
over one shoulder and carried by one strap.
        It should be noted that blower unit 7 is used as an example for the above described
preferred form of carry case. In other, alternative forms, the carry case is adapted to carry
respiratory humidification systems of the type where the humidifier chamber and the blower
unit rigidly mate. In this alternative form, the padding includes a first pocket and a second
pocket. The first pocket is adapted to enclose at least the base of the blower unit, and the
second pocket is adapted to at least partly enclose the humidifier chamber. The two pockets
are separate, so that the humidifier chamber will be disconnected from the blower before the
chamber and the blower can be placed in their respective pockets. That is, the blower and the
chamber cannot be mated to be correctly stored in the case in their respective pockets. The
                                                -29-

inner surface of the upper half includes a protrusion, facing inwards.           When the case is
closed, the protrusion locates into a space adjacent to the blower pocket, and increases the
likelihood that the blower cannot be placed into the first pocket with the chamber rigidly
mated to the blower, and the lid them closed. The protrusion will interfere with the chamber
if a user attempts to close the lid while the chamber is in position on the blower.
         To provide for increased compliance, the device described above has been designed
with a number of features. For example, the user-friendliness of the device may be important
in improving compliance. For this reason, the display has been positioned on the front face
of the unit, which improves user-friendliness. In addition, the display has been designed to
incorporate a clock.        Moreover, in some configurations, the clock is designed to
accommodate changes in time zones for travelers.           The display also has been designed to
provide compliance feedback to the user, such as through a smiley face shaped indicator.
The device also has been designed with a control knob interface that is easy to use and
provides a user-friendly experience in controlling the device. To improve usability, the kmob
is positioned adjacent to the display.
         Similarly, a device that is aesthetically pleasing has been found to promote interaction
and reduce cognitive distance as a barrier to therapy. Thus, the illustrated device has been
designed to incorporate into a single small footprint housing several components that
previously were provided as separate components.              For example, the illustrated device
integrates into a single housing the blower unit, the humidifier unit and the power supply. In
so doing, the illustrated device resembles a larger alarm clock and blends more aesthetically
with the environment of a bedroom.         In fact, the illustrated device includes the abilities to
play music or sound files and to set alarms, which emulates features normally found on alarm
clocks, such that the device can replace an alarm clock in a bedroom setting. Moreover, the
smaller footprint allows the illustrated device to fit comfortably in its entirety on a bedside
stand. Furthermore, the illustrated device has been designed with few, if any, sharp corners
such that the device takes on a sleek appearance.
         Through the incorporation of one or more of the above-described features, the
illustrated device has been found to elicit positive emotional and cognitive responses from
patients. As a result, OSA patients have been found to use the illustrated device more than
                                                 -30-

devices with a different aesthetic and user interface. The above-described features result in
the positive user response and this translates into increased compliance. A discussion of an
online survey and compliance study are found below.
         Over a period of time, OSA patients were invited to take part in an online survey. A
total of 179 people completed the survey, of which 169 (94%) said they were diagnosed with
OSA. Of the 158 people who said they used a CPAP device, 55 (35%) used a ResMed
device, 52 (33%) used a Fisher & Paykel Healthcare device, and 38 (24%) used a Respironics
device. When first diagnosed with OSA, the majority of respondents (52%) had a negative
initial reaction ('freaked out', 'confused and overwhelmed') to having to use a CPAP device
while 44% had a positive responses ('excitement', 'finally, some relief!'). In contrast, 48%
of respondents reported positive initial reactions to the ICONTM and only 19% reported
negative reactions. When shown a picture of the illustrated device, 59% of those who had
not seen it before reported positive responses while only 4% had a negative initial response to
the product. This is clear evidence of the positive psychological impact of the illustrated
device.
         Positive comments on the illustrated device included: 'Nice machine, easy to use',
'... better design...',  '...stylish  looking machine',   'looks good',   and 'it's  small and
compact...'    These comments are strongly related to the emotional (aesthetic) and cognitive
(ease of use) elements.       Specific features that were identified as more likely to promote
CPAP usage included ease of use, user-friendly interface, small and compact size, small
number of connecting parts, internal power supply, discreet, rounded with smooth edges, and
sleek looking. After seeing the features and a picture of the illustrated device, almost half
(87, 49%) of respondents said they would be more likely to use the illustrated device than
their current CPAP device.
         Current CPAP users who had a Fisher & Paykel Healthcare device were asked to try
the illustrated device with the same settings as their previous device.        After one week,
compliance with the illustrated device was compared to the compliance with the previous
device. A total of 18 patients completed the study. On the days when CPAP was used, the
compliance with the illustrated device was, on average, higher than the previous device.
                                                -31-

When compliance is calculated including days when the CPAP was not used, the illustrated
device was used for about 66 minutes more than the previous device.
         All technological settings were kept the same as the previous device in this study so
the only difference was the style and function of the illustrated device. It is possible that
some of the increase in due to the Hawthorne effect (simply by being in a study, the behavior
of participants is altered). However, the increase in compliance is rather large to be only due
to this.   The only known comparable study was recently completed by ResMed where
patients were given a new S9 device and it was shown that they used it for, on average, 30
minutes more per night. This is under half what was shown by the Fisher & Paykel study.
         Improved perception of treatment and more positive emotional and cognitive states
result in increased adherence to therapy. As discussed above, the illustrated device elicits
more positive emotional and cognitive responses from OSA patients due to the style and
features in the design of the device.      This has also translated into over 1 hour longer
compliance with the illustrated device as compared to equivalent therapy on an older device.
         Although the present invention has been described in terms of a certain embodiment,
other embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art also are within the scope of
this invention.   Thus, various changes and modifications may be made without departing
from the spirit and scope of the invention.        For instance, various components may be
repositioned as desired.     Moreover, not all of the features, aspects and advantages are
necessarily required to practice the present invention. Accordingly, the scope of the present
invention is intended to be defined only by the claims that follow.
                                              -32-

        WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      A positive airway pressure device configured to improve patient compliance
by providing an improved user-friendliness and by reducing cognitive distance as a barrier to
therapy, the positive airway pressure device comprising
                 a housing comprising an outer surface, the outer surface comprising a front
        wall;
                 a control knob and a control display positioned on the front wall, the control
        display comprising a clock display;
                 a blower unit, a humidification compartment and an internal power supply all
        disposed within the housing; and
                 the housing having a footprint of less than about 40,000 mm 2 whereby the
        housing that contains the blower unit, the humidification compartment and the
        internal power supply comfortably fits on an average bedside stand.
        2.       The positive airway pressure device of Claim 1, wherein the humidification
compartment is adapted to receive a humidifier chamber, the humidifier chamber being
adapted to hold at least about 420 ml of water.
        3.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2,
wherein an upper portion of the humidification compartment is covered by a removable lid,
the lid being removably attached to the housing.
        4.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the
removable lid defines a handhold location for carrying of the positive airway pressure device,
        5.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4,
wherein the housing further comprises a first side surface and a second side surface each
extending rearward from the front surface, a smooth contour being formed by the front
surface, the first side surface and the second side surface.
        6.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in Claim 5, wherein an inlet to
the blower unit is fluidly connected to ambient air and extends through at least one of the
front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall.
        7.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6,
wherein the display comprises a smiley face shaped indicator.
                                                -33-

        8.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims I to 7,
wherein the control display facilitates playing of sound or music files from a removable
memory source.
        9.       The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 8,
further comprising an airflow outlet extending from one of the front wall, the first side wall,
the second side wall and the rear wall, the airflow outlet being pivotable or rotatable relative
to the housing, the airflow outlet being connected to one of the humidification chamber and
one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall.
         10.     The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9,
wherein the clock display is time-zone adjustable.
         11.     The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 10,
wherein the humidifier chamber is dishwashable.
         12.     The positive airway pressure device as claimed in any one of Claims I to 11,
wherein the internal power supply comprises a power cord that is adapted to be plugged
directly into a power supply outlet, the power cord extending outward from the housing
through one of the front wall, the first side wall, the second side wall and the rear wall.
         13.     A method of improving patient compliance with a program of continuous
positive airway pressure therapy, the method comprising providing a positive airway pressure
device that comprises means for generating positive emotional and cognitive states of a user
about the therapy.
         14.     A positive pressure device as described herein and with reference to the
accompanying figures.
         15.     A method of improving patient compliance with a program of continuous
positive airway pressure therapy as described herein.
                                                 -34-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
