                                                       ABSTRACT
   A     simulated              abdominal              wall        model          that         is       ideal         for
   practicing            laparoscopic                first        entry        surgical          techniques            is
 5 provided.            The       model         includes           a     simulated            abdominal             wall
   portion         captured            between          two      frame        elements          of     a    support.
   The       support         is      connectable                to     a     surgical           trainer.            When
   connected           to     the      trainer,            the     model        provides            a   penetrable
   abdominal           tissue          portion           for     accessing            an    internal            cavity
10 of     the     trainer.             The       simulated            abdominal            wall        includes           a
   plurality             of      layers           including             a     skin       layer,           a     fabric
   posterior            rectus          sheath          layer,         a    simulated             fat      layer       of
   low-resilience                 polyurethane                 foam       and      at    least         two      layers
   that       provide          distinctive               haptic         feedback          upon        penetration
15 of     the     simulated             transversalis                 fascia          and     muscle          layers.
   The        simulated               abdominal                wall         includes               a      simulated
   umbilicus across                   several layers of simulated tissue.

                     2/10
                                          34          20
                                                    30
                                                         32
   fg. 3                                                    32
                            222
                                                         24
          26
                    28                    32
   +ig 4             92                94             62
                                                42a         64
                                           --      4212
             S2 ...       .   ..... ..
                                              42b
                                                -   2        e
                                                               4
                                                                  46
60                                                                    48
                                                                      50
                                                                      52
       00                                         00           54
                                                                   56
                                                                 --- 58

                                   FIRST ENTRY MODEL
                          Cross-Reference to Related Applications
        [0001]        This application claims priority to and benefit of U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 61/857,982 filed on July 24, 2013 entitled "First entry
model" and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/971,714 filed on March 28,
2014 entitled "First entry model" both of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entireties.
                                    Field of the Invention
        [0002]        This application relates to surgical training tools, and in particular,
to simulated tissue structures and models for teaching and practicing surgical
procedures.
                                 Background of the Invention
        [0003]        Laparoscopic surgery requires several small incisions in the
abdomen for the insertion of trocars or small cylindrical tubes approximately 5 to 10
millimeters in diameter through which surgical instruments and a laparoscope are
placed into the abdominal cavity. The laparoscope illuminates the surgical field and
sends a magnified image from inside the body to a video monitor giving the surgeon a
close-up view of the organs and tissues. The surgeon watches the live video feed and
performs the operation by manipulating the surgical instruments placed through the
trocars.
        [0004]        The first step in laparoscopic surgery is to make a small incision to
access and create pneumoperitoneum. Pneumoperitoneum is the insufflation of the
abdominal cavity with carbon dioxide gas. Insufflation with gas creates a working space
in the abdomen necessary for laparoscopy. Once a proper working space has been
created, surgical instruments can be inserted for performing a laparoscopic procedure.
This process of penetrating the abdomen and creating pneumoperitoneum prior to
insertion of other instruments is called first entry. There are many different ways to
achieve pneumoperitoneum. One option is using a Veress needle. A Veress needle is
approximately 12-15 centimeters long with a diameter of approximately 2 millimeters.
The surgeon inserts the spring-loaded needle into the abdomen of the patient after
                                              1

making a small incision. When the needle breaches the inner abdominal space, the
spring-loaded inner stylet springs forward to cover the sharp needle in order protect
internal organs. The surgeon relies on the tactile feedback of the needle and spring for
proper placement. Once proper entry is confirmed, carbon dioxide is introduced
through the Veress needle and into the abdominal cavity of the patient expanding the
abdomen to creating a working space.
        [0005]         Another option is a Hasson technique or cut down technique in
which the surgeon makes an initial incision at the umbilicus and the tissue is bluntly
dissected. A suture is placed on either side of the incision into the fascia layer to help
hold the device in place. The supraperitoneal tissue is dissected away and the
peritoneum is incised to enter the abdominal cavity. At this point, a Hasson trocar is
inserted into the incision. The Hasson trocar has a blunt tip with suture ties and/or a
balloon to hold it in place. After the trocar is placed into the incision, the device is
secured with sutures and/or the balloon and carbon dioxide gas is pumped into the
patient through the trocar to achieve pneumoperitoneum.
        [0006]         Another option is direct trocar entry. In this option, the surgeon
uses a bladed or non-bladed trocar either optically or non-optically. The trocar is placed
through the layers of the abdominal wall after the initial skin incision is made. When
used optically, a camera is inserted into the trocar before entry. After the initial incision
is made, the trocar is placed through the layers of the abdomen. Since the camera is
present, all of the layers of the abdominal wall can be observed during penetration.
Once the surgeon sees that he or she has broken through the peritoneum, penetration
can halt, the obturator tip of the trocar pulled back slightly or removed entirely and
insufflation can commence by pumping carbon dioxide gas in through the cannula to
create pneumoperitoneum.
        [0007]         Another option involves a specialized first entry trocar such as the
FIOS @ first entry trocar made by Applied Medical Resources Corporation in California.
Like optical direct trocar entry, a camera is inserted into the FIOS @ trocar and the
abdominal wall layers are observed during insertion into the abdominal cavity. The
specialized FIOS @ trocar has a small vent hole in the tip such that instead of requiring
that the obturator of the trocar be pulled back or removed completely to introduce
                                               2

carbon dioxide through the cannula, carbon dioxide gas is introduced through the small
vent hole in the tip of the obturator with the camera in place. Because carbon dioxide
can be introduced through the tip, the FIOS @ trocar does not have to penetrate as
deeply into the abdominal cavity as a traditional trocar, thereby, affording internal
organs greater protection before insufflation can commence. Also, because the
obturator does not have to be pulled back or removed, observation via the inserted
camera can take place at the point of insufflation.
         [0008]         In addition to the above options for entering the abdominal cavity,
generally, there are two common places on the abdomen that a surgeon must know
how to enter. The most widely used location for first entry is the umbilicus. The
umbilicus is a natural weakening in the abdomen where the umbilical cord was attached
in the womb. In this part of the abdomen, there are no rectus muscles, arteries or veins
so it is generally easier to reach the abdominal cavity. Additionally, the umbilicus is
typically an easy place to hide a scar. When surgeons use the umbilicus as an entry
site, particularly for the Hasson technique, clamps are often used to grab the base of
the umbilicus and the umbilicus is inverted. At this point, an incision is made and the
surgeon cuts down as desired and inserts the trocar or Veress needle. With optical
entry, the surgeon is able to see all the layers of the abdominal wall. In this location of
penetration, they are able to see the fatty tissue, linea alba, transversalis fascia and,
finally, the peritoneum. Additionally, when entering at the umbilicus, the umbilical stalk
should also be visible. The stalk is what remains of the umbilical cord and it stretches
from the skin making up the umbilicus to the peritoneal layer.
         [0009]         If a patient has had a previous surgery and adhesions are
suspected or a hernia is present at the site of the umbilicus, first entry may need to
occur at another location. In this case, the surgeon will often enter from the left upper
quadrant since there is less chance of damaging a vital organ in this location. The left
upper quadrant is different from the umbilicus region in that there are muscle layers.
The rectus abdominus muscles run parallel with the patient's abdomen and are found
on either side of the patient's midline. Underneath the rectus abdominus muscles run
the inferior epigastric veins and arteries which the surgeon must be careful to avoid.
When a surgeon is entering the upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity optically, he or
                                               3

she is able to see the skin, fatty tissue, anterior rectus sheath, rectus abdominus, the
epigastric vein, which runs through the posterior rectus sheath, and finally, the
peritoneum. If the left upper quadrant is not an ideal position for a port, the surgeon
may choose to enter at another location such as sub-xiphoid where subcutaneous fat,
rectus sheath and peritoneum are present.
        [0010]        Since there are many options for first entry, it is important that
surgeons have a way to learn and practice the various techniques. There is a need for
an anatomical model of the umbilical region and surrounding abdomen that is
anatomically correct and includes all the layers of the abdominal wall as well as the
veins and arteries that run through the wall. Not only does the model have to be
anatomically correct, but also, the model must provide a realistic aural and tactile
sensation. For example, when using a Veress needle, two pops are generally felt as
the surgeon pushes the needle through the abdominal wall. For optical entry, the
surgeon needs to view all of the appropriate tissue layers in the abdominal wall. For
entry through the umbilicus, the surgeon must be able to grasp and invert the umbilicus.
Also, the model must be able to be used with all four first entry techniques and at
multiple (umbilical and upper left quandrant at minimum) entry sites.
                                  Summary of the Invention
        [0011]        According to one aspect of the invention, a simulated tissue
structure is provided. The simulated tissue structure includes a support and an artificial
anatomical portion. The artificial anatomical portion is configured to simulate a region of
an abdominal wall. The anatomical portion is connected to the support such that the
anatomical portion is penetrable from a first side to a second side of the anatomical
portion. The anatomical portion includes a plurality of simulated tissue layers arranged
in juxtaposition with each other. The simulated tissue layers include a simulated skin
layer located above the remaining layers. Each of the remaining layers has an opening
extending through the layer. The simulated skin layer has a top surface and a bottom
surface. The top surface of the simulated skin layer defines a first side of the
anatomical portion. The anatomical portion includes a tubular structure having a
proximal end and a distal opening at a distal end. The distal end of the tubular extends
                                              4

through one or more of the openings in the remaining layers. In one variation, the
proximal end of the tubular structure is connected to the simulated skin layer. The
anatomical portion further includes a simulated peritoneum layer having a top surface
and a bottom surface. The bottom surface of the simulated peritoneum layer forms the
second side of the anatomical portion. The anatomical portion further includes a first
layer having a top surface and a bottom surface. The bottom surface of the first layer
overlays the top surface of the simulated peritoneum layer. The anatomical portion
includes a second layer having a top surface and a bottom surface and the bottom
surface of the second layer overlays the top surface of the first layer. The anatomical
portion further includes a third layer having a top surface and a bottom surface. The
bottom surface of the skin layer overlays the top surface of the third layer. The first
layer is made of closed cell polyethylene foam. The second layer is made of fibrous
material. The third layer is made of memory polyurethane foam.
        [0012]        According to another aspect of the invention, a surgical simulation
system is provided. The system includes an abdominal wall model. The model
includes a support and an artificial anatomical portion. The artificial anatomical portion
is configured to simulate a region of an abdominal wall. The anatomical portion is
connected to the support such that the anatomical portion is penetrable from a first side
to a second side of the anatomical portion. The anatomical portion includes a plurality
of simulated tissue layers arranged in juxtaposition with each other. The simulated
tissue layers including a simulated skin layer located above the remaining layers. The
simulated skin layer has a top surface and a bottom surface. The top surface of the
simulated skin layer defines a first side of the anatomical portion. The surgical
simulation system includes a trainer. The trainer includes a base and a top cover
having a top surface and a bottom surface. The top cover is connected to and spaced
apart from the base to define an internal cavity between the top cover and the base.
The top cover has a first opening and the abdominal wall model is removably located
inside the first opening. The model is connected to the top cover such that penetration
of the anatomical portion provides access to the internal cavity of the trainer.
        [0013]        According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated tissue
structure configured to simulate an abdominal wall is provided. The simulated
                                              5

abdominal wall structure includes a simulated skin layer having a top surface and a
bottom surface. The simulated abdominal wall structure includes a simulated fat layer
having a top surface and a bottom surface. The bottom surface of the simulated skin
layer overlays the top surface of the simulated fat layer. A first simulated muscle layer
having a top surface and a bottom surface is included. A second simulated muscle
layer having a top surface and a bottom surface is included. The simulated abdominal
wall structure further includes a third layer having a top surface and a bottom surface.
The third layer is located between the first and second simulated muscle layers. A
fourth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface is provided. A fifth layer having a
top surface and a bottom surface is also included. The bottom surface of the fourth
layer overlays the top surface of the fifth layer. The simulated abdominal wall structure
includes a simulated peritoneum layer having a top surface and a bottom surface. The
bottom surface of the fifth layer overlays the top surface of the simulated peritoneum
layer. The fourth layer is made of fabric. The simulated fat layer is made of
polyurethane memory foam. The simulated skin layer is made of silicone. The third
and fifth layers are made of closed cell polyethylene foam.
        [0014]        According to another aspect of the invention, a simulated tissue
structure is provided. The simulated tissue structure includes a support and an artificial
anatomical portion. The support includes a top frame defining a top opening and a
bottom frame defining a bottom opening. The artificial anatomical portion is configured
to simulate a region of an abdominal wall. The artificial anatomical portion is connected
to the support between the top frame and the bottom frame such that the anatomical
portion is penetrable through the top opening and bottom opening. The anatomical
portion includes a first layer having a top surface and a bottom surface and a second
layer having a top surface and a bottom surface. The second layer has a second
opening and the bottom surface of the first layer overlays the top surface of the second
layer. The anatomical portion includes third layer having a top surface and a bottom
surface. The third layer has a third opening or gap and the bottom surface of the
second layer overlays the top surface of the third layer. A fourth layer having a top
surface and a bottom surface is provided. The fourth layer has a fourth opening or gap
and the bottom surface of the third layer overlays the top surface of the fourth layer. A
                                              6

fifth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface is provided. The fifth layer has a
fifth opening or gap and the bottom surface of the fourth layer overlays the top surface
of the fifth layer. A sixth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface is provided.
The sixth layer has a sixth opening or gap and the bottom surface of the fifth layer
overlays the top surface of the sixth layer. A seventh layer having a top surface and a
bottom surface is provided. The seventh layer has a seventh opening and the bottom
surface of the sixth layer overlays the top surface of the seventh layer. An eighth layer
having a top surface and a bottom surface is provided. The eighth layer has an eighth
opening and the eighth layer is located under the seventh layer. A ninth layer having a
top surface and a bottom surface is provided. The ninth layer has a ninth opening and
the bottom surface of the eighth layer overlays the top surface of the ninth layer. The
third opening/gap, fourth opening/gap, fifth opening/gap and sixth opening/gap are
elongate substantially in alignment with each other when the layers are overlayed and
have a width and length that extends along a longitudinal axis. The second opening,
seventh opening, eighth opening and ninth opening are substantially in alignment with
each other and smaller than the elongate openings/gaps of the third opening/gap, fourth
opening/gap, fifth opening/gap and sixth opening/gap. All of the openings/gaps overlap
at least in part to provide passage of a simulated umbilicus.
         [0015]         According to another aspect of the invention, a method for
manufacturing a simulated skin layer for a simulated abdominal wall is provided. A
mold is provided. The mold includes a cavity having a first depth and a first well inside
the cavity having a second depth greater than the first depth. A core is located inside
the first well. A silicone mixture is poured into the mold cavity and first well. The
silicone is cured inside the mold to form an artificial skin layer having a top surface and
a bottom surface and a tubular structure extending from the top surface. The tubular
structure is formed with a lumen that defines an opening in the layer at the proximal end
and an opening at a distal end. The tubular structure is inverted by passing the distal
end of the tubular structure through the opening. A thicker portion is formed around the
first well. The opening at the proximal end of the tubular structure is sealed closed with
adhesive to simulate an umbilicus.
                                              7

         [0016]        According to one aspect of the invention, a model that allows users
to practice first entry surgical procedures is provided. The first entry model includes an
anatomical portion connected to a support. The anatomical portion includes a plurality
of anatomical layers that is captured between two frame elements which can attach to a
laparoscopic trainer.
                               Brief Description of the Drawings
         [0017]        FIG. 1 is a top perspective view of a first entry model according to
the present invention.
         [0018]        FIG. 2 is top perspective view of a first entry model according to the
present invention.
         [0019]        FIG. 3 is a top perspective view of a laparoscopic trainer for use
with a first entry model according to the present invention.
         [0020]        FIG. 4 is a side, exploded view of an anatomical portion of a first
entry model according to the present invention.
         [0021]        FIG. 5 is a side view of an anatomical portion of a first entry model
according to the present invention.
         [0022]        FIG. 6 is a top planar view that is representative of more than one
layer in an anatomical portion of a first entry model according to the present invention.
         [0023]        FIG. 7 is a top planar view that is representative of more than one
layer in an anatomical portion of a first entry model according to the present invention.
         [0024]        FIG. 8 is top perspective, exploded view of a mold for a skin layer
of a first entry model according to the present invention.
         [0025]        FIG. 9 is a side, cross-sectional view of a mold for a skin layer for a
first entry model according to the present invention.
         [0026]        FIG. 10 is a top perspective view of a mold for a skin layer for a first
entry model according to the present invention.
         [0027]        FIG. 11 is a top perspective view of a mold for a skin layer for a first
entry model according to the present invention.
         [0028]        FIG. 12 is a side, cross-sectional view of a mold for a skin layer for
a first entry model according to the present invention.
                                               8

        [0029]         FIG. 13 is an exploded view of a first entry model according to the
present invention.
        [0030]         FIG. 14 is a side view of an anatomical portion of a first entry model
according to the present invention.
        [0031]         FIG. 15 is a bottom planar view of a transversalis fascia layer and
umbilical stalk according to the present invention.
        [0032]         FIG. 16A is an end view of a standard first entry model connected
to a top cover of a trainer according to the present invention.
        [0033]         FIG. 16B is an end view of an obese first entry model connected to
a top cover of a trainer according to the present invention.
        [0034]         FIG. 17 is a top planar view that is representative of more than one
layer in an anatomical portion of a first entry model according to the present invention.
        [0035]         FIG. 18 is a top planar view that is representative of more than one
layer in an anatomical portion of a first entry model according to the present invention.
        [0036]         FIG. 19 is a top planar view that is representative of more than one
layer in an anatomical portion of a first entry model according to the present invention.
                              Detailed Description of the Invention
        [0037]         Turning now to FIG. 1, there is shown a model 10 of an abdominal
region that includes the umbilicus for practicing surgical first entry into the abdominal
cavity for performing laparoscopic surgical procedures. Throughout this specification
the model 10 will be referred to as the first entry model 10. The model 10 includes an
anatomical portion 12 connected to a support 14 to form a substantially planar
configuration. The support 14 is a frame that encompasses and connects to the
perimeter of the anatomical portion 12 and holds the anatomical portion 12 together. In
particular, the support 14 includes a top frame and a bottom frame made of plastic
material sufficiently rigid to provide structural support and maintain the planar shape of
the model 10 and permit the center-located anatomical portion to be penetrated from
one side to the other. In one variation, the model 10 is slightly curved to mimic an
outwardly curved abdomen. The top frame and the bottom frame connect together
capturing the perimeter of the anatomical portion 12 between the top and bottom
                                               9

frames. The model 10 in FIG. 1 is polygonal having five sides forming a slightly
elongated shape wherein one side is curved outwardly in a generally U-shaped
configuration. A model 10 having a circular support 14 that frames a circular anatomical
portion 12 is shown in FIG. 2. The model 10 can be any shape. The frame 14 includes
connecting elements 16 configured for connecting the model 10 to a larger laparoscopic
trainer 20 as shown in FIG. 3.
        [0038]        Turning now to FIG. 3, a laparoscopic trainer 20 includes a top
cover 22 connected to a base 24 by a pair of legs 26 spacing the top cover 22 from the
base 24. The laparoscopic trainer 20 is configured to mimic the torso of a patient such
as the abdominal region. The top cover 22 is representative of the anterior surface of
the patient and a space 28 defined between the top cover 22 and the base 24 is
representative of an interior of the patient or body cavity where organs reside. The
laparoscopic trainer 20 is a useful tool for teaching, practicing and demonstrating
various surgical procedures and their related instruments in simulation of a patient.
When assembled, the top cover 22 is positioned directly above the base 24 with the
legs 26 located substantially at the periphery and interconnected between the top cover
22 and base 24 The top cover 22 and base 24 are substantially the same shape and
size and have substantially the same peripheral outline. The laparoscopic trainer 20
includes a top cover 22 that angulates with respect to the base 24. The legs 26 are
configured to permit the angle of the top cover 22 with respect to the base 24 to be
adjusted. FIG. 3 illustrates the trainer 20 adjusted to an angulation of approximately 30
45 degrees with respect to the base 24. A laparoscopic trainer 20 is described in co
pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/248,449 entitled "Portable laparoscopic
trainer" and filed on September 29, 2011 by Pravong et al. to Applied Medical
Resources Corporation and published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
2012/0082970, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
        [0039]        For practicing various surgical techniques, surgical instruments are
inserted into the cavity 28 of the laparoscopic trainer 20 through pre-established
apertures 30 in the top cover 22. These pre-established apertures 30 may include seals
that simulate trocars or may include simulated tissue that simulates the patient's skin
and abdominal wall portions. For example, the circular first entry model 10 depicted in
                                              10

FIG. 2 is connected to the top cover 22 in the location of the central circular aperture 30
that has a conforming circular shape. The top cover 22 of the laparoscopic trainer 20 is
configured with a removable insert 32 that is replaceable with the first entry model 10
depicted in FIG. 1. The insert 32, which is provided with apertures 30, has a shape that
conforms to an opening in the top cover 22. When the insert 32 is removed, the first
entry model 10, such as the one depicted in FIG. 1, having a conforming shape is
inserted into the opening in the top cover 20 and the connecting elements 16 on the first
entry model 10 aid in securing the model 10 to the trainer 20.
       [0040]         Various tools and techniques may be used to penetrate the top
cover 20 as described in the background of this description to perform mock procedures
not only on the model 10 but also on additional model organs placed between the top
cover 22 and the base 24. When placed inside the cavity 28 of the trainer 20, an organ
model is generally obscured from the perspective of the user who can then practice
performing surgical techniques laparoscopically by viewing the surgical site indirectly via
a video feed displayed on a video monitor 34. The video display monitor 34 is hinged to
the top cover 22 and is shown in an open orientation in FIG. 3. The video monitor 34 is
connectable to a variety of visual systems for delivering an image to the monitor 34. For
example, a laparoscope inserted through one of the pre-established apertures 30 or a
webcam located in the cavity 28 and used to observe the simulated procedure can be
connected to the video monitor 34 and/or a mobile computing device to provide an
image to the user. After first entry procedures are practiced on a first entry model 10
connected to the trainer 20, the first entry model 10 is removed and may be replaced
with a new insert or reconstructed and reconnected to the trainer 20 to allow training to
continue or be repeated. Of course, the first entry model 10 may be employed
independently of the trainer 20 for practicing first entry techniques.
       [0041]         Turning now to FIGs. 4 and 5, the anatomical portion 12 of the first
entry model 10 made of artificial material will now be described. The anatomical portion
12 includes a skin layer 40, an umbilical stalk 42, a fat layer 44, an anterior rectus
sheath layer 46, a first rectus muscle layer 48, a second rectus muscle layer 50, a third
rectus muscle layer 52, a posterior rectus sheath layer 54, a transversalis fascia layer
56, and a peritoneum layer 58. The layers 40, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58 are placed
                                             11

one on top of the other as shown in FIGs. 5-6 with the umbilical stalk 42 penetrating
through all of the layers beneath the skin layer 40. The layers 40, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52,
54, 56, 58 are connected together with adhesive or other fastener. In one variation, the
layers 40, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56 are connected with at least one price-tag holder
punched through the layers and sandwiched between the skin layer 40 and the
peritoneum layer 58 before being attached to the frame 14. In another variation, the
layers are held together without adhesive or other fastener and are clamped between
the top frame and bottom frame. An optional inferior epigastric vein and artery layer 60
is included between the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 and the transversalis fascia
layer 56 as shown in FIGs. 4-5.
        [0042]        With continued reference to FIG. 4, the skin layer 40 is molded of
silicone or thermoplastic elastomer dyed with a flesh color. The skin layer 40 includes a
top surface 62 and bottom surface 64 defining a thickness of approximately 0.1 inches.
The skin layer 40 includes an integrally formed umbilical stalk portion 42a. The skin
layer 40 will be described in greater detail below.
        [0043]        Still referencing FIG. 4, the fat layer 44 is made of cellular
polyethylene foam having a yellow color. The cellular foam layer is not solid but
textured with air bubbles. The fat layer 44 is approximately 0.625 inches thick. The
anterior rectus sheath layer 46 is made of solid ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) foam
having a white color and is approximately 1 millimeter thick. The first rectus muscle
layer 48 is made of solid EVA foam and is red in color and approximately 1 millimeter
thick. The second rectus muscle layer 50 is made of cellular polyethylene foam having
a pink color. The second rectus muscle layer 50 is cellular foam that includes air
bubbles that provide a cellular texture and is approximately 0.125 inches thick. The
third rectus muscle layer 52 is made of solid EVA foam having a red color and is
approximately 1 millimeter thick. The posterior rectus sheath layer 54 is made of solid
EVA foam that is white in color and is approximately 1 millimeter thick. The
transversalis fascia layer 56 is made of cellular polyethylene foam that is white in color
and approximately 0.25 inches thick. The fascia layer 56 has a cellular texture arising
from the cellular polyethylene foam as opposed to the solid EVA foam layers. The
peritoneum layer 58 is made of solid EVA foam that is white in color and approximately
                                              12

 1 millimeter thick. The inferior epigastric vein and artery layer 60 layer include solid or
hollow elongate cylindrical structures made of silicone or Kraton@ polymer or other
elastomer having a cross-sectional diameter of approximately 0.15 inches. The arteries
are red in color and the veins are blue in color. The layers as described above provide
an optical entry with a very realistic appearance to the end user. Cellular polyethylene
foam is also called closed cell polyethylene foam.
         [0044]       Turning now to FIG. 6, there is shown a top planar view that is
representative of the fat layer 44, the posterior rectus sheath layer 54, the transversalis
fascia layer 56 and the peritoneum layer 58. These layers are approximately six inches
wide and six and a half inches long. The fat layer 44, the posterior rectus sheath layer
54, the transversalis fascia layer 56 and the peritoneum layer 58 all have a circular
aperture 66 that is approximately one inch in diameter. The aperture 66 is located
approximately two inches from one side and is in the same place in all of these layers
44, 54, 56, 58 such that when overlaid the apertures 66 line up to provide a pathway for
the umbilical stalk 42 across these layers.
         [0045]       Turning now to FIG. 7, there is shown a top planar view that is
representative of the anterior rectus sheath layer 46, first rectus muscle layer 48, the
second rectus muscle layer 50 and the third rectus muscle layer 52. These layers are
approximately six inches wide and six and a half inches long. The anterior rectus
sheath layer 46, first rectus muscle layer 48, the second rectus muscle layer 50 and the
third rectus muscle layer 52 all have an elongate opening 68. The elongate opening 68
extends along the center line of the layers and is shown in FIG. 7 to be a rectangular cut
out that is approximately one inch wide and 5.75 inches long. When the layers 46, 48,
50, 52 are overlaid, one on top of the other, all of the respective openings 68 are
aligned. When the layers 46, 48, 50, 52 are overlaid with the other layers 44, 54, 56,
58, the apertures 66 are in communication or alignment with the elongate openings 68.
The elongate opening 68 represents the linea alba of the abdomen.
        [0046]        With reference back to FIG. 4 and additional reference to FIGs. 8
10, the skin layer 40 is formed by pouring the uncured and dyed silicone or
thermoplastic elastomer into a special mold 70. An exploded, top perspective view of
the mold 70 is shown in FIG. 8. The mold 70 includes a base 72, a top 74, and a core
                                              13

76. The base 72 of the mold 70 includes a cavity 78 for receiving the plastic material.
The cavity 78 is polygonal and substantially rectangular in shape. The cavity 78
includes a first floor 79 that surrounds a well 80 having a second floor 82. The second
floor 82 of the well 80 is approximately 1 inch below the first floor 79 and includes a hole
for inserting the core 76 inside the well 80. The cross-section of the well 80 is elliptical
in shape having a long axis of approximately 1 inch and a short axis of approximately
half an inch. The cross-section of the core 76 is also elliptical in shape, complementary
to the well 80. The core 76 has a long axis of approximately 0.75 inches and a short
axis of approximately 0.25 inches. With the core 76 in place inside the well 80 a space
of approximately 1/8 inch is formed all around the core 76 between the outer surface of
the core 76 and the inner surface of the well 80 into which silicone or thermoplastic
elastomer is poured to form a tubular structure of the umbilical stalk 42a having an
opening 92. The core 76 is approximately one inch and a half in length and extends
above the pour line when inside the well 80.
        [0047]         The mold cavity 78 further includes a circumferential well 84 that is
formed circumferentially around the first well 80. The circumferential well 84 has a
concave or curved floor 86 that is approximately 1/8 inch deeper from the first floor 79.
When silicone or thermoplastic elastomer is poured, an elliptical toroidal shape with a
flat top is formed in the plastic material resulting in an increased thickness of material of
approximately 0.25 inch in the area of the circumferential well 84 in the final product.
The circumferential well 84 has an inner perimeter 88 that coincides with the wall of the
first well 80. The annular distance from the inner perimeter 88 of the circumferential
well 84 to the outer perimeter or end of circumferential well 84 is approximately 0.75
inches. The base 72 of the mold 70 further includes a plurality of pegs 90 upstanding
from the first floor 79 to form holes in the resulting molded material. Although the first
well 80 is described to have an elliptical shape, in another variation it is circular in shape
with a corresponding circular core and circular circumferential well.
        [0048]         The core 76 is first inserted into the well 80 and silicone or
thermoplastic elastomer is poured into the base 72 of the mold 70. The silicone or
thermoplastic elastomer will run into the well 80 forming a tubular structure defined by
the space between the core 76 and wall of the well 80. The silicone or thermoplastic
                                               14

elastomer will also run into the circumferential well 84 and cover the concave floor 86
forming a substantially toroidal shape of increased thickness of approximately 0.25 inch.
The circumferential portion of increased thickness 94 is visible in FIGs. 4 and 5. The
silicone or thermoplastic elastomer in its liquid state will cover the first floor 79 forming a
planar area having a thickness of approximately 1/8 inch. The top 74 of the mold 70 will
be placed over the base 72 of the mold 70. The top 74 is configured to cover only the
perimeter of the poured silicone or thermoplastic elastomer to reduce the thickness of
the silicone around the perimeter.
        [0049]        After the silicone or thermoplastic elastomer has solidified, the top
74 of the mold is removed and the molded silicone or thermoplastic elastomer is
removed from the mold 70. The core 76 is also removed from the material leaving an
elliptical opening 92 through the skin layer 40. The tubular structure or umbilical stalk
42a that is integrally formed by the well 80 with the rest of the skin layer 40 defines an
opening 92 and is elliptical in shape having long axis of approximately 0.75 inches and
a short axis of approximately 0.25 inches with a wall thickness of approximately 1/8
inch. The tubular structure 42a is inverted, that is, it is pushed through the opening 92
such that the surface in contact with the floor 79 of the mold 70 becomes the skin layer
top surface 62. This advantageously permits the floor 79 of the mold to include
texturing that would impart skin-like texture to the skin layer top surface 62. Also, by
inverting the tubular structure 42a, not only an umbilical stalk is formed, but also, the
portion of increased thickness 94 of the skin layer 40 will advantageously create a
raised surface at the skin layer top surface 62 which is clearly visible in FIGs. 4 and 5.
This raised portion 94 advantageously provides extra thickness of material for drawing
sutures through and maintaining them in position without pulling through the silicone or
thermoplastic material. Also, a circumferential raised portion 94 that surrounds the
opening 92 creates a realistic belly-button effect that can be seen in FIG. 1. A variation
of the skin layer 40 without the raised circumferential portion 94 is shown in FIG. 2.
Although the umbilical stalk is approximately one inch long, it may be molded to be
longer, approximately 1.25 inches to approximately 2.0 inches long. The skin layer 40
is planar sheet of molded material having a top surface 62 and a bottom surface 64
defining a skin layer thickness of approximately 0.1 inches. The skin layer 40 further
                                              15

includes an opening 92 with a tubular extension 42 integrally formed at opening 92 and
interconnected with the rest of the layer 40. Surrounding the opening 92 is a
circumferential raised portion 94 of increased thickness of approximately 0.2 inches.
The raised portion 94 provides a convex outer surface that transitions into the
remainder of the top surface 62 of the skin layer 40.
         [0050]       The mold 70 is 3D printed from Vero White Plus Fullcure 835
material. The distance from the pour line to the floor 79 is approximately 0.1 inches to
create a skin layer thickness of approximately 0.1 inches. Around the perimeter, the
thickness beneath the top 74 of the mold 70 is reduced to approximately 0.05 inches for
a resulting skin layer thickness at the perimeter having a reduced thickness of
approximately 0.05 inches which facilitates connection to the frame support 14. At the
circumferential well 84 location, the thickness of the resulting skin layer 40 is
approximately 0.2 inches. First, the mold 70 is sprayed with mold release solution and
allowed to dry. In one variation, approximately 5 grams of Dragon Skin Silicone
comprising 2.5 grams of part A and 2.5 grams of part B is mixed. Alternatively, a
thermoplastic elastomer such as Kraton CL2003X is used for its cost savings and its
ability to be sutured. Approximately 20 microliters of fleshtone color is mixed into the
silicone. The core 76 is inserted into the well 80 and the silicone mixture is poured into
the mold base 72. The mixture is spread evenly up to a pour line making sure all the
wells are filled. The top 74 is placed over the base 72 of the mold 70. Excess silicone
mixture is cleaned away and the silicone inside the mold 70 is allowed to dry for
approximately one hour under a heat lamp or for two hours without a heat lamp.
         [0051]       After the silicone mixture has dried, the top 74 is removed and the
formed skin layer 40 is peeled and removed from the base 72. The core 76 is also
removed. The integrally formed umbilical stalk 42 is inverted by passing it through a
formed opening 92. Silicone adhesive is provided and delivered using a syringe to the
inside of the tube of the umbilical stalk 42. One or more clamps and in one variation,
three clamps, such as binder clips, are used to clamp the inverted umbilical stalk 42
closed and sealed to create a bellybutton shape having a star or Y-shaped closure as
shown in FIGs. 1 or 2. The bottom-most part of the umbilical stalk 42 is clamped to
create a deep umbilicus as opposed to clamping closer to the skin layer bottom surface
                                              16

64. The skin layer 40 is turned over and excess glue that may have seeped out of the
umbilicus 42 is removed. The adhesive is allowed to dry for approximately one hour
and the clamps are removed. In one variation, an umbilical shaft 42b is provided. The
umbilical shaft 42b is tubular having a central lumen and made of a thin layer of white
silicone that is approximately 1mm thick. The umbilical shaft 42b is glued to the
umbilical stalk 42a to extend the umbilicus deeper into the layers and create a more
realistic look and feel. The umbilical shaft 42b is glued to the umbilical stalk 42a such
that the lumens interconnect. The proximal end of the umbilical shaft 42b is place over
the stalk 42a and glued thereto and the distal end of the umbilical shaft 42b is free. In
another variation, the distal end of the umbilical shaft is glued or integrally formed with
the peritoneum layer 58.
        [0052]        All of the layers are properly oriented in the same direction and
aligned such that the apertures 66 and openings 68 are superimposed. Then, with the
skin layer 40 inverted and the umbilical stalk 42a either alone or with an extended
umbilical shaft 42b is passed through the circular aperture 66 of the fat layer 44 and
through the elongate openings 68 of the anterior rectus sheath layer 46, the first rectus
muscle layer 48, the second rectus muscle layer 50, and the third rectus muscle layer
52 and then through the circular apertures 66 of the posterior rectus sheath layer 54,
the transversalis fascia layer 56 and the peritoneum layer 58 as shown in FIG. 5. In one
variation, the umbilicus 42 is left meeting the peritoneum layer 58 or in another
variation, the umbilicus 42 is attached with adhesive to the peritoneum layer 58 and yet
in another variation, integrally molded with the peritoneum layer 58. The inferior
epigastric vein and artery layer 60 is optionally included. This layer 60 can be formed
as a layer having a circular aperture 66 with embedded arteries and veins or simply
comprise a pair of cylindrical silicone structures, one red and one blue, placed on one
side of the midline and another pair of cylindrical silicone structures, one red and one
blue in color, placed on the other side of the midline as shown in FIG. 4. The cylindrical
silicone structures representing the epigastric veins and arteries are glued to at least
one of the adjacent posterior rectus sheath layer 54 and the transversalis fascia layer
56. A price tag holder or other fastener can then be used to connect the layers together
                                              17

as shown in FIG. 5 with the umbilicus 42 shown protruding from the aperture 66 in the
bottom-most peritoneum layer 58.
        [0053]         As can be seen in FIG. 5, the skin layer 50 and the peritoneum
layer 58 is slightly larger than the other internal layers 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56. In
particular, the skin layer 50 and peritoneum layer 58 are larger by approximately 1.25
inches in length and width. Whereas the internal layers are approximately 6.5 inches
long and 6 inches wide, the peritoneum layer 58 and skin layer 40 is approximately 8
inches long and 7.5 inches wide. These extra length and width portions are captured
between the top and bottom frames of the support 14. Pegs in one of the top or bottom
frames are passed through apertures in the skin layer 40 formed by mold pegs 90. The
peritoneum layer 58 may also include apertures for passing of frame pegs. The top
frame and bottom frame are then heat staked together capturing the anatomical portion
12. The resulting model 10 is approximately 1.5 inches thick.
        [0054]         The first entry model 10 is then placed inside an opening in the top
cover 22 of a laparoscopic trainer 20 and securely attached. Laparoscopic first entry
procedures such as the ones discussed in the background of this specification are then
practiced on the model 10 employing one or more of the trocar instruments described
above creating first entry in any of the locations described above including first entry
directly through the umbilicus. Another location for first entry could be within a half inch
on either side of the midline. Although such first entry is not surgically preferred, the
practitioner will advantageously and quickly recognize a mistaken first approach when
only the skin layer 40, the fat layer 44 and posterior rectus sheath 54 and peritoneum 58
layers are observed at the linea alba. The absence of a pink-colored first rectus muscle
layer 48 should immediately alarm the practitioner during practice that penetration is at
a wrong location. Another location for first entry penetration can take place at the left
upper quadrant or right upper quadrant. As mentioned above, the left upper quadrant is
different from the umbilicus region in that there are muscle layers. While penetrating at
the upper right or left quadrants, the practitioner will observe the following layers: the
skin layer 40, the fat layer 44, the anterior rectus sheath layer 46, the first rectus muscle
layer 48, the second rectus muscle layer 50, the third rectus muscle layer 52, the
posterior rectus sheath layer 54, the transversalis fascia layer 56 and the peritoneum
                                               18

layer 58. The layers are configured such that first entry through the umbilicus 42 will not
penetrate any of the layers or will only penetrate the skin layer 40.
        [0055]         With reference to FIGs. 11-12, there is shown an alternative mold
70 according to the present invention that is used to create the skin layer 40. The mold
70 is made of a polymer known as Delrin@ and includes a base 72, a top 74, and a core
76. The base 72 of the mold 70 includes a cavity 78 for receiving the plastic material.
The cavity 78, which is approximately 0.1 inches deep, is in the shape of a large
abdominal wall frame configured to hold all the layers of the model. The cavity 78
includes a first floor 79 that surrounds a well 80 having a second floor 82. The second
floor 82 of the well 80 includes a hole for inserting the core 76 inside the well 80. The
cross-section of the well 80 is elliptical in shape having a long axis of approximately 1
inch and a short axis of approximately half an inch. The well 80 is approximately three
inches from one side of the cavity 78 and approximately three inches from the curved
side of the cavity 78 and approximately 0.75 inches deep. The well 80 includes a
secondary well at the second floor 82 which is also an ovular cutout that has a long axis
of approximately 0.5 inches and a short axis of approximately 0.2 inches and
approximately 0.1 inches deep. The secondary well is used to align the core 76 within
the well 80. Although the first well 80 is described to have an elliptical shape, in another
variation, the first well 80 is circular in shape with a corresponding circular core.
        [0056]         The cross-section of the core 76 is also elliptical in shape,
complementary to the well 80. In a cross-section taken perpendicular to the longitudinal
axis of the core 76, the core 76 has a long axis of approximately 0.75 inches and a short
axis of approximately 0.25 inches. With the core 76 in place inside the well 80 a space
of approximately 1/8 inch is formed all around the core 76 between the outer surface of
the core 76 and the inner surface of the well 80 into which silicone or thermoplastic
elastomer is poured to form a tubular structure of the umbilical stalk 42a having an
opening 92. The core 76 is approximately one inch and a half in length and extends
above the pour line when inside the well 80. The base 72 of the mold 70 further
includes a plurality of pegs 90 for forming apertures through which pegs will pass for
securing the skin layer 40 to the frame 14.
                                                19

        [0057]         The core 76 is first inserted into the well 80 and silicone or
thermoplastic elastomer is poured into the base 72 of the mold 70. The silicone or
thermoplastic elastomer will run into the well 80 forming a tubular structure defined by
the space between the core 76 and wall of the well 80. The silicone or thermoplastic
elastomer in its liquid state will cover the first floor 79 forming a planar area having a
thickness of approximately 1/8 inch. The top 74 of the mold 70 will be placed over the
base 72 of the mold 70. The top 74 includes a through-hole having the same shape as
the cavity 78 but sized slightly larger so as to cover only the perimeter of the poured
silicone or thermoplastic elastomer. The top 74 includes a lip of approximately 0.39
inches in length that extends vertically approximately 0.05 inches. The lip is configured
to create a flat edge around the skin layer that is only 0.05 inches allowing the skin layer
to be easily heat staked in the location of the edge after assembly.
        [0058]        Turning now to FIGs. 13 and 14, another variation of first entry
model 10 will now be described with like reference numbers used to describe like parts.
The model 10 includes an anatomical portion 12 connected between two parts of a
frame-like support 14. The frame-like support 14 includes a top frame having
protrusions that snap through the skin layer 40 and into apertures formed in a bottom
frame. The anatomical portion 12 includes a skin layer 40, an umbilical stalk 42, a fat
layer 44, an anterior rectus sheath layer 46, a first rectus muscle layer 48, a second
rectus muscle layer 50, a third rectus muscle layer 52, a posterior rectus sheath layer
54, a transversalis fascia layer 56, and a peritoneum layer 58. The layers 40, 44, 46,
48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58 are placed one on top of the other as shown in FIGs. 13-14 with
the umbilical stalk 42 penetrating through all of the layers beneath the skin layer 40
except for the peritoneum layer 58. The layers 40, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58 are
connected together with adhesive or other fastener. In one variation, the layers 40, 44,
46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58 are connected with at least one price-tag holder 100 punched
through the layers and sandwiched between the skin layer 40 and the peritoneum layer
58 before being attached to the frame 14. In another variation, the layers are held
together without adhesive or other fastener and clamped between the top frame and
bottom frame. An optional inferior epigastric vein and artery layer 60 is included
                                               20

between the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 and the transversalis fascia layer 56 as
shown in FIGs. 13-14.
         [0059]       With continued reference to FIGs. 13-14, the skin layer 40 is
molded of silicone or thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) dyed with a flesh color. The skin
layer 40 includes a top surface and bottom surface defining a thickness of
approximately 0.1 inches. The skin layer 40 includes an integrally formed tubular
umbilical stalk portion 42a having a central lumen formed by the core 76 during the
molding process. An umbilical shaft 42b may be formed together with the umbilical
stalk 42a or connected to the umbilical stalk 42a or placed as a separate tubular portion
within the anatomical portion 12. The umbilical stalk 42 is made of a thin layer of white
silicone that is approximately 1 millimeter thick. The umbilical stalk 42a by itself or
together with the umbilical shaft 42b is configured to be long enough to travel through all
the layers 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54 and 56 until it reaches between the transversalis fascia
layer 56 and the peritoneum layer 58. The distal end of the umbilical stalk 42 (or
umbilical shaft 42b if one is employed) is cut one or more times such that the cut
extends from the distal end of the umbilical stalk towards the proximal end of the
umbilical stalk. Several cuts are provided at a length to sufficiently flare the distal end of
the umbilical stalk. In one variation, four or more cuts are formed to form four or more
pieces or flaps at the distal end of the simulated umbilicus 42. These flaps 102 are
fanned out over the distal-facing surface of the transversalis fascia layer 56 as shown in
FIG. 15. The umbilical stalk 42 is adhered to the transversalis fascia layer 56 using two
types of adhesive. Because the transversalis fascia layer 56 is made of cellular
polyethylene foam which is porous, the surface insensitive cyanoacrylate glue cannot
be used alone to adhere the silicone because it will burn through the foam and not
adhere. Therefore, a heavy duty spray adhesive is sprayed on the foam transversalis
fascia layer 56 and allowed to dry for a few minutes. The surface insensitive
cyanoacrylate glue is then placed on the silicone umbilical stalk 42 and the distal flaps
102 of the stalk 42 are adhered to the distal-facing surface of the transversalis fascia
layer 56. The spray adhesive, which alone is not strong enough to bond the foam and
the silicone, protects the foam from the cyanoacrylate.
                                             21

        [0060]         Still referencing FIGs. 13-14, the fat layer 44 needs to react
similarly to real fat when grasped or touched externally and it needs to look like fat
under optical entry and to respond physically like to fat when pierced internally. In one
variation, the fat layer 44 is made of cellular foam that is porous, sponge-like and yellow
in color. The yellow foam looks like fat under optical entry. In another variation, the fat
layer 44 is made of polyurethane foam that is yellow in color. Memory foam is
polyurethane with additional chemicals increasing its viscosity and density. It is also
called viscoelastic polyurethane foam or low-resilience polyurethane foam or
polyurethane foam having a slow recovery. The memory foam feels realistic when the
user touches the model 10 at the skin layer 40 and also when the user enters the fat
layer 44 optically with a trocar. When illuminated, the polyurethane fat layer 44 shines
advantageously creating the illusion that the fat is wet internally. Additionally, when the
fat layer 44 is cut, the polyurethane foam recovers its shape. The ability of the fat layer
44 to recover its shape is important for the Hasson cut-down technique because the
surgeon must practice retracting the fat layer 44 before cutting the fascia. The practice
is more realistic if the fat layer 44 tends to return to its original location requiring the
practitioner to retract the fat layer 44. In another variation, the fat layer 44 is made of a
thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) with an additive such as baking soda or mineral oil to
create a material that acts more like real fat. An additive such as baking soda will
create a porous fat layer allowing the trocar to easily pierce and enter the fat layer 44
and advantageously provide a more realistic appearance under optical entry. An
additive such as mineral oil will create a gel that has the shape-recovery characteristics
similar to the memory foam but provides a more realistic feel when touched externally.
TPE with either the mineral oil or baking soda as an additive provides a tactile response
similar to fat when grasped. The fat layer 44 is approximately 1.5-4.0 cm thick in a
standard model 10. An obese model 10 will be described hereinbelow.
        [0061]         In another variation of the model, the skin layer 40 is attached to
the fat layer 44. In particular, the skin layer 40 is cast over the fat layer 44. The silicone
or TPE of the skin layer 40 will adhere to the fat layer 44 located directly below the skin
layer 40 as it cures/cools. In such a variation, the mold 70 is made deeper to receive
the fat layer 44. As described above with respect to another variation in which the
                                               22

umbilical stalk is inverted to create a realistic umbilicus, this variation in which the skin
layer 40 is attached to the fat layer 44, the umbilical stalk cannot be inverted because
the silicone or the TPE is poured over the fat layer and attaches thereto as it cures.
Therefore, the core 76 is a different shape than described above with respect to FIGs.
 11-12. Instead, the core 76 is shaped such that the cured silicone results in a shape
that simulates an inverted umbilicus. For example, the top of the core 76 may be
provided with a recess with texturing that simulates the belly button as viewed from
outside the patient. The fat layer 44 is placed into the mold base 72 that is modified
with a larger receptacle for receiving a fat layer 44 and the silicone or TPE is be poured
over it and then the umbilicus-shaped core 76 may be previously placed into a well or is
placed on top to mold the umbilicus shape into the silicone skin layer 40 without
inverting or gluing a lumen of the umbilical stalk 42. In this variation, the step of
inverting the skin layer 40 and pinched together to create the umbilicus shape would not
be needed.
        [0062]         In addition to a model with a normal abdominal wall anatomy, an
obese model is provided in the present invention. The obese model includes all of the
same layers as shown in FIGs. 13-14 but includes a fat layer 44 that is significantly
thicker. The fat layer 44 of the obese model can be made of the same materials already
described herein. Whereas the thickness of the standard fat layer 44 is approximately
1.5 to 4.0 cm, the fat layer 44 in the obese model is approximately 4.0 to 7.0 cm. The
obese model also includes a special skin layer 40. The skin layer 40 can be made as
previously stated herein and be of the same size in the x-y plane as the skin layer in the
standard model or the same size in the x-y plane as the fat layer in the obese model or,
alternatively, the skin layer 40 can be larger in size with respect to the size of the fat
layer of the obese model in the x-y plane or larger in size with respect to the size of the
fat layer of the standard model. If the skin layer is the same size and shape, the obese
model 10b will have a domed effect as can be seen in FIG. 16B when compared to a
standard model 1Oa illustrated in FIG. 16A. The same-sized skin layer 40 in
combination with the thicker fat layer 44 or otherwise a skin layer 40 that is the same
size or is slightly smaller than the dimensions of the fat layer 44 will result in the thicker
fat layer(s) 44 of the obese model being compressed into the same space previously
                                              23

made for the standard model. This compression provides the obese model 1OA with the
appearance of an obese patient when using any of the four laparoscopic entry
techniques. However, the obese model 10A will not be easily and realistically grasped
with the smaller and tighter skin layer 40 encompassing the larger fat layer 44; however,
a larger skin layer 40 can be employed. If TPE or memory foam is used for the fat layer
44, the larger skin layer 40 will allow the fat layer 44 to expand into the extra space of a
larger skin layer 40 when gasped and moved. Advantageously, the ability of the fat
layer to move freely under the skin layer allows the surgeon to grasp the fat layer and
pull at the umbilicus creating a more realistic entry. FIGs. 16A and 16B illustrate a
laparoscopic trainer 20 with legs 26 removed such that the top cover 22 is seated
directly onto the base 24 of the trainer 20 reducing the size of the cavity 28 such that
first entry procedures may be more easily and conveniently practiced. The top cover 22
forms a shell over the base 24 and fits securely around an upstanding lip so that the top
cover 22 does not dislocate with respect to the base 24. The first entry model 10 is
inserted into an aperture 30 in the top cover 22 of the trainer 20 and a simulated organ
is placed into the cavity 28 of the trainer 20 such that when a practitioner enters through
the first entry model 10 by piercing the various layers, the practitioner will see the
simulated organ located within the cavity 28. One or more organs may be placed inside
the cavity 28. In one variation, at least a simulated omentum is provided inside the
cavity 28. The simulated omentum is made of a sheet of fabric or thin layer of silicone.
The sheet is placed inside the cavity 28 of the trainer 20 and the sheet is configured
such that when the first entry model 10 is pierced by an instrument such as an optical
trocar having a laparoscope inserted into the trocar, the practitioner will see the sheet
on the video display monitor. In one variation, the sheet is suspended within the cavity
28 using clips attached to the trainer 20. Alternatively, the sheet may be placed on a
frame or just laid over the base. The thin sheet of material, representing the omentum,
is yellow in color and loosely connected to the trainer and is configured such that it
would flutter when insufflation gasses are delivered into the cavity such as with an
insufflation trocar after piercing the first entry model 10. In such a case, the
representative omentum layer is attached to the trainer selectively leaving portions of
the simulated omentum unattached to enable the flutter effect. The presence of the
                                                24

simulated omentum layer comprising a thin sheet is advantageous because when a
surgeon first enters into the abdominal cavity and insufflation is delivered to expand the
abdomen in order to create a working space, the surgeon knows that the abdominal wall
was successfully entered when visually the representative omentum or viscera is
observed and further seen fluttering with the force of insufflation gasses. This training
feature is advantageously provided in the present invention in the combination of the
first entry model 10, a trainer 20 and simulated omentum such as that depicted in FIG. 3
or FIGs. 16A and 16B of the present invention. Use of the simulated omentum sheet
with the trainer 20 configured as shown in FIGs. 16A and 16B advantageously provides
a smaller space for the cavity 28, creating a more air-tight and dark location to simulate
insufflation and observe the fluttering of the simulated omentum.
        [0063]        With reference back to FIGs. 13-14 and with reference to Table 1
below, the anterior rectus sheath layer 46 is made of solid ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA)
foam having a white color and is approximately 1 millimeter thick. The first rectus
muscle layer 48 is made of solid EVA foam and is red in color and approximately 1
millimeter thick. The second rectus muscle layer 50 is made of cellular polyethylene
foam having a pink color. In one variation, the second rectus muscle layer 50
comprises two layers 50a, 50b of cellular polyethylene foam having a total thickness of
approximately 0.25 inches. The second rectus muscle layer 50 is cellular foam that
includes air bubbles that provide a cellular texture. Each second rectus muscle layer
50a, 50b is approximately 0.125 inches thick. The third rectus muscle layer 52 is made
of solid EVA foam having a red color and is approximately 1 millimeter thick.
        [0064]        In one variation, the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 is not made of
foam material, but instead, is made of an interfacing fabric. The interfacing fabric is
made of strong polyester fibers that can stretch considerably before ripping.
Furthermore, the interfacing fabric is thin being approximately 0.2 mm thick and white in
color. The interfacing fabric layer 54 is thin enough to allow a trocar or Veress needle to
puncture through the fabric when using an entry tactic other than a Hasson cut down
technique and capable of being cut when employing the Hasson cut down technique.
At the linea alba location, the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 in the model represents
the fascia of both the anterior and posterior rectus sheath that come together at the
                                              25

linea alba. The fabric of the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 represents the linea alba
configured by exposing the posterior rectus sheath layer through and by way of an
elongate opening 68 formed in anterior rectus sheath layer 46, first rectus muscle layer
48, second rectus muscle layer 50 and third rectus muscle layer 52. The elongate
opening 68 in each of these layers are shown in FIG. 17. In a first entry technique
employing the Hasson cut down method, the fascia of the linea alba as represented by
the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 is grasped and pulled through the incision in order
to safely incise the layer 54. Hence, the stretchable fabric layer 54 advantageously
provides ability to pull the fascia layer up so that safe cutting techniques may be
practiced using this model.
        [0065]         The transversalis fascia layer 56 is made of cellular polyethylene
foam that is white in color and approximately 0.25 inches thick. The fascia layer 56 has
a cellular texture arising from the cellular polyethylene foam as opposed to the solid
EVA foam layers. The peritoneum layer 58 is made of solid EVA foam that is white in
color and approximately 1 millimeter thick. The peritoneum layer 58 may also be made
of silicone or TPE. The optional inferior epigastric vein and artery layer 60 layer
includes solid or hollow elongate cylindrical structures made of silicone or Kraton@
polymer or other elastomer having a cross-sectional diameter of approximately 0.15
inches. The arteries are red in color and the veins are blue in color. The layers, as
described above, provide an optical entry with a very realistic appearance to the end
user. The layers of foam are capable of being punctured with a trocar and look realistic
under optical entry via a laparoscope inserted into an optical trocar. Also, the foam
layers provide a realistic tactile feedback to the practitioner when using Veress needle
entry as well as with optical entry. The thicknesses, colors and compositions of the
various layers of the abdominal wall of the first entry model 10 are shown in Table 1
below.
                                              26

        [0066]
                              Table 1: Abdominal Wall Layers
                                  Material    Thickness Thickness
                Layer                          Standard       Obese        Color
                                                 model         model
                 Skin           Silicone or       0.1"          0.1"       Flesh
                                    TPE                                    Tone
                                  Cellular
                                   Foam
                                  Memory       1.5 to 4.0    4.0 to 7.0   Yellow
                  Fat              Foam                                   Ylo
                                 TPE with          cm           cm
                                 Additive
                                    Gel
           Anterior Rectus      Solid Foam        1mm          1mm         White
               Sheath
            Rectus Muscle       Solid Foam        1mm          1mm          Red
            Rectus Muscle         Cellular                                Pink or
                 Retu
                    Msce           Foam           141/"White
            Rectus Muscle       Solid Foam        1mm          1mm          Red
           Posterior Rectus     Interfacing     0.2 mm        0.2mm        White
               Sheath              Fabric
            Transversalis         Cellular        1/4"          1/4"       White
               Fascia              Foam
                               Solid Foam,
             Peritoneum         Silicone or       1mm          1mm         White
                                    TPE
        [0067]        Turning now to FIG. 17, there is shown a top planar view that is
representative of the anterior rectus sheath layer 46, first rectus muscle layer 48, the
second rectus muscle layer 50 and the third rectus muscle layer 52. These layers are
approximately six inches wide and six and a half inches long. The anterior rectus
sheath layer 46, first rectus muscle layer 48, the second rectus muscle layer 50 and the
third rectus muscle layer 52 all have an elongate opening 68. The elongate opening 68
extends along the center line of the layers and is shown in FIG. 17 to be a substantially
rectangular cut out that is approximately one inch wide and approximately 5.75 inches
long. The elongate opening 68 represents the lack of muscle at the linea alba.
However, the linea alba varies between patients and in other variations of the model,
the width of the elongate opening 68 can range from 8 mm to 30 mm. Of course, the
                                            27

shape of the opening may also vary. When the layers 46, 48, 50, 52 are overlaid, one
on top of the other, all of the respective openings 68 are aligned. When the layers 46,
48, 50, 52 are overlaid with the other layers 44, 54, 56, 58, the ovular holes 66
(described with respect to FIG. 18) are in communication or alignment with the elongate
openings 68 and slits 104 (described with respect to FIG. 19). The posterior rectus
sheath 54 is visible through the aligned elongate openings 68 simulating the
appearance of the linea alba of the abdomen.
        [0068]        Turning now to FIG. 18, there is shown a top planar view that is
representative of the fat layer 44 and the peritoneum layer 58. These layers are
approximately six inches wide and six and a half inches long. The fat layer 44 and the
peritoneum layer 58 all have an ovular hole 66 that has a length of approximately one
inch and a width of approximately 0.5 inches. The ovular hole 66 is located
approximately two inches from one side and is in the same location in the fat layer 44
and the peritoneum layer 58 such that when overlaid the ovular holes 66 line up to
provide a pathway for the umbilical stalk 42 across these layers. The ovular hole 66
closely hugs the umbilical stalk 42 compared with a circular hole advantageously
providing a more realistic visualization.
        [0069]        Turning now to FIG. 19, there is shown a top planar view that is
representative of the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 and the transversalis fascia layer
56. These layers 54, 56 include a slit 104. The slit 104 is approximately 1 inch in length
and is a narrow cut substantially perpendicular to the representative linea alba so that
the ends of the slit 104 are not aligned with the longitudinal axis of the linea alba. The
slit 104 allows the umbilical stalk 42 to pass through to its termination between the
transversalis fascia layer 56 and the peritoneum layer 58 while still allowing these layers
to touch or closely approximate the curvature of the umbilical stalk 42. In this
configuration, the posterior rectus sheath layer 54 and the transversalis fascia layer 56
closely hug the umbilical stalk 42 which advantageously makes the visualization more
realistic such that these layers are seen or felt during entry especially when employing a
Hasson or Veress needle first entry. In one variation in which the fat layer 44 comprises
more than one layer, the one or more distal fat layer(s) 44 are also configured with a slit
                                             28

104 as shown in FIG. 19; whereas the proximal fat layer(s) 44 are configured with an
ovular hole 66 as shown in FIG. 18.
         [0070]       In another variation, the first entry model 10 includes simulations for
adhesions present in real anatomy. Frequently, organs and tissues located underneath
the peritoneum will adhere to the peritoneum and create an adhesion. While practicing
first entry techniques, it is necessary for the surgeon to learn how to be wary of
adhesions and how to navigate with respect to them in the event they occur in the
patient. The present invention provides a first entry model that allows the surgeon to
practice encountering and navigating adhesions in a first entry laparoscopic
environment. It is necessary for the surgeon to be careful, because aggressive entry in
the location of an adhesion may result in accidental piercing of the adhered tissue or
organ. In this variation of the first entry model 10, adhesions are included in the model.
For example, a simulated adhesion is a piece of simulated bowel that is attached to the
undersurface of the peritoneum layer 58. The piece of simulated bowel is made of
silicone. The adhesion may be made of any suitable material and adhesive may be
used to connect the adhesion to the peritoneum layer 58. In another variation, a piece
of silicone is used to attach the simulated bowel to the peritoneum layer 58. In the first
entry model with adhesions, the peritoneum layer 58 may be made of silicone or TPE
instead of foam in order to more easily attach a silicone adhesion to the peritoneum
layer 58. Also, the peritoneum layer 58 that is made of silicone or TPE will stretch as
the adhesion is being removed making the simulation more realistic. To signify that an
adhesion is present, a scar indicating a previous surgery may be molded or printed onto
the surface of the skin layer 40 in a location above the adhesion to the peritoneum
layer; thereby, the surgeon would anticipate an adhesion being present in the general
area beneath the layers in the abdominal cavity. The scar would require the practitioner
to make a decision about the best place to enter or pierce the first entry model 10 and
thus adds an important practice dimension to the model 10. A scar may or may not be
provided. If a scar is not provided on the skin layer 40, an adhesion may still be
provided to surprise the practitioner adding yet another practice dimension to the first
entry model 10. Generally, after the surgeon has entered and found the adhesion, the
surgeon can insert a grasper to pull at the adhesion such as a piece of bowel, stretch
                                              29

the adhesion away from the peritoneum and/or bowel, and use a scalpel or scissors to
cut through the silicone that is located between the bowel and peritoneum layer 58 and
used to attach the simulated adhesion to the peritoneum layer 58 in order to free the
adhesion.
        [0071]         The first entry model 10 of the present invention is particularly
suited for laparoscopic procedures and may be employed with a laparoscopic trainer 20;
however, the invention is not so limited and the first entry model 10 of the present
invention can be used alone to practice first entry surgical procedures equally
effectively. The present invention advantageously provides numerous practice
possibilities for the surgeon who is learning or practicing first entry techniques while at
the same time being manufactured of simple silicone and foam materials providing
maximum costs savings while also providing a most realistic tactile and visual
experience. The first entry model 10 may be used repeatedly allowing the surgeon to
practice numerous entry techniques on the same model before discarding the model
which can then be easily replaced with a new model when used with the laparoscopic
trainer.
        [0072]         It is understood that various modifications may be made to the
embodiments of the first entry model 10 disclosed herein. Therefore, the above
description should not be construed as limiting, but merely as exemplifications of
preferred embodiments. Those skilled in the art will envision other modifications within
the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.
                                              30

                                            Claims
We claim:
1.      A simulated tissue structure, comprising:
        a support;
        an artificial anatomical portion configured to simulate a region of an abdominal
wall; the anatomical portion being connected to the support such that the anatomical
portion is penetrable from a first side to a second side of the anatomical portion; the
anatomical portion including a plurality of simulated tissue layers arranged in
juxtaposition with each other; the simulated tissue layers including a simulated skin
layer located above the remaining layers; each of the remaining layers having an
opening extending through the layer; the simulated skin layer having a top surface and
a bottom surface; the top surface of the simulated skin layer defines a first side of the
anatomical portion; a tubular structure having a proximal end and a distal opening at a
distal end; the distal end of the tubular structure extending through one or more
openings in the remaining layers.
2.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 1 further including a simulated peritoneum
layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface forming the second
side of the anatomical portion.
3.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 2 further including a first layer having a
top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of the first layer overlaying the top
surface of the simulated peritoneum layer; and a second layer having a top surface and
a bottom surface; the bottom surface of the second layer overlaying the top surface of
the first layer.
4.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 3 wherein the distal end of the tubular
structure is connected to the second layer.
                                               31

5.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 3 wherein the distal end of the tubular
structure is connected to the bottom surface of the second layer.
6.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 3 wherein the second layer is made of
fabric.
7.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 3 wherein the first layer is made of
cellular polyethylene foam.
8.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 1 wherein the simulated skin layer
includes an opening defining an opening at the proximal end of the tubular structure;
wherein the opening is closed.
9.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 1 wherein the tubular structure is
connected to the top surface of the simulated skin layer and extends through the
opening in the simulated skin layer.
10.     A simulated tissue structure configured to simulate an abdominal wall,
comprising:
        a simulated skin layer having a top surface and a bottom surface;
        a simulated fat layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom
surface of the simulated skin layer overlaying the top surface of the simulated fat layer;
        a first simulated muscle layer having a top surface and a bottom surface;
        a second simulated muscle layer having a top surface and a bottom surface;
        a third layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the third layer being
located between the first and second simulated muscle layers;
        a fourth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface;
        a fifth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of the
fourth layer overlaying the top surface of the fifth layer;
                                              32

        a simulated peritoneum layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the
bottom surface of the fifth layer overlaying the top surface of the simulated peritoneum
layer.
11.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 wherein the fourth layer is made of
fabric.
12.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 wherein the simulated fat layer is
made of memory foam.
13.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 wherein the simulated skin layer is
made of silicone and includes a tubular structure extending through one or more of the
other layers; the tubular structure having an opening at the proximal end that is closed.
14.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 wherein the third layer and fifth layer
are made of cellular polyethylene foam.
15.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 wherein the third layer and fifth layer
are made of cellular polyethylene foam and the fourth layer is made of fabric.
16.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 wherein the first simulated muscle
layer and the second simulated muscle layer are made of ethyl vinyl acetate foam and
are red in color.
17.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 10 further including a simulated adhesion
attached to the bottom surface of the simulated peritoneum layer.
18.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 17 wherein the simulated skin layer
includes a simulated scar in a location above the simulated adhesion.
19.     A surgical simulation system, comprising:
                                              33

        an abdominal wall model, including:
        a support; and
        an artificial anatomical portion configured to simulate a region of an abdominal
wall; the anatomical portion being connected to the support such that the anatomical
portion is penetrable from a first side to a second side of the anatomical portion; the
anatomical portion including a plurality of simulated tissue layers arranged in
juxtaposition with each other; the simulated tissue layers including a simulated skin
layer located above the remaining layers; the simulated skin layer having a top surface
and a bottom surface; the top surface of the simulated skin layer defining a first side of
the anatomical portion;
        a trainer, including:
                a base;
                a top cover having a top surface and a bottom surface; the top cover being
        connected to and spaced apart from the base to define an internal cavity
        between the top cover and the base; the top cover having a first opening;
        wherein the abdominal wall model is removably located inside the first opening;
the model being connected to the top cover such that penetration of the anatomical
portion provides access to the internal cavity of the trainer.
20.     The surgical simulation system of claim 19 further including a simulated tissue
structure located inside the cavity; and a thin layer located inside the internal cavity of
the trainer between the anatomical portion and the simulated tissue structure.
21.     The surgical simulation system of claim 19 wherein the thin layer is suspended
inside the internal cavity.
22.     The surgical simulation system of claim 19 wherein the thin layer is made of
silicone.
23.     The surgical simulation system of claim 19 wherein the thin layer is connected to
the trainer.
                                               34

24.     The surgical simulation system of claim 19 wherein the thin layer is connected to
the trainer with clips.
25.     The surgical simulation system of claim 19 wherein the support includes a top
frame defining a top opening and a bottom frame defining a bottom opening; the
anatomical portion being connected to the support between the top frame and the
bottom frame such that the anatomical portion is penetrable through the top opening
and bottom opening.
26.     A method for manufacturing a simulated skin layer for a simulated abdominal
wall, comprising the steps of:
        providing a mold defining a cavity having a first depth and a first well inside the
cavity having a second depth greater than the first depth; the mold having a core
located inside the first well;
        pouring a silicone mixture into the mold cavity and first well;
        curing the silicone inside the mold to form a simulated skin layer having a top
surface and a bottom surface and a tubular structure extending from the top surface; the
tubular structure having a lumen defining an opening in the layer at the proximal end
and an opening at a distal end; and
        inverting the tubular structure by passing the distal end of the tubular structure
through the opening.
27.     The method of claim 26 further including the step of forming a thicker portion
circumferentially around the first well.
28.     The method of claim 26 further including the step of providing a mold having a
circumferential well extending around the first well; the circumferential well having a
third depth that is less than the second depth; and forming thicker portion in the layer
around the first well.
                                              35

29.     The method of claim 26 further including the step of sealing the opening at the
proximal end closed.
30.     The method of claim 26 further including the step of forming a plurality of cuts in
the tubular structure that extends from the distal end toward the proximal end.
31.     A simulated tissue structure, comprising:
        a support including a top frame defining a top opening and a bottom frame
defining a bottom opening;
        an artificial anatomical portion configured to simulate a region of an abdominal
wall; the anatomical portion being connected to the support between the top frame and
the bottom frame such that the anatomical portion is penetrable through the top opening
and bottom opening; the anatomical portion including:
        a first layer having a top surface and a bottom surface;
        a second layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the second layer
having a second opening; the bottom surface of the first layer overlaying the top surface
of the second layer;
        a third layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the third layer having a
third opening; the bottom surface of the second layer overlaying the top surface of the
third layer;
        a fourth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the fourth layer having
a fourth opening; the bottom surface of the third layer overlaying the top surface of the
fourth layer;
        a fifth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the fifth layer having a
fifth opening; the bottom surface of the fourth layer overlaying the top surface of the fifth
layer;
        a sixth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the sixth layer having a
sixth opening; the bottom surface of the fifth layer overlaying the top surface of the sixth
layer;
                                               36

        a seventh layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the seventh layer
having a seventh opening; the bottom surface of the sixth layer overlaying the top
surface of the seventh layer;
        an eighth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the eighth layer
having an eighth opening; the eighth layer being located under the seventh layer; and
        a ninth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the ninth layer having a
ninth opening; the bottom surface of the eighth layer overlaying the top surface of the
ninth layer.
32.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 31 wherein the third opening, fourth
opening, fifth opening and sixth opening are elongate openings substantially in
alignment with each other and having a length and a width; the length extending along a
longitudinal axis.
33.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 32 wherein the second opening, seventh
opening, eighth opening and ninth opening are substantially in alignment with each
other and smaller than the elongate openings of the third opening, fourth opening, fifth
opening and sixth opening.
34.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 33 wherein the second opening, seventh
opening, eighth opening and ninth opening are elongate openings having a major length
and a minor length; the major length being perpendicular the longitudinal axis.
35.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 33 wherein the second opening, seventh
opening, eighth opening and ninth opening have a length and a width; the width of the
second opening, seventh opening, eighth opening and ninth opening being substantially
equal to the width of the third opening, fourth opening, fifth opening and sixth opening.
36.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 33, 34, or 35 further including a tubular
structure having a proximal end and a distal end; the tubular structure being connected
                                             37

to the first layer at the proximal end and extending through the second opening, third
opening, fourth opening, fifth opening, sixth opening and seventh opening.
37.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 36 further wherein the tubular structure
extends through the eighth opening and is connected to the bottom surface of the eighth
layer.
38.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 31 wherein the seventh layer is made of
fibrous material.
39.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 31 wherein the fifth layer and the eighth
layer are made of polyethylene foam.
40.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 31 wherein the second layer is made of
cellular foam.
41.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 31 wherein the second layer is made of
memory foam.
42.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 31 wherein the support is configured to
connect to a laparoscopic trainer.
43.     A method for manufacturing a simulated skin layer for a simulated abdominal
wall, comprising the steps of:
        providing a mold defining a cavity having a first depth and a first well inside the
cavity having a second depth greater than the first depth; the mold having a core
located inside the first well;
        pouring a silicone mixture into the mold cavity and first well;
        curing the silicone inside the mold to form a simulated skin layer having a top
surface and a bottom surface and a tubular structure extending from the top surface; the
                                              38

tubular structure having a lumen defining an opening in the layer at the proximal end
and an opening at a distal end; and
        inverting the tubular structure by passing the distal end of the tubular structure
through the opening.
44.     The method of claim 43 further including the step of forming a thicker portion
circumferentially around the first well.
45.     The method of claim 43 further including the step of providing a mold having a
circumferential well extending around the first well; the circumferential well having a
third depth that is less than the second depth; and forming thicker portion in the layer
around the first well.
46.     The method of claim 43 further including the step of sealing the opening at the
proximal end closed.
47.     The method of claim 43 further including the step of forming a plurality of cuts in
the tubular structure; each cut extending from the distal end toward the proximal end.
48.     A simulated tissue structure, comprising:
        a simulated skin layer having a top surface and a bottom surface and an
elongated tubular structure extending from the top surface; the tubular structure having
a proximal end and a distal end; the tubular structure having a lumen defining an
opening in the simulated skin layer; wherein the tubular structure is inverted by passing
the distal end of the tubular structure through the opening such that the tubular structure
depends from the bottom surface.
49.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 48 further including a plurality of
simulated tissue layers located below the bottom surface of the simulated skin layer; the
plurality of simulated tissue layers and the simulated skin layer forming a simulated
abdominal wall.
                                              39

50.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 49 wherein each simulated tissue layer
includes an opening; the openings in the simulated tissue layers are aligned and the
tubular structure extends through the openings in the plurality of simulated tissue layers.
51.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 48 wherein the opening at the top surface
is closed with adhesive.
52.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 48 wherein the tubular structure has an
elliptical cross-section.
53.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 49 wherein the distal end of the tubular
structure includes cuts extending toward the proximal end; the distal end of the tubular
structure being connected to one of the plurality of simulated tissue layers.
54.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 49 wherein the plurality of simulated
tissue layers and the simulated skin layer are captured within a frame.
55.     The simulate tissue structure of claim 48 wherein a portion of the simulated skin
layer surrounding the opening has an increased thickness relative to the rest of the
simulated skin layer.
56.     The simulated tissue structure of claim 50 wherein the plurality of simulate tissue
layers includes:
        a first layer having a top surface and a bottom surface;
        a second layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of
the first layer overlaying the top surface of the second layer;
        a third layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of the
second layer overlaying the top surface of the third layer;
        a fourth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of
the third layer overlaying the top surface of the fourth layer;
                                               40

         a fifth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of the
fourth layer overlaying the top surface of the fifth layer;
         a sixth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of the
fifth layer overlaying the top surface of the sixth layer;
         a seventh layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the bottom surface of
the sixth layer overlaying the top surface of the seventh layer;
         an eighth layer having a top surface and a bottom surface; the eighth layer being
located under the seventh layer.
57.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 56 wherein the openings of the second
layer, third layer, fourth layer and fifth layer are elongate openings substantially in
alignment with each other and having a length and a width; the length extending along a
longitudinal axis.
58.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 56 wherein the fourth layer and the
seventh layer are made of polyethylene foam.
59.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 56 wherein the first layer is made of
cellular foam.
60.      The simulated tissue structure of claim 56 wherein the first layer is made of
memory foam.
                                                41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
