                                       ABSTRACT
  An electronic terminal device (220, 222) can be configured using a device
5 identifier that is input into the device. The terminal device (220, 222) sends the
  device identifier to a configuration server (210). The configuration server (210)
  responds by sending configuration information to the terminal device (220, 222)
  based on the device identifier.

               3 / 9
  300
               _____
              _____  ____310
        RECEIVE DEVICE ID
                             320
        SEND DEVICE IDTO
             SERVER
                             330
             RECEIVE
         CONFIGURATION
       INFORMATION FROM
             SERVER
                             340
        CONFIGURE DEVICE
         ACCORDING TO
         CONFIGURATION
          INFORMATION
FIG. 3

                                                -1
                                  Configuring Terminal Devices
  1.      Field of the Invention
  The present invention relates to configuring terminal devices in, for example, an access
  control system or an elevator system, in a building.
  1A.     Cross-reference to earlier Application
  The present patent application is a divisional application of earlier AU patent application
  2015263303, and the contents of its patent specification, AU 2015263303 Al, is hereby
  incorporated by way of shorthand cross-reference
  2.      Background of the Invention
  Electronic systems in buildings or at other locations often comprise multiple electronic
  devices that are connected by a network. In at least some cases, one or more of these devices
  is configured by inputting configuration information for that particular device. However,
  configuring the devices can be time-consuming and error-prone.
  Patent document W02013012409A1 describes a system for controlling the appearance of an
  elevator passenger interface device. A user can configure an appearance file, which is then
  used to provide an image file to the passenger interface device. A plurality of passenger
  interface devices can be configured over a network using a server.
  Patent document US20060265386A1 describes a method for configuring a thin client
  connected to a communications network. The thin client sends a request for configuration
  information to a configuration server. The request for configuration information includes
  information on the thin client. The configuration server generates a configuration file
5 containing configuration information based on the received thin client information. The
  configuration file is then sent by the configuration server to the thin client, which uses the
  configuration file for configuration.
  Further options for configuring electronic terminal devices, as used in buildings could be
  advantageous.
0

                                                  -2
  3.       Summary of the Invention
  Broadly, the present invention provides a method / system enabling a terminal device in a
  building to self-configure itself using relevant data. More specifically, such electronic
  terminal device can be configured using a device identifier that is input into the device. The
  terminal device sends the device identifier to a configuration server. The configuration
  server responds by sending configuration information to the terminal device based on the
  device identifier.
  Accordingly, in a method aspect of the present invention, there is provided a terminal device
  self-configuration method which includes: receiving, at the terminal device when installed
  in the building, a device identifier for the terminal device; sending the device identifier from
  the terminal device to a configuration server; receiving configuration information for the
  terminal device from the configuration server; and configuring the terminal device using the
  configuration information. Relevantly, the configuration information includes a physical
  location of the terminal device in the building.
  The configuration information can include also an orientation of the terminal device relative
  to a surface of the building. This improves flexibility in laying out electronic systems in the
  building.
  In one embodiment, the configuration information will include identification of an elevator
  group with which the terminal device works. The terminal device may include a destination
  call input device for an elevator system. These embodiments allow use of the terminal
  device in connection with an elevator system.
  In another embodiment, the terminal device includes a lock for a door. This embodiment
  allows use of the terminal device in connection with an access control system.
5 Advantageously, the device identifier can include a string or a number. The string or
  number may be used regardless of whether the terminal device is used in connection with an
  elevator system or an access system.
  Preferably, the device identifier will be received by the terminal device over a wireless
  connection. This improves flexibility in laying out electronic systems in the building.
o However, manual input by an operator using an interface of the terminal device is also
  possible, instead of or in addition to wireless short-distance communication of the device

                                                 -3
  In another aspect, the method can include generating the configuration information using a
  computer-based layout tool. Such a tool can be used to create the device identifiers for the
  terminal devices.
  In another aspect, the present invention provides a system which includes a configuration
  server, and at least one terminal device installed in a building. The terminal device is
  coupled to the configuration server via a communications network, and programmed to
  locally receive a device identifier for the terminal device when installed in the building. The
  terminal device is further configured to send the device identifier to the configuration
  server, and to receive configuration information for the terminal device from the
  configuration server. The terminal device is furthermore configured to configure itself using
  the configuration information received. The configuration information includes a physical
  location of the terminal device in the building.
  In one embodiment, the system includes a removable storage medium coupled to the
  configuration server, wherein the removable storage medium stores the configuration
  information.
  Further embodiments foresee a computer-based device configured to perform one or more
  of the disclosed method steps.
  At least some embodiments of the disclosed methods can be implemented using a computer
  or computer-based device that performs one or more of the method steps, the computer or
o computer-based device having read instructions for performing the method acts from one or
  more computer-readable storage media. The computer-readable storage media can comprise,
  for example, volatile memory components (such as DRAM or SRAM), nonvolatile memory
  components (such as hard drives, optical disks, Flash RAM, or ROM), or both. The
  computer-readable storage media do not cover pure transitory signals. The methods
5 disclosed herein are not performed solely in the human mind.
  The present invention and its various aspects and further features thereof will be illustrated
  below by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
  4.      Brief Description of the Drawings
  FIG. 1 shows a plan view of a building floor;
0 FIG. 2 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a building system;

                                                 -4
  FIG. 3 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a method for configuring a
  terminal device;
  FIG. 4 shows a block diagram of another exemplary embodiment of a method for
  configuring a terminal device;
  FIG. 5 depicts an exemplary signal exchange between system components;
  FIG. 6 shows an example of an elevator system layout that was generated using a layout
  tool;
  FIG. 7 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a method of creating device
  identifiers using a computer-based layout tool;
  FIG. 8 shows an exemplary embodiment of one type of supporting documentation; and
  FIG. 9 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a computer for use with the
  invention.
  5.       Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
  FIG. 1 shows a plan view of a building floor 100. The floor 100 comprises a lobby area 102
  accessible through an exterior door 110. From the lobby 102, rooms A, B and C can be
  accessed through interior doors 120, 122 and 124, respectively. The lobby 102 also provides
  access to one or more elevators 130, 132 which provide access to other floors in the
o building. In room A, an additional elevator 134 is also accessible. The elevators 130, 132
  can be passenger elevators, while the elevator 134 is a service or freight elevator.
  Alternatively, all of the elevators 130, 132, 134 could be passenger elevators, or they all
  could be service or freight elevators.
5 Although many of the disclosed embodiments are described in the context of a system
  arranged within a building, further embodiments comprise a system that is only partially in a
  building.
  FIG. 2 shows a block diagram of components of an exemplary embodiment of a building
0 management / control system 200. Generally, the system 200 can be used in a setting such

                                                 -5
  configuration server 210 and one or more terminal devices 220, 222. Generally, a terminal
  device is a computer-supervised and/or controlled hardware component that has an assigned
  physical location within an area (e.g., with the building floor 100) and communicates with
  other components in the system 200. Possible examples of terminal devices can include call
  entry terminals for an elevator system, electronic locks of an access control system, etc. In
  the particular context of the floor 100 of FIG. 1, call entry terminals 140, 142, 144 of the
  elevator system are terminal devices. The electronic locks 150, 152, 154, 156 of FIG. 1,
  which control access to the doors 110, 120, 122, 124 are also terminal devices.
  Returning to FIG. 2, the system 200 further comprises a data storage component 260, which
  stores configuration information related to the terminal devices 220, 222. The data storage
  component 260 can be internal or external to the configuration server 210, and can comprise
  any computer-readable storage medium. In particular cases, the data storage component 260
  comprise a MultiMedia Card (MMC) or a secure digital (SD) card.
  In some cases, the system 200 further comprises a programming station 250. In particular
  embodiments, the system 200 comprises an elevator control unit 230, which directs the
  operation of one or more elevators. In additional embodiments, the system 200 also
  comprises an access control system 240. The system 200 can comprise a database 270,
  which contains user information, other information, or both.
  The various components of the system 200 are coupled to each other through a
  communication network 280. In different embodiments, the network 280 comprises wired
  connections, wireless connections, or both.
5
  FIG. 3 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a method 300 for
  configuring a terminal device, such as the terminal devices 220, 222 of FIG. 2:
  In a method act 310, the terminal device receives a device identifier through an input-output
o interface of the device. The device identifier comprises information that allows the terminal
  device to be distinguished from one or more other terminal devices in the system. The
  device identifier can take the form of a number, a string, another type of information, or any
  combination of these.

                                                -6
  server.
  In response, the terminal device receives, from the server, configuration information for the
  terminal device. The configuration information may be sent in XML or any other suitable
  format. This occurs in a method act 330. The configuration information allows the terminal
  device to configure itself for operation with the building system, for example, with an
  elevator system or with an access control system. The configuration information can
  specify, for example: a physical location of the terminal device, an orientation of the
  terminal device relative to another surface (e.g., landscape orientation, portrait orientation);
  an elevator group with which the terminal device operates; type of building (e.g., office
  building, hospital, hotel or apartment).
  Based on the configuration information, the terminal device configures itself in a method act
  340. The terminal device can then operate with the building system.
  FIG. 4 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a method 400 for
  configuring a terminal device, such as the terminal devices 220, 222 of FIG. 2. Generally, a
  configuration server, such as the configuration server 210 of FIG. 2, performs the method
  400.
  In a method act 410, the configuration server receives a device identifier from a terminal
  device. In a method act 420, the configuration server determines the configuration
  information for the terminal device based on the device identifier. For example, the
  configuration information can be read by the configuration server from a computer-readable
5 medium, such as the data storage component 260 of FIG. 2. In a method act 430, the
  configuration server sends the configuration information to the terminal device. The
  terminal device can then configure itself using the configuration information.
  FIG. 5 depicts an exemplary signal exchange between components of the previously
o described embodiments.
  In a signal 510, a device identifier is communicated from a device identifier source to a
  terminal device. In some cases, the device identifier source is a person who inputs the
  device identifier into the terminal device through a user interface (e.g., a keypad, a

                                                 -7
  readable storage device from which the terminal device reads the device identifier. This
  reading can occur in a wired or wireless manner. The storage device could comprise, for
  example, an RFID (radio-frequency identification) tag, an NFC (near-field communication)
  tag, an optical code, or an MMC or other type of removable storage device.
  In a signal 520, the terminal device communicates the device identifier to the configuration
  server. Upon determining the configuration information, the server sends the configuration
  information to the terminal device in a signal 530. The terminal device can then configure
  itself using the configuration information.
  In some embodiments, the device identifiers for terminal devices in the system are created
  using a computer-based layout tool, such as a computer-assisted design (CAD) tool. The
  CAD tool can be run on the programming station 250, for example. CAD tools are
  generally known in many industries; one example of a CAD tool used for elevator system
  layouts is Leegoo Builder from EAS Engineering Automation Systems GmbH of Germany.
  FIG. 6 shows an example of an elevator system layout 600 that was generated using such a
  layout tool. The layout 600 depicts floor two of a building with a ten-floor elevator
  installation. The 2 "dfloor is served by passenger elevators A, B, and C, and by a service
  elevator S. The layout includes three destination call terminals 610, 612, 614. In this
  particular layout, the terminals 610, 612, 614 are PORT terminals, available from the
  Schindler Group of Switzerland. The layout 600 depicts, among other things, the physical
  location of the elevators and the terminals on the building floor.
5 FIG. 7 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of a method 700 of creating device
  identifiers using a computer-based layout tool.
  In a method act 710, a layout of the elevator system is created. The layout can include
  information about, for example: the locations of walls, doors, and other building structures;
o the location of elevator shafts, doors, call entry devices, and other elevator system elements;
  how elements of the elevator system are connected to each other, including wiring
  information; other information; or any combination of these. The layout can be created
  using manual input, automated techniques, or both.

                                                 -8
  associated with the corresponding configuration information. In some cases, the device
  identifiers are based on manual input from a user (e.g., the user selects the identifiers). In
  other cases, the device identifiers are generated according to a pattern, randomly, or pseudo
  randomly. FIG. 6 shows examples of possible device identifiers, which in this case are
  depicted with the layout 600. In this depiction, callout box 620 shows that the terminal 610
  has been assigned a device identifier "EGUBNP". (In this particular embodiment, the
  device identifier is referred to as "ID".) Callout boxes 622 and 624 show device identifiers
  for the tenninals 612 and 614, respectively. In this particular embodiment, the callout boxes
  620, 622, 624 also show additional information about the respective terminals, namely: a
  name for the terminal (e.g., "P+2/1 "); a type name for the terminal (e.g., "PORT 1.1 "); a
  color for the terminal (e.g., whitee"; and a mounting style for the terminal (e.g., "W" for
  wall-mounted, "P" for pedestal-mounted).
  In a method act 730, the device identifiers and the configuration information are written to a
  computer-readable storage device. Using the storage device, the device identifiers and the
  configuration information can then be transferred, directly or indirectly, to a configuration
  server.
  In some embodiments, supporting documentation for the system layout is created in a
  method act 740. Generally, "supporting documentation" refers to documents that may be
  useful in installing or otherwise Implementing at least a portion of a planned elevator
  system.
  FIG. 8 shows an exemplary embodiment of one possible type of supporting documentation,
5 namely a terminal detail list 800. The list 800 contains information about terminal devices
  in an elevator installation. A column 810 indicates a floor number for a given terminal
  device. A column 820 indicates a floor name for a given terminal device. In this particular
  example, the floor name is the same as the floor index, but this need not always be the case.
  A column 830 indicates the device identifier for a terminal device. Column 840 indicates a
o terminal descriptor (name) for a terminal device. Columns 850 and 860 indicate the X- and
  Y-coordinates, respectively, of a terminal device on its particular floor. Other embodiments
  of the terminal detail list 800 can contain other types of information.
  In further embodiments, the supporting documentation comprises a list of parts to be used

                                                  -9
  In additional embodiments, the supporting documentation comprises wiring diagrams. The
  wiring diagrams show, for example, how to connect terminal devices, a configuration
  server, an elevator control unit, and other components.
  In some embodiments, the supporting documentation comprises layout diagrams that show
  the positions of various system components within a floor. Such diagrams can be similar to
  those shown in FIG. 6.
  FIG. 9 shows a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a computer 900 (e.g., part of
  a terminal device, part of a configuration server, part of an access control system, part of an
  elevator control unit, part of a reader, part of a database, part of a programming station) that
  can be used with one or more technologies disclosed in this application. The computer 900
  comprises one or more processors 910. The processor 910 is coupled to a memory 920
  which comprises one or more computer-readable storage media storing software instructions
  930. When executed by the processor 910, the software instructions 930 cause the processor
  910 to perform the method acts disclosed above, as relevant to the respective device with
  which the computer works. Further embodiments of the computer 900 can comprise one or
  more additional components. In at least some embodiments, the computer 900 can connect
  to other computers or electronic devices through the communications network 940.
  In particular embodiments, the computer 900 works with one or more other computers,
  which are located locally, remotely, or both. The various steps of the methodologies
  disclosed above could thus be performed using a distributed computing system. The
5 computer 900 can also comprise an input/output (I/O) device 940 allowing the computer
  900 to exchange information with a person or with another electronic device.
  Although at least some of the embodiments described above have been in the context of an
  elevator installation, the embodiments are also generally applicable to access-control
o systems using electronic locks. For example, any of the locks 150, 152, 154, 156 of FIG. 1
  can serve as terminal devices. Thus, for example, the lock 150 can be configured using a
  device identifier, which the lock 150 sends to the configuration server. The lock 150 can
  then be configured to work with an access control system, with additional devices (e.g.,
  elevator control unit), or with both.

                                                 - 10
  In one non-limiting example, a worker installs a destination call terminal on a building
  floor. In this case, the destination call terminal is a PORT terminal. After connecting the
  terminal to the elevator system network, the worker inputs a device identifier ("EFADSH")
  using a touch screen on the PORT terminal. The terminal sends the device identifier to the
  configuration server which is also connected to the elevator system network. In this case,
  the configuration server is a PORT Technology Gateway (PTO) from Schindler Group of
  Switzerland. Based on the device identifier, the configuration server determines the
  configuration information required for this particular destination call terminal. Particularly,
  the configuration server reads the configuration information from an MMC that is connected
  to the server. The configuration server then sends the configuration information to the
  destination call terminal. The destination call terminal then configures itself using this
  information. In this example, the terminal configures itself to operate with a first of two
  elevator groups in the building (e.g., to place destination calls with the first elevator group).
  The terminal also configures itself to operate its touch-sensitive display in a landscape
  orientation. Thus, the terminal is properly configured by inputting only one piece of
  information (i.e., the device identifier).
  At least some of the disclosed embodiments allow for configuring a terminal device for
  operation on a network without inputting detailed configuration information for the device.
  Instead, the device can be configured by inputting only the device identifier. It is not
  necessary for each terminal device to be individually configured before installation (e.g., at
  the factory where the terminal devices are made). The installation of a terminal device can
  thus proceed more quickly, with a lower error rate, or both. Installation can thus be less
  expensive compared to other methods. Since installation of the terminal device is simpler
5 compared to other procedures, installation workers require less time and less training.
  Although some embodiments of the various methods disclosed herein are described as
  comprising a certain number of method acts, further embodiments of a given method can
  comprise more or fewer method acts than are explicitly disclosed herein. In additional
0 embodiments, method acts could be performed in an order other than as disclosed herein. In
  some cases, two or more method acts can be combined into one method act. In some cases,
  one method act can be divided into two or more method acts.

                                               - 11
Having illustrated and described the principles of the disclosed technologies, it will be
apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments can be modified in
arrangement and detail without departing from such principles.

                                              - 12
   Patent Claims
   1.       In a terminal device, a method for configuring the terminal device when in
   stalled in a building, comprising the following steps:
            receiving, at the terminal device installed in the building, a device identifier
 5 for the terminal device;
            sending, by the terminal device, the device identifier from the terminal device
   to a configuration server;
            receiving, by the terminal device, configuration information for the terminal
   device from the configuration server, the configuration information comprising a
10 physical location of the terminal device in the building; and
            self-configuring the terminal device using the configuration information.
   2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the device identifier comprises information
   enabling the terminal device to be distinguished from one or more other terminal
15 devices in the system.
   3.       The method of claim 2, wherein a respective device identifier for said termi
   nal devices in the system are created using a computer-based layout tool in that a
   layout of one or both of a building elevator system and access control system
20 within at least one defined space in a building is generated, the layout including
   information comprising locations of one or more of walls and other building struc
   tures, room access doors, elevator shafts, elevator access doors, and locations of
   one or more of said terminal devices which after configuration will provide one or
   more elevator call entry devices and access control devices within the building,
25 and wherein the device identifier is then created for the one or more terminal de
   vice(s) either randomly, semi-randomly or based on operator-selection of and allo
   cation of an identifier to the terminal device(s).
   4.       The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the device identifier comprises a
30 string or a number.

                                               -13
   5.       The method of claim 4, wherein after creation of the device identifier(s) each
   is associated with configuration information which includes the type of terminal
   device to which the identifier is allocated and one or more of device name, a
   mounting style for the terminal device such as wall-mounted, pedestal-mounted,
 5 and orientation data of the terminal device relative to a surface of the building.
   6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the device identifier(s) and corresponding
   configuration information are stored to a computer-readable storage device for di
   rect or indirect transfer to the configuration server.
10
   7.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the configuration infor
   mation further comprises assignment information of an elevator group which the ter
   minal device(s) is/are to work with.
15 8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the terminal device(s) comprises a destina
   tion call input device for an elevator system.
   9.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the terminal device(s) com
   prises a lock for a door.
20
   10.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the device identifier
   is received by the terminal device over a wireless connection.
   11.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the device identifier
25 is received through a manual input interface of the terminal device such as a keypad
   or touchscreen.
   12.      A building control system, comprising:
            a configuration server; and
30          at least one terminal device installed in the building, the terminal device cou
   pled to the configuration server, the terminal device arranged and programmed to:
            receive a device identifier for the terminal device when installed in the build
            ing;

                                              - 14
            send the device identifier to the configuration server;
            receive configuration information for the terminal device from the configura
            tion server, the configuration information comprising a physical location of
            the terminal device in the building; and
 5          self-configure the terminal device using the configuration information.
   13.      The system of claim 12, wherein the device identifier comprises information
   enabling the terminal device to be distinguished from one or more other terminal
   devices in the system.
10
   14.      The system of claim 13, wherein a respective device identifier for said ter
   minal devices in the system are created using a computer-based layout tool in that
   a layout of one or both of a building elevator system and access control system
   within at least one defined space in a building is generated, the layout including
15 information comprising locations of one or more of walls and other building struc
   tures, room access doors, elevator shafts, elevator access doors, and locations of
   one or more of said terminal devices which after configuration will provide one or
   more elevator call entry devices and access control devices within the building,
   and wherein the device identifier is then created for the one or more terminal de
20 vice(s) either randomly, semi-randomly or based on operator-selection of and allo
   cation of an identifier to the terminal device(s).
   15.      The system of claim 12, 13 or 14, wherein the device identifier comprises a
   string or a number.
25
   16.      The system of claim 15, wherein after creation of the device identifier(s) each
   is associated with configuration information which includes the type of terminal
   device to which the identifier is allocated and one or more of device name, a
   mounting style for the terminal device such as wall-mounted, pedestal-mounted,
30 and orientation data of the terminal device relative to a surface of the building.

                                            -15
  17.      The system of claim 16, wherein the device identifier(s) and corresponding
  configuration information are stored to a computer-readable storage device for di
  rect or indirect transfer to the configuration server.
5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
