                                           ABSTRACT
This invention provides long-acting, superactive analogs of glycoprotein hormones demonstrating
enhanced bioactivity both in vitro and in vivo as compared to wild type counterparts. The analogs
are particularly useful for treating subjects showing low receptor expression or poor receptor
responsiveness, and for the treatment of any condition associated with glycoprotein hormone
activity.

                                                    1
             GLYCOPROTEIN HORMONE LONG-ACTING SUPERAGONISTS
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0000] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013296709, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[0001] This invention relates generally to modified glycoprotein hormones having superagonist
activity, and the use thereof in the treatment of conditions associated with glycoprotein hormone
activity. More specifically, this invention relates to modified glycoprotein molecules containing
amino acid substitutions and one or more inserted peptides in the alpha subunit as compared to
wild type alpha subunit, wherein such modified molecules exhibit enhanced pharmacological
properties as compared to wild type glycoproteins.
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
[0002] The gonadotropins follitropin (follicle-stimulating hormone, FSH) and chorionic
gonadotropin, (CG), lutropin (luteinizing hormone, LH), and thyrotropin (thyroid- stimulating
hormone, TSH) comprise the family of glycoprotein hormones. Each hormone is a heterodimer of
two non-covalently linked subunits: alpha and beta. Within the same species, the amino acid
sequence of the alpha-subunit is identical in all the hormones, whereas the sequence of the beta
subunit is hormone specific (Pierce, Ann. Rev. Biochem. 50:465-495 (1981)). The fact that the
sequences of the subunits are highly conserved from fish to mammals implies that these hormones
have evolved from a common ancestral protein (Fontaine, Gen. Comp. Endocrinol. 32:341-347
(1977)).
[0003] Previous studies with modified glycoprotein hormones have revealed encouraging data.
For example, in addition to providing modified glycoprotein hormones with increased activity,
further mutations have demonstrated an increase in receptor affinity binding (see e.g. WO
2005/089445 and WO 2005/101000). However, while affinity was increased, studies
demonstrated that modified glycoprotein hormones were cleared as quickly if not faster than their
wild type counterparts. In order to generate a clinically useful superagonist with enhanced
activity, modified glycoprotein superagonist should have an improved biological half-life in
addition to improved receptor binding affinity. However, previous attempts to further modify
glycoprotein hormones to increase half-life and improve bioavailability have been less than

                                                 1a
 satisfactory and instead the modified glycoprotein hormones demonstrated only an attenuated
response.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION

[0004] The invention encompasses a modified glycoprotein hormone comprising an amino acid sequence
with at least one conservative basic amino acid substitution at Q 13, E14, P16 or Q20 and an insert of
VNVTINVT (SEQ ID NO: 20) between D3 and Q5 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein hormone.
[0005] In some embodiments, the modified glycoprotein hormone comprises at least two or at least three
basic amino acid substitutions at Q13, P16 and Q20. In some embodiments, the modified glycoprotein
hormone further comprises a basic amino acid substitution at E14. In some embodiments, the basic
amino acid is arginine.
[00061 In some embodiments, the alpha subunit comprises an amino acid sequence with at least 85%
identity to SEQ ID NO: 11 and further comprises the beta subunit of leutenizing hormone (LH), chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). In some
embodiments, the alpha subunit is derived from a human alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 6).
[00071 The invention encompasses a modified glycoprotein hormone comprising an amino acid sequence
with at least one conservative basic amino acid substitution at KI5, K117, K20 or K24 and an insert of
NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) between F6 and T7 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein hormone.
100081 In some embodiments, modified glycoprotein hormone comprises at least two, or at least three, or
at least four basic amino acid substitutions at K15, K17, K20 and K24. In some embodiments, the
modified glycoprotein hormone further comprises a basic amino acid substitution at E18. In some
embodiments, the basic amino acid is arginine.
100091 In some embodiments, the alpha subunit comprises an amino acid sequence with at least 85%
identity to SEQ ID NO: 7 and further comprises the beta subunit of leutenizing hormone (LH), chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). In some
embodiments, the alpha subunit is derived from a bovine, porcine, or ovine alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 2,
SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 3, respectively).
100101 The invention encompasses a modified glycoprotein hormone comprising an amino acid sequence
with at least one conservative basic amino acid substitution at K15, E18, K20 or K24 and an insert of
NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) between F6 and T7 or alternatively an insert of NV between F6 and T7 plus an
insert of INV between T7 and T8 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein hormone.

100111 In some embodiments, modified glycoprotein hormone comprises at least two, or at least three, or
at least four basic amino acid substitutions at K15, E18, K20 and K24. In some embodiments, the
modified glycoprotein hormone includes an insert of NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) between F6 and T7 of the
alpha subunit. In some embodiments, the modified glycoprotein hormone includes an insert of NV
between F6 and T7 plus an insert of INV between T7 and T8 of the alpha subunit. In some embodiments,
the basic amino acid is arginine of histidine. In some embodiments, the basic amino acid is arginine.
[00121 In some embodiments, the alpha subunit comprises an amino acid sequence with at least 85%
identity to SEQ ID NO: 4 and further comprises the beta subunit of leutenizing hormone (LH), chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). In some
embodiments, the alpha subunit is derived from an equine alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 4).
100131 The invention also encompasses a method for stimulating a glycoprotein receptor in an animal,
comprising administering of the above modified glycoprotein hormones to the animal. The invention also
encompasses a method for stimulating ovulation in an animal comprising administering any of the above
the modified glycoprotein hormones to the animal. In some embodiments the animal is a human, cow,
sheep, pig or horse.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
100141 Figure 1 shows cAMP stimulation in CHO-FSHR cells with selected bFSH analogs produced by
transient transfection. Figure 1A shows a comparison of Folltropin@-V (pFSH), bFSH-WT (wild-type)
with bFSH-5R analog. Figure IB shows attenuation of the in vitro bioactivity of hFSH-TR4402 analog
(Transient 4402) by two N-terminal extensions (ANITV, NITV) and one internal neoglycosylation
(V78N) (SPA cAMP assay). Figure IC shows a comparison of bFSH-5R analog with the Insert I
(5R+Insert 1) and Insert 2 (5R+Insert2).
100151 Figures 2A and 2B show PK screening assay of various bFSH analogs after single subcutaneous
injection in mice. In each experiment, 5 mice were used for each preparation. Blood samples were taken
at 24, 32 and 48 h after injection, plasma levels were deducted and the data were expressed as % of
injected dose (%ID). FSH levels in plasma samples were assayed using FSH ELISA (Endodrine
Technologies).
[0016] Figures 3A-D show the analysis of different lots of TR55601 production. Figure 3A illustrates
charge heterogeneity analysis using IEF followed by Western blot. Suboptimal sialylation of Lot 3

(Lanes 2 and 3) is in sharp contrast with optimal highly acidic isoforms detected in Lot 4 (Lanes 5 and 6).
Lane 1, IEF 3-10 marker; Lane 2, TR55601/Lot 3(8pg); Lane 3, TR55601/Lot 3(4pg); Lane 4 and 8,
TR4401 (1pg); Lane 5, TR5560I/Lot 4 (8gg); Lane 6, TR55601/Lot 4 ( 4 pg); Lane 8, IEF 3-10 marker.
Figure 3B illustrates Analysis of charged isoforms using neuraminidase (Vibrio cholerae), 1F and
Western blot. Untreated TR55601/Lot 4 sample (Lanes 2 and 3) and TR55601/Lot 4 sample treated with
neuraminidase before applying to 3-10 1EF gel (Lanes 4-6). Lane 1, IEF 3-10 marker; Lane 2, untreated
TR55601/Lot 4 (8gg); Lane 3, untreated TR55601/Lot 4 ( 4 gg); Lane 4, treated TR55601/Lot 4 ( 4 gg);
Lane 5, treated TR55601/Lot 4 (2ptg); Lane 6, treated TR5560 I/Lot 4 (1pg). The IEF profile for the
neuraminidase digested isoforms has shifted to the pl range from 7.8 to 10.0. The average shift of pI is
about 5 pH units and multiple bands (close to 10 bands) transformed into one major band (pI -9.5) and
three minor bands (pI 7.8-10.0), indicating that the majority of the observed charge heterogeneity (Figure
3A - Lot 4) is dependent on terminal sialic acid residues with a minor component of other modifications
such as deamidation and/or proteolytic degradation. The residual basic bands (pt 4.8-5.5) shown in 3B
are nonspecific, derived from neuraminidase preparation. Figure 3C shows the analysis of charged
isoforms of TR55601-Lot 5 by 1EF 3-10 in pI gradient gel (lEF 3-10) followed by Western blotting. Lane
 1, 1EF 3-10 marker; Lane 2, TR55601-Lot 5 (4pig); Lane 3, TR55601-Lot 5 ( 4 pg); Lane 4, TR55601 -Lot
4 (4 ttg); Lane 5, TR55601-Lot 4 (8 g); Lane 6, TR55601-Lot 3 (4 pg); lane 7, TR55601-Lot 3 (8jg).
Figure 3D illustrates SDS-Western Blot analysis of TR55601 Lot 5 compared to TR55601 Lot 4 and Fol
V. Lane 1, protein marker; Lane 2: Lot 4, 500 ng; Lane 3: Lot 5, lul; Lane 4: empty lane; Lane 5: Lot 4,
4ug; Lane 6: Lot 5, 15 ul; Lane 7: Fol-V, 673 ng; Lane 8: protein marker.
[0017] Figure 4 shows the results from Classic Steelman-Pohley bioassay with hCG augmentation of
ovarian weight in immature (22 days old) Sprague-Dawley female rats. Ovarian weights were measured
72 hours after dosing. Data are presented as average total ovarian weight of two ovaries + SEM (n=5 per
dose, per group). Rats were stimulated with one single injection of test article or vehicle, supplemented
with 40 1U of hCG. The following dosage groups were used: Group I was receiving hCG only (no FSH),
Groups 2-5 were receiving TR55601 Lot 4 (0.33 pg, 1.0 pg, 3.33 gg, and 10 pg, respectively from left to
right), Groups 6-8 were receiving Folltropin-V@ (3,333 pg, 10,000 pg, and 30,000 pg respectively from
left to right), and Group 9-10 was receiving TR4401 (1.0 jg and 3.33 gg).
[00181 Figure 5 demonstates a follicular wave synchronizing protocol for superovulation, induction of
ovulation and fixed-time artificial insemination. The 8 injections of Folltropin-VR (Bioniche) are
replaced with a single or double injection of TR55601.

100191 Figure 6 shows the mean number of follicles (3 to 5 mm in diameter) during superstimulation
treatment in beef cows treated with 60 pg rFSH given by a single IM. injection or 300 mg Folltropin-V
(Control) given in twice daily IM. injections over 4 days (3 experiments combined).
[0020] Figure 7 shows the mean number of follicles 6 to 8 mm in diameter during superstimulation
treatment in beef cows treated with 60 pg rFSH given by a single LM. injection or 300 mg Folltropin-V
(Control) given in twice daily IM. injections over 4 days (3 experiments combined).
100211 Figure 8 shows the mean number of follicles >9 mm in diameter during superstimulation
treatment in beef cows treated with 60 pg rFSH given by a single IM. injection or 300 mg Folltropin-V
(Control) given in twice daily IM. injections over 4 days (3 experiments combined).
[00221 Figure 9 shows the mean diameter profiles of all follicles >3 mm in diameter during
superstimulation treatment in beef cows treated with 60 gg rFSH given by a single I.M. injection or 300
mg Folltropin-V (Control) given in twice daily LM. injections over 4 days (3 experiments combined).
[00231 Figure 10A shows a comparison in cAMP production for the insert in the human alpha subunit
(A2), the insert without the amino-terminal valine (Insert 2), the 5 arginine substitutions only without the
insert (SR) and control of medium only. Figure lOB shows the EC50 for the three constructs tested.
[00241 Figure 1 IA shows a comparison of cAMP production in response to the human modified alpha
subunit with the insert of SEQ ID NO: I and the bovine modified alpha subunits that lack the insert.
Figure 11B shows a comparison of cAMP production in response to the human modified alpha subunit
and the bovine subunits with and without various inserts.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00251 The present invention provides modified superactive glycoprotein hormone molecules showing
surprisingly enhanced potency and increased biological half-life as compared to their wild type
counterparts. Being modified means that, while the protein contains an amino acid sequence which
differs from the wild-type glycoprotein hormones, the sequence has been changed such that it is not
identical to the known glycoprotein hormones sequence of another species. Superactivity may be
assessed according to a variety of parameters, including potency and efficacy. Potency is a parameter of
bioactivity that is determined by measuring the half maximal response. Differences in potency are
determined by comparing the value of the glycoprotein hormones response of the analog halfway between

baseline and maximum (ECso) versus that of wild type glycoprotein hormones. Glycoprotein hormone
responses may be measured in vitro using purified proteins, or may be estimated following transient
transfection of a nucleic acid encoding the modified protein. Glycoprotein hormone responses may also
be measured in vivo, i.e. in an animal responsive to said glycoprotein hormone analog. Such responses
encompass any known cellular or biological and quantitative or qualitative response of glycoprotein
hormone binding to its receptor, e.g. cAMP production, synthesis of proteins such as progesterone,
fertilization rate, blastocyst formation rate, embryo development per fertilized oocyte, etc. Efficacy
(Vmax) or maximum response is another parameter of bioactivity. As discussed herein, parameters of
bioactivity may vary depending on receptor number and receptor coupling in the assay cell line. In
systems with lower receptor numbers or impaired coupling, differences are more discernable in terms of
Vmax (efficacy). In systems where receptors are overexpressed, differences in potency are more visible.
[00261 For example, in instances where the modified glycoprotein hormone is a modified FSH or CG
molecule, in vivo quantitative and qualitative parameters such as quantity of oocytes, fertilization rate and
blastocyst and embryo formation rates may be measured at the maximally effective dose for oocyte
number. The maximally effective dose for oocyte number is the optimal amount of superactive FSH for
both oocyte quality and quantity. The maximally effective dose for oocyte number is dependent on an
animal's weight and rate of metabolism. For example, the maximally effective dose for a larger animal
with a slower rate of metabolism is greater than the maximally effective dose for a smaller animal with a
higher rate of metabolism. The maximally effective dose is determined empirically for each animal.
[0027] However, regardless of the system used, the modified superactive glycoprotein hormone proteins
of the invention may demonstrate at least about a 2 to 10 fold increase in potency or at least about a 20
fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, 70-fold, 80-fold, 90-fold or even 100-fold increase in potency
compared to a wild type counterpart, or about a 2 to 10% increase in maximal efficacy, or at least a 20%,
30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or even 100% increase in maximal efficacy compared to a wild
type counterpart. The superactive analogs of the invention may also provide about a five to ten fold
increase in potency or 5% to 10% increase in maximal efficacy as compared to wild type FSH. Some of
the modified proteins of the invention may demonstrate at least about a thirty to fifty fold increase in
potency or 30% to 50% increase in maximal efficacy as compared to wild type. Thus, the modified
glycoprotein hormone proteins of the present invention may be useful for treating subjects with low
receptor number or deficiencies in receptor response, since the modified proteins of the invention may

maintain at least a 10 fold increase in potency or 10% increase in maximal efficacy even in systems with
low receptor number or response.
100281 The rate of absorption of a modified superactive glycoprotein hormone may result in increased
duration of action. A modified glycoprotein hormone analog with a decreased rate of absorption and
increased duration of action may be beneficial for hyposensitive subjects, such as those suffering from
fertility disorders. The rate of absorption is measured by K, The rate of elimination is measured by K.
100291 The modified glycoprotein hormone molecules of the invention include modified proteins of
species selected from the group consisting of human, bovine, equine, porcine, ovine, marine, rat, rabbit,
primate, etc. Fish glycoprotein hormone (also known as GTH-I) may be used in aquaculture, i.e., in
order to assist growth of endangered or other fish species in captivity. Other species of modified
glycoprotein hormones may be used in agricultural breeding, and further in a laboratory setting for testing
the effects of different combined mutations on various male and female glycoprotein hormone-related
conditions.
100301 The modified glycoprotein hormone molecules of other species have substitutions at positions
corresponding to those in the modified human (e.g. Figure 12), bovine (see Figure 4), ovine, equine and
porcine glycoprotein hormone molecules disclosed herein, which may be identified using any alignment
program, including but not limited to DNASIS, ALIONment, SIM and GCG programs such as Gap,
BestFit, FrameAlign and Compare.
[00311 Modified glycoprotein hormone molecules of the present invention comprise at least a modified
alpha-subunit., wherein the alpha subunit comprises at least two basic amino acids such at lysine residues.
In human alpha subunits, the basic amino acids may be introduced at positions 13, 14, 16 and 20 of wild
type human alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 6). In other species, the basic amino acids may be introduced at
positions corresponding to positions 15, 17, 20 and 24 of wild type bovine alpha (SEQ ID NO: 2), wild
type porcine alpha (SEQ ID NO: 5) and wild type ovine alpha (SEQ ID NO: 3), and positions 15, 20 and
24 of wild type equine alpha (SEQ ID NO: 4). The glutamate residue at position 18 (bovine, porcine,
ovine and equine) may also be substituted with a basic amino acid. In some embodiments, the basic
amino acid may be arginine or histidine. In some embodiments, the basic amino acid may be arginine.
100321 A peptide with the sequence NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) or TNVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 12) or
VNVTINVT (SEQ ID NO: 20) may be inserted between amino acids D3 and Q5 of the human alpha
submit (SEQ ID NO: 6) and between F6 and T7 of the bovine, porcine, ovine and equine alpha subunits.

Alternatively, modified glycoprotein hormone alpha subunit of bovine, porcine, ovine or euqine may
include an insert of NV between F6 and T7 plus an insert of INV between T7 and T8. The modified
proteins of the invention may also contain further substitutions, particularly conservative substitutions
that do not alter the enhanced properties of the protein. Typically, however, such modified proteins will
contain less than five substitutions at positions other than those listed above, and may exhibit complete
amino acid sequence identity with the corresponding wild-type glycoprotein hormone alpha in positions
other than the positions listed above.
[00331 Basic amino acids comprise the amino acids lysine, arginine, and histidine, and any other basic
amino acid which may be a modification to any of these three amino acids, synthetic basic amino acids
not normally found in nature, or any other amino acid which is positively charged at a neutral pH. The
basic amino acids, among others, are selected from the group consisting of lysine and arginine.
100341 Exemplary modified alpha molecules having the basic amino acid substitutions and the peptide
insert are set forth in SEQ ID NO: II (human), SEQ ID NO: 7 (bovine), SEQ ID NO: 8 (ovine), SEQ ID
NO: 10 (porcine), and SEQ ID NO: 9 (equine). The present invention provides for modified
glycoproteis with amino acid sequences with at least 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%,
93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or higher identity with any of SEQ ID NO: 7 to 11.
[00351 The modified alpha subunits of the modified glycoprotein hormone proteins of the invention may
also have an alpha subunit comprising two, three, four or five basic amino acid substitutions. The
substituted amino acids may be lysine residues, glutamate residues, proline residues or glutamine
residues. For example, in wild type bovine alpha subunits, one or more of the lysines at positions 15, 17,
20 and 24 may be substituted, as well as the glutamate at position 18 with a basic amino acid, such as an
arginine and a histidine. In wild type human alpha subunits, one or more of the glutamines at positions 13
and 20 may be substituted, as well as the glutamate at position 14 and the proline at position 16 with a
basic amino acid, such as an arginine and a histidine. In wild type porcine alpha subunits, one or more of
the lysines at positions 15, 17, 20 and 24 may be substituted, as well as the glutamate at position 18 with a
basic amino acid, such as an arginine and a histidine. In wild type ovine alpha subunits, one or more of
the lysines at positions 15, 17, 20 and 24 may be substituted, as well as the glutamate at position 18 with a
basic amino acid, such as an arginine and a histidine. In wild type equine alpha subunits, one or more of
the lysines at positions 15, 20 and 24 may be substituted, as well as the glutamate at position 18 with a
basic amino acid, such as an arginine and a histidine.

100361 By way of example, further modified bovine alpha subunits are presented in the sequences as set
forth in SEQ ID NO: 13 to 19 and 22. The present invention provides for modified glycoproteins with
amino acid sequences with at least 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
97%, 98%, 99% or higher identity with any of SEQ ID NO: 13 to 19 and 22.
100371 By way of example, further modified equine alpha subunits are presented in the sequences as set
forth in SEQ ID NO: 38 to 42. The present invention provides for modified glycoproteins with amino
acid sequences with at least 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
98%, 99% or higher identity with any of SEQ ID NO: 43 to 45.
[00381 Further modified alpha subunits may be designed by comparing the amino acid sequences of the
alpha subunit of interest to that of other species to identify the corresponding basic residues in the
proteins of other species. Such methods are disclosed in U.S. Patent 6,361,992 which is herein
incorporated by reference in its entirety. Consideration may also be given to the relative biological
activity of the glycoprotein hormone from various species as to which species to choose for comparison
and substitution. Further, homology modeling based on the structure of related glycoprotein hormones is
useful to identify surface-exposed amino acid residues. To modify additional amino acid positions,
glycoprotein hormone sequences from human and non-humans can be aligned using standard computer
software programs such as DNASIS (Hitachi Software Engineering) or any of the other alignment
programs listed above, including but not limited to ALIONment, SIM and GCG programs such as Gap,
BestFit, FrameAlign and Compare. The amino acid residues that differ between the human and the non
human glycoprotein hormone can then be substituted using one of the above-mentioned techniques, and
the resultant glycoprotein hormone assayed for its potency using one of the herein-mentioned assays.
[0039] Accordingly, the present invention also provides a modified FSH protein having increased
potency over a wild-type FSH from the same species comprising the modified alpha subunits described
herein.
[0040] The present invention also provides a modified LH protein having increased potency over a wild
type LH from the same species comprising the modified alpha subunits described herein.
100411 The present invention also provides a modified TSH protein having increased potency over a
wild-type TSH from the same species comprising the modified alpha subunits described herein.

100421 The present invention also provides a modified CG protein having increased potency over a wild
type CG from the same species comprising the modified alpha subunits described herein.
10043] The present invention also encompasses fragments of the analogs described herein that have
either superagonist or antagonist activity. For example, fragments of the modified alpha chains of the
invention may be used either alone or in combination with either a fragment or full length beta chain to
create superagonist compounds. In some cases, fragments of the modified alpha subunit molecules of the
invention may also be used as antagonists, for instance, to limit the duration of activity of an glycoprotein
hormone therapeutic after it has been administered.
[00441 The present invention also provides for nucleic acid sequences encoding the modified
glycoprotein hormones described herein. The present invention also provides nucleic acids that encode
polypeptides with conservative amino acid substitutions. The nucleic acids of the present invention may
encode polypeptides that transport sugar. The isolated nucleic acids may have at least about 30%, 40%,
50%, 60%, 70%, 80% 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99% sequence identity with the above identified sequences.
The isolated nucleic acids may encode a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having at least about
30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99% sequence identity to amino acid sequences
encoded by the above identified accession numbers. The isolated nucleic acid encoding a transporter may
hybridize to the above identified nucleic acid sequences.
100451 The nucleic acid encoding the modified glycoprotein hormone proteins may be genetically fused
to expression control sequences for expression. Suitable expression control sequences include promoters
that are applicable in the target host organism. Such promoters are well known to the person skilled in the
ad for diverse hosts from prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms and are described in the literature. For
example, such promoters may be isolated from naturally occurring genes or may be synthetic or chimeric
promoters.
[0046] The present invention also provides expression cassettes for inserting the nucleic acid encoding a
modified glycoprotein hormone protein into target nucleic acid molecules such as vectors. For this
purpose, the expression cassette is provided with nucleotide sequences at the 5'- and 3-flanks to facilitate
removal from and insertion into specific sequence positions like, for instance, restriction enzyme
recognition sites or target sequences for homologous recombination as, e.g. catalyzed by recombinases.
In addition to the nucleic acid molecule or expression cassette of the invention, the vector may contain
further genes such as marker genes which allow for the selection of said vector in a suitable host cell and

under suitable conditions. Generally, the vector also contains one or more origins of replication. The
vectors may also comprise terminator sequences to limit the length of transcription beyond the nucleic
acid encoding the transporters of the present invention.
[0047] Advantageously, the nucleic acid molecules contained in the vectors are operably linked to
expression control sequences allowing expression, i.e. ensuring transcription and synthesis of a
translatable RNA, in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells.
[0048] The term isolated refers to molecules separated from other cell/tissue constituents (e.g. DNA or
RNA), that are present in the natural source of the macromolecule. The term isolated as used herein also
refers to a nucleic acid or peptide that is substantially free of cellular material, viral material, and culture
medium when produced by recombinant DNA techniques, or that is substantially free of chemical
precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. Moreover, an isolated nucleic acid or
peptide may include nucleic acid or peptide fragments which are not naturally occurring as fragments and
would not be found in the natural state.
[00491 The terms plasmid and vector are used interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used
form of vector. However, the invention is intended to include such other forms of expression vectors
which serve equivalent functions and which become known in the art subsequently hereto. A vector may
be any of a number of nucleic acids into which a desired sequence may be inserted by restriction and
ligation for transport between different genetic environments or for expression in a host cell. Vectors are
typically composed of DNA, although RNA vectors are also available. Vectors include, but are not
limited to, plasmids and phagemids. A cloning vector is one which is able to replicate in a host cell, and
which is further characterized by one or more endonuclease restriction sites at which the vector may be
cut in a determinable fashion and into which a desired DNA sequence may be ligated such that the new
recombinant vector retains its ability to replicate in the host cell. In the case of plasmids, replication of
the desired sequence may occur many times as the plasmid increases in copy number within the host
bacterium or just a single time per host before the host reproduces by mitosis. In the case of phage,
replication may occur actively during a lytic phase or passively during a lysogenic phase.
[0050] Vectors may further contain a promoter sequence. A promoter may include an untranslated
nucleic acid sequence usually located upstream of the coding region that contains the site for initiating
transcription of the nucleic acid. The promoter region may also include other elements that act as
regulators of gene expression. In further embodiments of the invention, the expression vector contains an

additional region to aid in selection of cells that have the expression vector incorporated. The promoter
sequence is often bounded (inclusively) at its 3' terminus by the transcription initiation site and extends
upstream (5' direction) to include the minimum number of bases or elements necessary to initiate
transcription at levels detectable above background. Within the promoter sequence will be found a
transcription initiation site, as well as protein binding domains responsible for the binding of RNA
polymerase. Eukaryotic promoters will often, but not always, contain TATA boxes and CAT boxes.
Activation of promoters may be specific to certain cells or tissues, for example by transcription factors
only expressed in certain tissues, or the promoter may be ubiquitous and capable of expression in most
cells or tissues.
100511 Vectors may further contain one or more marker sequences suitable for use in the identification
and selection of cells which have been transformed or transfected with the vector. Markers include, for
example, genes encoding proteins which increase or decrease either resistance or sensitivity to antibiotics
or other compounds, genes which encode enzymes whose activities are detectable by standard assays
known in the art (e.g., p-galactosidase or alkaline phosphatase), and genes which visibly affect the
phenotype of transformed or transfected cells, hosts, colonies or plaques. Vectors may be those capable
of autonomous replication and expression of the structural gene products present in the DNA segments to
which they are operably joined. An expression vector is one into which a desired nucleic acid sequence
may be inserted by restriction and ligation such that it is operably joined or operably linked to regulatory
sequences and may be expressed as an RNA transcript. Expression refers to the transcription and/or
translation of an endogenous gene, transgene or coding region in a cell.
100521 A coding sequence and a regulatory sequence are operably joined when they are covalently linked
in such a way as to place the expression or transcription of the coding sequence under the influence or
control of the regulatory sequences. If it is desired that the coding sequences be translated into a
functional protein, two DNA sequences are said to be operably joined if induction of a promoter in the 5'
regulatory sequences results in the transcription of the coding sequence and if the nature of the linkage
between the two DNA sequences does not (1) result in the introduction of a frame-shift mutation, (2)
interfere with the ability of the promoter region to direct the transcription of the coding sequences, or (3)
interfere with the ability of the corresponding RNA transcript to be translated into a protein. Thus, a
promoter region would be operably joined to a coding sequence if the promoter region were capable of
effecting transcription of that DNA sequence such that the resulting transcript might be translated into the
desired protein or polypeptide.

[0053] Some aspects of the present invention include the transformation and/or transfection of nucleic
acids. Transformation is the introduction of exogenous or heterologous nucleic acid to the interior of a
prokaryotic cell. Transfection is the introduction of exogenous or heterologous nucleic acid to the interior
of a eukaryotic cell. The transforming or transfecting nucleic acid may or may not be integrated
(covalently linked) into chromosomal DNA making up the genome of the cell. In prokaryotes, for
example, the transforming nucleic acid may be maintained on an episomal element such as a plasmid or
viral vector. With respect to eukaryotic cells, a stably transfected cell is one in which the transfecting
nucleic acid has become integrated into a chromosome so that it is inherited by daughter cells through
chromosome replication. This stability is demonstrated by the ability of the eukaryotic cell to establish
cell lines or clones comprised of a population of daughter cells containing the transfected nucleic acid.
100541 There are numerous E. coli (Escherichia coli) expression vectors known to one of ordinary skill in
the art which are useful for the expression of the nucleic acid insert. Other microbial hosts suitable for
use include bacilli, such as Bacillus subtilis, and other enterobacteriaceac, such as Salmonella, Serratia,
and various Pseudomonas species. In these prokaryotic hosts one can also make expression vectors,
which will typically contain expression control sequences compatible with the host cell (e.g., an origin of
replication). In addition, any number of a variety of well-known promoters will be present, such as the
lactose promoter system, a tryptophan (Trp) promoter system, a beta-lactamase promoter system, or a
promoter system from phage lambda. The promoters will typically control expression, optionally with an
operator sequence, and have ribosome binding site sequences for example, for initiating and completing
transcription and translation. Ifnecessary, an amino terminal methionine can be provided by insertion of
a Met codon 5' and in-frame with the downstream nucleic acid insert. Also, the carboxyl-terminal
extension of the nucleic acid insert can be removed using standard oligonucleotide mutagenesis
procedures.
[00551 Additionally, yeast expression can be used. There are several advantages to yeast expression
systems. First, evidence exists that proteins produced in a yeast secretion systems exhibit correct
disulfide pairing. Second, post-translational glycosylation is efficiently carried out by yeast secretory
systems. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae pre-pro-alpha-factor leader region (encoded by the MF"-I gene)
is routinely used to direct protein secretion from yeast. (Brake, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., 81:4642-4646
(1984)). The leader region of pre-pro-alpha-factor contains a signal peptide and a pro-segment which
includes a recognition sequence for a yeast protease encoded by the KEX2 gene: this enzyme cleaves the
precursor protein on the carboxyl side of a Lys-Arg dipeptide cleavage signal sequence. The FSH coding

sequence can be fused in-frame to the pre-pro-alpha-factor leader region. This constmuct is then put under
the control of a strong transcription promoter, such as the alcohol dehydrogenase I promoter or a
glycolytic promoter. The nucleic acid coding sequence is followed by a translation termination codon
which is followed by transcription termination signals. Alternatively, the nucleic acid coding sequences
can be fused to a second protein coding sequence, such as Sj26 or beta.-galactosidase, which may be used
to facilitate purification of the fusion protein by affinity chromatography. The insertion of protease
cleavage sites to separate the components of the fusion protein is applicable to constructs used for
expression in yeast. Efficient post-translational glycosylation and expression of recombinant proteins can
also be achieved in Baculovirus systems.
[0056] Mammalian cells permit the expression of proteins in an environment that favors important post
translational modifications such as folding and cysteine pairing, addition of complex carbohydrate
structures, and secretion of active protein. Vectors useful for the expression of active proteins in
mammalian cells are characterized by insertion of the protein coding sequence between a strong viral
promoter and a polyadenylation signal. The vectors can contain genes conferring hygromycin resistance,
gentamicin resistance, or other genes or phenotypes suitable for use as selectable markers, or
methotexate resistance for gene amplification. The chimeric protein coding sequence can be introduced
into a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line using a methotrexate resistance-encoding vector, or other
cell lines using suitable selection markers. Presence of the vector DNA in transformed cells can be
confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Production of RNA corresponding to the insert coding sequence
can be confirmed by Northern blot analysis. A number of other suitable host cell lines capable of
secreting intact human proteins have been developed in the art, and include the CHO cell lines, HeLa
cells, myeloma cell lines, Jurkat cells, etc. Expression vectors for these cells can include expression
control sequences, such as an origin of replication, a promoter, an enhancer, and necessary information
processing sites, such as ribosome binding sites, RNA splice sites, polyadenylation sites, and
transcriptional terminator sequences. Exemplary expression control sequences are promoters derived
from immunoglobulin genes, SV40, Adenovirus, Bovine Papilloma Virus, etc. The vectors containing
the nucleic acid segments of interest can be transferred into the host cell by well-known methods, which
vary depending on the type of cellular host. For example, calcium chloride transformation is commonly
utilized for prokaryotic cells, whereas calcium phosphate, DEAE dextran, or lipofectin mediated
transfection or electroporation may be used for other cellular hosts.

100571   Alternative vectors for the expression of genes in mammalian cells, those similar to those
developed for the expression of human gamma-interferon, tissue plasminogen activator, clotting Factor
VIll, hepatitis B virus surface antigen, protease Nexinl, and eosinophil major basic protein, can be
employed. Further, the vector can include CMV promoter sequences and a polyadenylation signal
available for expression of inserted nucleic acids in mammalian cells (such as COS-7).
[00581 Expression of the gene or hybrid gene can be by either in vivo or in vitro. In vivo synthesis
comprises transforming prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells that can serve as host cells for the vector.
Alternatively, expression of the gene can occur in an in vitro expression system. For example, in vitro
transcription systems are commercially available which are routinely used to synthesize relatively large
amounts of mRNA. In such in vitro transcription systems, the nucleic acid encoding the glycoprotein
hormone would be cloned into an expression vector adjacent to a transcription promoter. For example,
the Bluescript II cloning and expression vectors contain multiple cloning sites which are flanked by
strong prokaryotic transcription promoters (Stratagene). Kits are available which contain all the
necessary reagents for in vitro synthesis of an RNA from a DNA template such as the Bluescript vectors
(Stratagene). RNA produced in vitro by a system such as this can then be translated in vitro to produce
the desired glycoprotein hormone (Stratagene).
100591 Another method of producing a glycoprotein hormone is to link two peptides or polypeptides
together by protein chemistry techniques. For example, peptides or polypeptides can be chemically
synthesized using currently available laboratory equipment using either Fmoc (9
fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl) or Boe (tert-butyloxycarbonoyl) chemistry (Applied Biosystems). One
skilled in the art can readily appreciate that a peptide or polypeptide corresponding to a hybrid
glycoprotein hormone can be synthesized by standard chemical reactions. For example, a peptide or
polypeptide can be synthesized and not cleaved from its synthesis resin whereas the other fragment of a
hybrid peptide can be synthesized and subsequently cleaved from the resin, thereby exposing a terminal
group which is functionally blocked on the other fragment. By peptide condensation reactions, these two
fragments can be covalently joined via a peptide bond at their carboxyl and amino termini, respectively,
to form a hybrid peptide. (Grant, Synthetic Peptides: A User Guide, W.H. Freeman (1992) and Bodansky,
Principles of Peptide Synthesis, Springer-Verlag (1993)). Alternatively, the peptide or polypeptide can by
independently synthesized in vivo as described above. Once isolated, these independent peptides or
polypeptides may be linked to form a glycoprotein hormone via similar peptide condensation reactions.
For example, enzymatic or chemical ligation of cloned or synthetic peptide segments can allow relatively

short peptide fragments to be joined to produce larger peptide fragments, polypeptides or whole protein
domains (Abrahmsen, Biochemistry, 30:4151 (1991); Dawson, Science, 266:776-779 (1994)).
100601 The modified glycoprotein hormones of the present invention can be recombinant proteins
obtained by cloning nucleic acids encoding the polypeptide in an expression system capable of producing
the polypeptide fragments thereof For example, one can determine the active domain of a modified alpha
subunit which, together with the beta subunit, can interact with a glycoprotein hormone receptor and
cause a biological effect associated with the glycoprotein hormone. In one example, amino acids found to
not contribute to either the activity or the binding specificity or affinity of the glycoprotein hormone can
be deleted without a loss in the respective activity.
[00611 For example, amino or carboxyl-terminal amino acids can be sequentially removed from either
the native or the modified glycoprotein hormone and the respective activity tested in one of many
available assays described above. In another example, the modified proteins of the invention may have a
portion of either amino terminal or carboxyl terminal amino acids, or even an internal region of the
hormone, replaced with a polypeptide fragment or other moiety, such as biotin, which can facilitate in the
purification of the modified glycoprotein hormone. For example, a modified glycoprotein can be fused to
a maltose binding protein, through either peptide chemistry of cloning the respective nucleic acids
encoding the two polypeptide fragments into an expression vector such that the expression of the coding
region results in a hybrid polypeptide. The hybrid polypeptide can be affinity purified by passing it over
an amylose affinity column, and the modified glycoprotein can then be separated from the maltose
binding region by cleaving the hybrid polypeptide with the specific protease factor Xa.
[00621 Active fragments of the modified glycoprotein hormone molecules of the invention can also be
synthesized directly or obtained by chemical or mechanical disruption of larger glycoprotein hormone. An
active fragment is defined as an amino acid sequence of at least about 5 consecutive amino acids derived
from the naturally occurring amino acid sequence, which has the relevant activity, e.g., binding or
regulatory activity. The fragments, whether attached to other sequences or not, can also include
insertions, deletions, substitutions, or other selected modifications of particular regions or specific amino
acids residues, provided the activity of the peptide is not significantly altered or impaired compared to the
modified glycoprotein hormone. These modifications can provide for some additional property, such as
to remove/add amino acids capable of disulfide bonding, to increase its bio-longevity, etc. In any case,
the peptide must possess a bioactive property, such as binding activity, regulation of binding at the
binding domain, etc. Functional or active regions of the glycoprotein hormone may be identified by

mutagenesis of a specific region of the hormone, followed by expression and testing of the expressed
polypeptide. Such methods are readily apparent to a skilled practitioner in the art and can include site
specific mutagenesis of the nucleic acid encoding the receptor.
[0063] The present invention also encompasses fusion proteins and chimeric proteins comprising the
mutations described herein, including for instance, fusions to the FSH glycoprotein. Such a fusion
protein may be made by ligating the appropriate nucleic acid sequences encoding the desired amino acid
sequences to each other by methods known in the art, in the proper coding frame, and expressing the
fusion protein by any of the means described above. Alternatively, such a fusion protein may be made by
protein synthesis techniques, for example, using a peptide synthesizer. The single chain analogs and
chimeric proteins of the invention may incorporate a peptide linker between the alpha and beta subunits,
or between different portions of the chimeric protein.
Characterization of Glycoprotein Hormone Superagonists
100641 The effect of the modification or modifications to the wild-type glycoprotein hormones described
herein can be ascertained in any number of ways. For example, changes to second messenger systems
within cells transfected with a nucleic acid encoding the modified glycoprotein hormones can be
measured and compared to similar cells transfected with a nucleic acid encoding the wild-type
glycoprotein hormone. Alternatively, the activity of a modified glycoprotein hormone can be determined
from receptor binding assays, from thymidine uptake assays, from progesterone production assays, or
from T4 secretion assays. One skilled in the art can readily determine any appropriate assay to employ to
determine the activity of either a wild-type or a modified glycoprotein hormone.
100651 In one embodiment of the present invention, the modified glycoprotein hormone has a potency
which is increased over the potency of the wild type glycoprotein hormone. This increased potency can
be assessed by any of the techniques mentioned above or in any other appropriate assay as readily
determined by one skilled in the art. The increased potency does not have to be consistent from assay to
assay, or from cell line to cell line, as these of course, will vary.
[0066] In another embodiment of the present invention, the modified glycoprotein hormone has a
maximal efficacy which is increased over the maximal efficacy of the wild type glycoprotein hormone.
This increased maximal efficacy can be assessed by any of the techniques mentioned above or in any
other appropriate assay as readily determined by one skilled in the art. The increased maximal efficacy

does not have to be consistent from assay to assay, or from cell line to cell line, as these of course, will
vary.
100671    Other assays suitable for characterizing the analogs described herein are described in
PCT/US99/05908, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. For instance, various
immunoassays may be used including but not limited to competitive and non-competitive assay systems
using techniques such as radioimmunoassays, ELISA, Isoelectric focusing (IEF) assays, sandwich
immunoassays, immunoradiometric assays, gel diffusion precipitin reactions, immunodiffision assays, in
situ immunoassays, western blots, precipitation reactions, agglutination assays, complement fixation
assays, immunofluorescence assays, protein A assays, and immunoelectrophoresis assays, etc.
[00681 For example, when the beta subunit is that of FSH, improvements in the quality and quantity of
oocytes can be assessed by in vitro and in vivo assays. Superactive FSH can be used to improve the
quality and quantity of oocytes from animals, including but not limited to, human, mouse, rat, primate,
rabbit, pig, horse, sheep, and dog. Preferably, a superactive FSH is administered to a human or any
animal. It is common for improvements in oocyte quantity and quality to be determined using different
end points of the in vitro fertilization process such as oocyte formation, oocyte fertilization, and
blastocyst fonnation. In vito fertilization experiments may follow a "superovulation protocol" in which
subjects are treated with a superactive FSH analog according to the present invention, which leads to the
release and maturation of multiple oocytes . In in vitro fertilization experiments, FSH (superactive FSH
and recombinant wild type FSH) may be administered with hCG to trigger ovulation. A control animal
may be used which receives only hCG or pregnant mare serum gonadotropin (PMSG). The quality of
oocytes can be improved by increasing the fertilization rate of oocytes in an animal. The fertilization rate
of a superactive follicle stimulating hormone can be determined in vivo or in vitro by comparing the
fertilization rate achieved with a superactive FSH to the fertilization rate achieved with the same amount
of recombinant wild type FSH. A control animal may also be used that receives hCG. The rate of
fertilization can be measured by the percent of two-cell embryos which develop per total number of
oocytes. If fertilization takes place in vitro, two cell embryos can be counted in fertilization dishes. In
mice, two cell embryos develop approximately twenty-four hours after fertilization. The fertilization rate
varies based on the amount of superactive FSH administered. An animal may receive multiple does of
superactive FSH. The rate of fertilization increases by at least about 10 percent as a result of
administration of superactive FSH at the maximally effective dose for oocyte number. The rate of
fertilization may increase by at least about 20 percent, preferably at least 30%, 40%, 50%, 6 0%, 70%,

80%, 90%, or 100% as a result of administration of superactive FSH at the maximally effective dose for
oocyte number. Superactive follicle stimulating hormone can improve the quality of oocytes by
improving the blastocyst formation rate per fertilized oocyte. The rate of blastocyst formation can be
measured by determining the percentage of two-cell embryos which form blastocysts. The rate of
blastocyst formation increases whether the blastocyst forms in vivo or in vitro. The blastocyst formation
rate is dependent on the amount of superactive follicle stimulating hormone administered. The rate of
blastocyst formation increases at least about 10 percent as a result of administration of a superactive
follicle stimulating hormone at the maximally effective dose for oocyte number. The rate of blastocyst
formation may increase at least about 20 percent, preferably at least 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%,
90%, or 100% as a result of administration of superactive FSH at the maximally effective dose for oocyte
number.
[00691 Superactive follicle stimulating hormone can improve the quality of oocytes by increasing the
total number of embryos per fertilized oocyte. The increase in total number of embryos per fertilized
oocyte increases whether fertilization occurs in vivo or in vitro. The increase in total number of embryos
per fertilized oocyte is dependent on the amount of superactive follicle stimulating hormone administered.
The total number of embryos per fertilized oocyte increases at least about 10 percent as a result of
administration of a superactive follicle stimulating hormone at the maximally effective dose for oocyte
number. The total number of embryos per fertilized oocyte may increase by at least about 20 percent,
preferably at least 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or 100% as a result of administration of
superactive FSH at the maximally effective dose for oocyte number.
[0070] For example, when the beta subunit is that of CG, potent luteinizing hormone (LH)-like activites
can be assessed by in vitro and in vivo bioassays. Superactive CG induces ovulation, extends the life
span of corpus luteum, increases progesterone synthesis and promotes the formation of accessory corpora
lutea in certain species. Such actions result in more effective oocyte collection, increase in oocyte quality
in certain species, increase of pregnancy and pregnancy maintenance rates.
Glycoprotein hormone analogs with increased serum half-life
[0071] The modified glycoprotein hormone proteins of the invention may also be further modified such
that the plasma half-life is increased as compared to wild type counterparts. The modified glycoprotein
hormone proteins of the invention may further comprise a potential glycosylation site including sequences
comprising N-glycosylation and/or O-glycosylation sites. For example, placement of the peptide

NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) or VNVTINVT (SEQ ID NO: 20) in the alpha subunit provides for potential
glycosylation site of the alpha subunit. The peptides of SEQ ID NO: 20 or SEQ ID NO: I may be placed
in the human wild type sequences between D3 and Q5. The peptides of SEQ ID NO: 20 or SEQ ID NO:
 I may be placed in the bovine, equine, porcine and ovine wild type sequences between F6 and T7. The
inserted peptide may further comprise an additional threonine residue at the amino terminus. Further
peptides to insert in order to alter glycosylation include NV, INV, and TNV peptides, as well as
TNVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 12). For example, a modified alpha subunit of glycohormone may include an
insert of NV between F6 and T7 plus an insert of INV between T7 and T8. Increased half-life may also
be provided by pegylation or conjugation of other appropriate chemical groups or by constructing fusion
proteins having increased half life or any other method. Such methods are known in the art, for instance
as described in U.S. Patent 5,612,034, U.S. Patent 6,225,449, and U.S. Patent 6,555,660, each of which is
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
100721 Half-life may also be increased by increasing the number of negatively charged residues within
the molecule, for instance, the number of glutamate and/or aspartate residues. Such alteration may be
accomplished by site directed mutagenesis. Such alteration may also be achieved via an insertion of an
amino acid sequence containing one or more negatively charged residues into the modified glycoprotein
hormone proteins.
100731 The half-life of a protein is a measurement of protein stability and indicates the time necessary for
a one-half reduction in the concentration of the protein. The serum half-life of the modified glycoprotein
hormone proteins described herein may be determined by any method suitable for measuring hormone
levels in samples from a subject over time, for example but not limited to, immunoassays using antibodies
to measure levels in serum samples taken over a period of time after administration of the modified
glycoprotein hormone proteins, or by detection of labeled hormone molecules, i.e., radiolabeled
molecules, in samples taken from a subject after administration of the labeled glycoprotein hormones.
Methods of Treatment
10074] The modified glycoprotein hormone proteins of the present invention may be used to treat any
condition associated with glycoprotein hormone activity. The modified glycoprotein hormone proteins of
the present invention may be used to treat a subject in need thereof. A subject may be an animal, such as
a mammal, a reptile, a fish, a bird and an amphibiab. The subject may be a mammal, such as a human,
cow, sheep, pig or horse. An animal includes livestock and domesticated pets, such as canines and

felines. The subject may be a human patient or an animal in need of improved glycoprotein hormone
activity. Conditions associated with glycoprotein hormone activity are ones that are either completely or
partially caused by altered glycoprotein hormone responsiveness, or ones that benefit from the
administration of glycoprotein hormone. For instance, such conditions include, but are not limited to
ovulatory dysfunction, luteal phase defects, unexplained infertility, male factor infertility, time-limited
conception, low FSH receptor expression, low FSH receptor sensitivity, FSH receptor binding
deficiencies, FSH receptor coupling deficiencies, low testosterone production, male pattern baldness, and
pituitary failure or injury.
100751 For example, the quantity and quality of oocytes can be improved by administering a superactive
FSH analog as described herein to an animal. For example, Applicants have surprisingly found that by
administering a superactive FSH containing a modified alpha-subunit, a dramatic increase in the quantity
and quality of oocytes is obtained. The effects of a superactive FSH on oocyte quantity and quality may
be further enhanced by increasing the FSH serum half-life of the superactive FSH. The FSH serum half
life can be increased by further modifying the superactive FSH. Further modifications, including but not
limited to those previously described, can be used to increase FSH serum half-life.
100761 The modified FSH, CG, LH, or TSH glycoprotein hormone proteins of the present invention may
also be used in therapeutic regimens of assisted reproduction in either a male or female subject
comprising administering an assisting amount of the modified glycoprotein hormone proteins to the
subject. In such methods, the analogs may be administered alone or in combination with other
therapeutics, for instance, including but not limited to Clomiphene citrate and GnRH (gonotropin
releasing hormone). The modified glycoprotein hormone proteins of the present invention may be
administered as a combination of one or more glycoproteins. For example, a modified alpha subunit may
be combined with a FSH beta subunit, a CG beta subunit, a TSH beta subunit, and/or a LH beta subunit,
together or separately, and the modified glycoproteins are then administered to a subject. For example, in
a subject with isolated gonadotropin deficiency (IGD), modified FSH, CG, TSH, and LH may be
administered to the subject to restore normal gonadal function. It is widely known in the art that
glycoprotein hormones such as FSH, CG, TSH, LH are integral in female reproductive physiology, and
these glycoprotein hormones may be administered to a subject to overcome a number of reproductive
disorders and thereby assist reproduction.
100771 Single and multiple injection dosing regimens are tested for the modified equine CG
glycoprotein. For superstimulation using eCG analog in horses, cows, or pigs, single or 2:1 split eCCG

analog injection is used. Dose ranging studies for eCG analog include a single im. injection of 30, 45, 60,
75, 90, 105 and 120 meg. Optimized dose are tested in 2:1 ratio and the optional second split dose will
coincide with PGF2alpha treatment on Day 6 or another date. The treatment with the modified eCG
produces superovalation in horses, cows, and pigs.
[00781 A skilled practitioner in the art can readily determine the effective amount of the glycoprotein
hormone to administer and will depend on factors such as weight, size, the severity of the specific
condition, and the type of subject itself. The therapeutically effective amount can readily be determined
by routine optimization procedures. The present invention provides glycoprotein honnones with
increased potency relative to the wild-type glycoprotein hormone. These modified glycoprotein hormones
will allow a skilled practitioner to administer a lower dose of a modified glycoprotein hormone relative to
the wild-type glycoprotein hormones to achieve a similar therapeutic effect, or alternatively, administer a
dose of the modified glycoprotein hormone similar to the dose of the wild-type glycoprotein hormone to
achieve an increased therapeutic effect.
[00791 Depending on whether the glycoprotein hormone is administered orally, parenterally, or
otherwise, the administration of the prostaglandin can be in the form of solid, semi-solid, or liquid dosage
forms, such as, for example, tablets, pills, capsules, powders, liquids, creams, and suspensions, or the like,
preferably in unit dosage form suitable for delivery of a precise dosage. The glycoprotein hormone may
include an effective amount of the selected glycoprotein hormone in combination with a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier and, in addition, may include other medicinal agents, pharmaceutical agents, carriers,
adjuvants, diluents, etc. By "pharmaceutically acceptable" is meant a material that is not biologically or
otherwise undesirable, i.e., the material may be administered to an individual along with the selected
glycoprotein hormone without causing unacceptable biological effects or interacting in an unacceptable
manner with the glycoprotein hormone. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known, or
will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, latest
edition (Mack Publishing).
[0100] The following examples are provided to describe and illustrate the present invention. As such,
they should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention. Those in the art will well appreciate that
many other embodiments also fall within the scope of the invention, as it is described hereinabove and in
the claims.
EXAMPLES

Design of alpha subunit analogs
[01011 A human FSH superagonist glycoprotein with modifications to the a-subunit at
Q13R+E4R+P6R+Q20R (human 4R) with a wild-type p-subunit demonstrated significant binding
superiority over their wild-type counterparts.
101021 Table I shows a comparison of human alpha wild-type (WT) and selected hFSH superagonists
primary amino acid structure. N-terminal portions of human alpha wild-type (amino acid residues 1-28 of
92 total residues) and mutated forms are shown. Location of 4 superagonist substitutions to arginine (R)
is in the shaded area. Selected 4 different inserts introducing one or two additional N-linked carbohydrate
chains are marked between amino acid D3 and Q5 of the wild-type sequence.
[0103] Table 1.
             WT            APD                  V    QDCPEC.T QFNPF FSQPGAP I Loc
        TR4401(4R)         APD                  V    QDCPE TL              N FF          PGAP I LQ
    TR44701(4R+Ins1)       A PD                - ' QDC PE                     - F1F0S,3AP"
                                                                           N "LQ         PGAPILOC.
                                            f~j                             ~     f
    TR44601 (4R+Ins2)      APD                 T ODCPE TL                       F 45 PGAPILQ(
    TR44201(4R+ns3)        APO                      IQDCPENTL                    *&F P AP LO<
    TR44301(4R+ns4)        APDV                    TQDCPE                  NTLF #          G API LQC
101041 The segments in Table I are listed as the following: SEQ ID NO: 43: hFSH WT; SEQ ID NO: 33,
hFSH alpha (4R); SEQ ID NO: 34, hFSH alpha (4R+lnsl); SEQ ID NO: 35, hFSH alpha (4R+Ins2); SEQ
ID NO: 36, hFSH alpha (4R+Ins3); SEQ ID NO: 37, hFSH alpha (4R+Ins4).
101051 The bovine FSH (bFSH) substitutions in some embodiments are highly analogous to the residues
previously mutagenized in the human FSH alpha subunit and include combination of 5 mutations called
"5R"(K15R+KI7R+E18R+K20R+K24R). E.g. SEQ ID NO: 7. To increase the probability that
introduced glycosylation recognition sequences (NXT or NXS) leads to attachment of N-linked
carbohydrate chain, 18 different bovine alpha subunit constructs were established and cloned into
previously developed expression vectors. 12 constructs contained N-terminal extension peptide sequences
ANITV, ANTTA, ANTSA, ANITVNITV, ANTSANTTA and ANTSANTSA.
[0106] Table 2 shows a comprison of bovine alpha wild-type (WT) and selected bFSH superagonists
primary amino acid structures. N-terminal portions of bovine alpha wild-type (amino acid residues 1-32
of 96 total residues) and mutant bovine alpha are shown. Location of 5 superagonist substitutions to

arginine (R) or lysine (K) are marked in the shaded area between amino acids C14 and P25, coded as SR
of 4R+IK. Selected 4 different inserts introducing one or two additional N-linked carbohydrate chains
are marked in between amino acid F6 and T8 of the wild-type sequence.
[0107] The segments in Table 2 are listed as the following: SEQ ID NO: 44, WT bFSH; SEQ ID NO: 23,
bFSH alpha (5R); SEQ ID NO: 24, bFSH alpha (4R+IK); SEQ ID NO: 25, bFSH alpha (5R+lnsl); SEQ
ID NO: 26, bFSH alpha (5R+Ins2); SEQ ID NO: 27, bFSH alpha (SR+Ins3); SEQ ID NO: 28, bFSH
alpha (5R+Ins4); SEQ ID NO: 29, bFSH alpha (4R+IK+lnsI); SEQ ID NO: 30, bFSH alpha
(4R+IK+ns2); SEQ ID NO: 31, bFSH alpha (4R+IK+Ins3); SEQ ID NO: 32, bFSH alpha
(4R+1K+Ins4).
[01081 Table 2
                        F- P    GEF                T MOQGC,- P       r FF-E.
                                                                        .E       tRY$t
                                                                                    F- V      _PD____
                              tiPEt o,
                         emoiet              E1R, TM0k               4R E     S Na NO: 9;ASQ ID NO
                         3n 0 ay t e o   ap    s        havGC5E E LH, K2R an PeeAP          4         Ylso
  T 7    N Kb  _m       T     DT (     S N          3 39and c P 4E CCR L). ,N R 7
           4~.1SI          'V~5 F~F 'RVY~\~)3P                               "M
                            PR1C~~
                        E E'C   4 E I NV           T MOC              (4P~L RKWR VF     51PtA
 geeae . e 2SEQ ID         7 741;NO:SQITO: 42)      Th M uta  PF1Pte    lph suui als conai3AP  iner of
101091 Equine glycoprotein alpha subunits including mutations were also produced and some
embodiments include substitution of KISR, EISR, K2OR, and K24R. E.g. SEQ ID NO: 9; SEQ ID NO:
38-40. In addition, equine glycoprotein alpha subunits having KI5R, EISH, K20R, and K24R were also
generated (e.g. SEQ ID NO: 41; SEQ ID NO: 42). These mutated alpha subunit also contain insert of
NVTINT between F6 and T7 of the subunit (e.g. SEQ ID) NO: 9,40, and 42) or NV insert between F6 and
T7 plus]NV between T7 and TS (e.g. SEQ ID NO: 38, 39, and 41).
101101 Transient transfection of bFSH analogs using polyethylenimine (PEI) resulted in 3.7-4.5 fold
increase in bFSH analog expression in comparison to lipofectamine-based methods (data not shown).
Expression levels of various FSH analogs based on heterodimer-specific ELISA indicated no major loss
of FSH dimer formation and do not support previous claims that a single chain construct was necessary to
achieve high level expression.

101111 Selection of transiently expressed bFSH analogs included cAMP-based in vitro bioassay and PK
screening assays (see Figures I and 2). There was a significant 3-4 fold increase in potency of bFSH with
5R substitutions in comparison to porcine FSH (pFSH-Folltropin@-V) and bFSH controls (Figure IA).
Remarkably, in contrast to many previous studies (Figure IB), (Heikopp, Eur. J. Biochem 261: 81-84,
 1999; Trousdale, Fertil. Steril. 91: 265-270, 2009) novel neoglycosylation inserts have been found not to
decrease in vitro bioactivity of bovine FSH 5R analog (Figure IC). Identical neoglycosylation sites added
at the N-terminus reduced in vitro bioactivity of bFSH, similar to the attenuating effect of
neoglycosylation on the intrinsic activity of erythropoietin (Elliott, Exp. Hematol. 32: 1146-1155, 2004;
Elliott, Nat. Biotechnol. 21: 4144-421, 2003; Sinclair, J. Pharm. Sci. 94: 1626-1635, 2005) and the effect
of many other prolongations of half-life approaches including site-directed pegylation (Fishbum, J.
Pharm. Sci. 97: 4167-4183, 2008; Uchiyama, Vet. J. 184: 208-211, 2010). Two days PK screening study
in mice indicated that all neo-glycosylated bovine FSH "5R' analogs had increased terminal half life in
comparison to bFSH-WT and Folltropin@-V (Figure 2A and 2B). The data from the PK screening assay
indicated greatly prolonged plasma half-life due to glycosylation at one or two introduced
neoglycosylation sites (Insert 1 and 2) in comparison to bFSH-WT, Folltropin@-V and TR4401 controls.
Observed levels were comparable with bFSH-single chain molecule with 29 amino acid linker and 4-5 0
linked carbohydrate chains. Two initially tested analogs made as a combined superagonist and
neoglycosylation inserts, named "Insert 1 and 2" had in vitro bioactivity comparable to SR superagonist
control alone (Figure I C) and yet still prolonged half life in mice (Figure 2B). Such long acting analogs
without reduction of superagonist activity are unprecedented and translates to expected impressive
performance in vivo in cows.
101121 Several hundreds of milligrams of various human FSH and TSH were produced recombinantly
(rFSH or rTSH) with CHO cells using flasks, shakers, roller bottles and bioreactors. During initial work a
dicistronic retroviral vector system was optimized for high level expression of FSH and TSH analogs in
CHO-DG44 cells. Human rFSH preparation was tested. A single 60 jg dose of rFSH induced follicle
development resulting in high number of good quality embryos matching previously optimized eight
injections of Folltropin@-V (300 mg) administered twice daily over 4 days further supporting its unique
properties such as delayed absorption after I.M. injection, as well as enhanced FSH receptor residency
time. See Figures 3 and 5-8. The rFSH superagonist at a 10 pg dose showed exceptional ability to recruit
and maintain over 12 days enhanced pool of growing follicles, in particular follicles in 3-5 mm size range,
which are also known in humans to have low FSH receptor number (data not shown). This unexpected
enhancement and support of small follicles by the rFSH, not observed with previously optimized dosing

of control Folltropin@-V, provides a new way to recruit FSH responsive follicles at random stages of the
cycle and enhance potential for successful IVF and superovulation in a number of poor responders caused
by decreased FSH receptor number or fiction (Perez Mayorga, J. Clin. Endocrinology 152: 3268-3369,
2000; Levallet, Arch. Med. Red. 30: 486-494, 1999; Rannikko, Mol. Hum. Reprod. 8: 311-317,2002;
Cai, Feril. Steril. 87: 1350-1356, 2007). However, because of the 40 amino acid difference between
bovine FSH and human FSH based-alpha subunit with 4 arginine substitutions there were observed some
carryover effects from previous treatments with the rFSH in the same cows, which was in agreement with
previous data study showing immunogenic properties of human FSH in rabbits and Rhesus monkeys (Cai,
Int. J. Toxicol. 30: 153-161, 2011; De Castro, Theriogenology 72: 655-662, 2009).
[01131 The introduction of arginine (R) or lysine (K) residues into a selected modification permissive
area of the common alpha-subunit has been previously shown to modulate activity of glycoprotein
hormones during evolution (Szkudlinski, Nat. Biotechnol. 14: 1257-1263, 1996; Szkudlinski, Physiol.
Rev. 82: 473-502, 2002) and play an important role in the electrostatic interaction with the negatively
charged cluster located in the hinge region of glycoprotein hormone receptors (Mueller, Trends
Endocrinol. Metab. 21: 111-122, 2010; Mueller, J. Biol. Chem. 284: 16317-16324, 2009; Mueller,
Endocrinol. 152: 3268-3278, 2011). Specific bFSH superagonist development includes minimal
substitutions to 4-5 R and/or K to produce a more potent and efficacious molecule with possible delayed
absorption to increase duration of action as shown in the data herein and other studies for hFSH and other
glycoprotein hormone analogs (Szkudlinski, Physiol. Rev. 82: 473-502, 2002). The minimal length amino
acid inserts containing one or two carbohydrate neoglycosylation sites to increase halflife to produce a
single injection analog without reducing increased superagonist potency/efficacy has also been
investigated (see Figure 4). For further analysis, 8 constructs containing peptide inserts NVTINV,
NVTINVT, NV and NVT located between amino acid 6 and 8 of the wild-type sequence can be used. As
shown in the data herein and in contrast to previous neoglycosylation and pegylation studies (Trousdale,
Feril. Steril. 91: 265-270, 2009; Uchiyama, Vet J. 184: 208-211, 2010; Perlman, J. Clin. Endocrinol.
Metab. 88: 3227-3235, 2003) it is possible to engineer minimal length amino acid insert containing
complex carbohydrate to increase half-life without reducing increased superagonist potency/efficacy.
These novel analogs can be expressed by transient transfection in CHO-KI cells using the optimized high
expression system method using PEI and roller bottles.
[0114] Purification of selected 4-6 analogs expressed by transient transfection may be performed using a
capture step using SP Sepharose column, followed by selecting analogs with Mono Q ion exchange

chromatography before final polishing using gel filtration. The purity of bFSH analogs can be greater than
98%. Cumulative recovery may reach 50% with a total 50-fold purification. All analogs may be
characterized in vitro by ELISA immunoassay, robust in vitro cAMP bioassay using CHO-FSH4R cell
line, SDS-PAGE electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing (IEF) gel analysis. Selected purified analogs
may also be analyzed by rigorous quantification by reverse phase HPLC, carbohydrate compositional
analysis and assessments of stability and aggregation states.
[0115] Further experiments proudeed bovine FSH analog TR55601 (alpha subunit: SEQ ID NO: 7),
which includes substitutions to arginine (R) in 15K, 17K, 18K, 20K, and 24K of the alpha subunit as well
as an NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) insert between 6F and 7T of the alpha subunit. Several lots of TR55601
were generated and tested using IEF and Western blot analsis. Figures 3A -D show examplary results of
the analysis. Figures 3A-3D demonstrate, in part, that TR55601/Lot 4 and Lot 5 display optimal
distribution and verify the effecitiveness of the mutations in this Lot. Lots 4 and 5 and Lots having
similar screening results were used in animal treatments. For example, the lEF-Western Blot analysis
illustrate the optimized acidic isoforms of TR56001 of Lot 4 and Lot 5 in Figures 3A-C. On the other
hand, as shown in Figures 3A and 3C, Lot 3 was not fully verified and was not used in animal treatments.
The bFSH analogs and in particular the samples of TR55601 were also studied with PK screening assays
in mice. Mice were subcutaneously injected with selected bFSH samples and bood samples were taken at
24, 32, and 48 hours after injections. Plasmas were isolated and anlyzed with bFSH ELISA (Endocrine
Technologies, Inc.). The prolonged half life of Lot 4 of the TR55601 samples was confirmed with the PK
screening assays. Data not shown.
[0116] Full pharmacokinetic profile of selected candidate analogs may be performed in by se
administration of a single dose of 10 gg per rat and 10 different blood collections times (1, 5, 15, 30 min
and 1, 2, 6, 24 and 48h) spanning both distribution and elimination phase. Bovine FSH plasma levels may
be quantified in plasma using bFSH-ELISA. Full PK analysis may be performed.
[0117] Analogs were selected for constructing bicistronic expression vectors, and selection and
amplification of analog expression in CHO-DG44 cells in preparation for large-scale production,
purification and superovulation studies in cattle. The CHO-DHFR(-) DG44 cells were co-transfected with
the expression vectors and submitted to gene amplification in culture medium containing stepwise
increments of methotrexate (MTX). Cells were qualified for the next amplification step after regaining
their polygonal morphology (2-3 weeks). Clones that present a secretion level > 2 pg/cell/day may be

subjected to a second treatment, directed to amplify the GS marker gene (MSX). An additional 2-5 fold
increase may be obtained, reaching a secretion level up to 10 pg/cell/day.
Preparation and experimentation with alpha subunit analogs
101181 Although the rFSH induced a superovulatory response following a single intramuscular (IM.)
injection and 60 gg would appear to be very close to the optimal dose, there was a significant decrease in
superovulatory response when cows were exposed to the rFSH for three times or more. Therefore,
experiments were designed to test a new rFSH formulation called TR 55601 rFSH, which includes an
alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 7) having a "5R" substitution and ant insert of NVTINT between F6 and T7.
The objective was to first determine the effect of a single or split dose treatment with rFSH to induce a
superovulatory response in beef cows and then to further evaluate the superovulatory response of the
single injection of rFSH and to determine if the superovulatory response remained high when cows were
exposed to rFSH two or three times.
101191 The TR55601 FSH samples were analyzed in vivo in rats with the classic Steelman-Pohley FSH
bioassay (Steelman et al, Endocrinol. 53: 604-616, 1953). Female Sprague-Dawley rats (200-220g) were
injected with one single dose of test article (e.g. bFSH) or vehicle, supplemented with 40 IU of hCG.
Ovarian weights were measured 72 hours after dosing. See Figure 4. Each group is treated with hCG to
provide a baseline. TR55601 bFSH, at all concentrations, signficantly increases ovarian weight.
101201   Figure 5 shows a follicular wave synchronizing protocol for superovulation, induction of
ovulation and fixed-time artificial insemination, wherein the 8 injections of Folltropin-VR (Bioniche) are
replaced with a single or double injection of TR55601. Treatment included insertion of progesterone (P4)
releasing intravaginal device and administration of benzoate estradiol (BE) on Day 0. Superovulatory
treatments were initiated on Day 4 with TR55601 given as a single or double injection. Second split-dose
injection was coinciding with PGF, treatments on Day 6. Progesterone device was removed with the last
FSH injection on Day 7. On day 8 donors were receiving porcine LH and were inseminated without estrus
detection 12 and 24h later, or once on Day 8 (16h after pLH). Ova/embryos were collected non
surgically on Day 15 (2, 3). Folltropin-V* was used as a control; total 300 mg* was given in 8
intramuscular (IM) injections twice daily over 4 days (mg* - based on highly impure NIH-FSH-PI
Reference Standard).
101211 In particular, 30 nonlactating Red Angus cows were stratified and blocked based on their
previous history of embryo production and randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups. Cows in

the Control group (n=10) received 300 mg Folltropin-V, IM. in a twice daily decreasing dose protocol
administered over a 4-day period. Specifically: Day 4,3.0 mL (am and pm); Day 5, 2.5 mL (am and pm);
Day 6, 1.5 mL (am and pm) and Day 7, 0.5 mL (am and pm). Cows in the rFSH 60pg treatment group
received a single IM. injection of 60 jg rFSH and cows in the rFSH 4 0 - 2 0pg treatment group received an
IM. injection of 40 Rg rFSH on Day 4, followed by another I.M. injection of 20 pg rFSH on Day 6.
[01221 Then, 25 out of the 30 cows were superstimulated again with Folltropin-V (Control) or a single
injection of 60 gg of rFSH. Animals in the Control group (n= 10) remained in the Control group, and 8 out
 10 cows in the rFSH 60 pg in Experiment I were treated again by a single IM. injection of rFSH.
Furthermore, 7 out of 10 cows previously treated with the split-single injection of rFSH were treated with
a single IM. injection of rFSH. The interval between the embryo collections was 29 days.
101231 24 of the 25 cows used in the second experiment were superstimulated again with Folltropin-V
(Control) or a single injection of 60 gg of rFSH. Again, Control cows remained in the Control group and
rFSH cows remained in the rFSH group. The interval between embryo collections is 30 days.
101241 On Day 0 (beginning of experiment), all animals received 5 mg estradiol-17p plus 50 mg
progesterone and an intravaginal device impregnated with progesterone (Cue-Mate, Bioniche Animal
Health). On Day 4 (expected day of follicle wave emergence), all cows were superstimulated according to
the groups described above. The 60 gg doses for the single IM. injection rFSH constituted 7.5 mL and
Folltropin-V was administered in 8 IM. injections in a decreasing dose protocoL All animals received
500 pg of cloprostenol IM. (Cyclase, Syntex, Argentina) on Day 6 in the morning and in the evening.
Cue-mates were removed in the evening of Day 6. In the morning of Day 8, cows received 100 ag of
gonadorelin (Gonasyn, Syntex Argentina) and inseminated 12 and 24 hours later. All cows were
inseminated with frozen semen from the same bull. Ova/embryos were collected non-surgically on Day
 15 and evaluated following JETS recommendations.
[0125] All cows were examined ultrasonically on Days 0, 4, 6 and 8 for the presence of a CL and follicle
size and number and to determine follicle growth profiles. Ovulatory response was confirmed by counting
the number of CL and follicles >10 mm in diameter by ultrasonography and rectal palpation on Day 15.
101261 In each experiment, data points were first evaluated for normality and homogeneity of variance.
Because variances differed among groups, data were transformed by square root and analyzed by one
way ANOVA. Analysis of the overall response after the three experiments are concluded will be done by
two-way ANOVA to detect the effect of experiment number and treatment and their interaction. Means

were compared by the protected LSD test. Follicle data were analyzed by the MIXED procedure to detect
the effect of treatment, day and their interaction on follicle numbers and growth profiles. All analyses
were done using the Infostat Analytical Software (Universidad Nacional de Cordoba, Argentina).
[0127] Superovulatory response and ova/embryo data are summarized in Table 3. Although the mean
number of CL and cows with S2 CL on the day of ova/embryo collection did not differ among groups, the
split-injection of rFSH resulted in a higher (P<0.05) number of unovulated follicles. The mean number of
total ova/embryos, fertilized ova and transferable embryos (Grades 1, 2 & 3) also did not differ.
[01281 Table 3 shows superovulation with single or split-single doses of TR55601 (rFSH).
[0129] Table 3: Mean (+SEM) number of corpora lutea (CL), follicles >10mm in diameter, number of
cows with < 2 CL at the time of ova/embryo collection, number of ova/embryos, fertilized ova and grades
 1, 2, and 3 embryos (transferable embryos) in beef cows treated with a single (60yg) or split-single (40
20pg) I.M. injections of rFSH (TR5560 1) or 300 mg Folltropin-V* (Control) given in twice daily IM
injections over 4 days.
    Tables 41and 5Th m          b o           lm                  c           2CLn t                t   0
      f iM__       MI1t2.U32+6Iblef                              jal i7225    u utl
                                                                            , +*;            se+ 5      0
          ifiC,1     ~th 1,5U iI               0     1Wt9         r +AI&1 4     7.4zt     Ts! 17      0
101301 The superovulatory response and ova/embryo data for the second dosing are summarized in
Tables 4 and 5. The meannumber of CL, follicles >10 am and cows with!S2 CL on the day of
ova/embryo collection did not differ between groups. The mean number of total ova/embryos, fertilized
ova and transferable embryos (Grades 1, 2 and 3) also did not differ between groups.
[01311 Tables 4 and 5 show superovulation with single dose of TR55601 (rFSH).

101321 Table 4. Mean (+ SEM) number of CL, follicles >10 mm in diameter and number of cows with
52 CL at the time of ova/embryo collection. Cows were treated with a single (60 pg) IM. injection of
rFSH or 300 mg Folltropin-V (Control) given in twice daily I.M. injections over 4 d.
                rnmnmeat               N             CL         _________                  .S2CL onDay 15
                     WH6g10                           1
                                                 '143 24                33 t -3t
101331 Table 5. Mean (+ SEM) number of ova/embryos, fertilized ova and grades 1, 2, and 3 embryos
(transferable embryos) in beef cows treated with a single (60pg) IM. injection of rFSH (TR55601) or
300mg Folltropin-V' (Control) given in twice daily IM injections over 4 days.
                                                                                                     C owi
                                                                                        Grades       with
                                    TOWa                                  Grades        1, ! &3       "1"
                                     0va/    Frtilized Grade I              I&Z        embryos      tansJ
        Treatment           N     embryos        ova      embryos         embryos   transferable ) emb,
           Control          10    1t9 25 1W5 2.2 3.2t0.8                  4.71.1       4.9 -- 1.       2
        rFSH 6      g       14    13A e 3.3  iL6     3.0 3.5    1.0       5.1   1.5    6.1a18          4
          p-vaitW                  0.9263      0.795S      0.8903          0.9608       0.9992      0.6326
101341 For the final dosing experiment, only follicle data are available at this time. There was no
significant difference in follicle growth profiles and the numbers of follicles on the day before
insemination between the rFSH and Folltropin-V groups. Ovulation and ova/embryo data will be
available shortly and will be presented separately for Experiment 3 and then combined with Experiments
 I and 2. Follicle data for Experiment 3 are available and have been combined with that of experiments I
and 2 and are presented in Table 6.

101351 Table 6 shows three superovulations with TR55601 (rFSH) at 30 day intervals.
[0136] Table 6. Mean (+SEM) number of CL, follicles >10mm in diameter, number of cows with < 2
CL at the time of ova/embryo collection, number of ova/embryos, fertilized ova and grades 1, 2, and 3
embryos transferablee embryos) in beef cows treated with a single (60pg) or split-single (40- 2 0g) IM.
injections of rFSH (TR55601) or 300 mg Folltropin-V* (Control) given twice daily IM injections over 4
days. Cows were treated three consecutive times at -30 day intervals (3 experiments combined).
    Expe___                        a         a 06        Tom y    ow                   _anfe           est_
                                     213                                                             1
[0137] The follicle characteristics from the beginning of treatment until just before artificial insemination
are shown in Table 7 and Figures 6-9.
                                          Is14  2        O$    12.,4_           17 4+               &A~hsZ 1,9
[0138] Tables 7 shows follicle numbers in superovulation model in nonlactating cows. Follicle
         _ _ _.
             _  _ _                      ......         ..
                                               .............
development (meanSEM) was detected by ultrasonography of beef cows treated with 60 pg of rFSH
given by single i.m. injection or 300mg Folltropin@)-V given twice daily i.m. injections over 4 days,
[0139] Table 7.

101401 The numbers of follicles 3 to 5 mm in diameter did not differ among treatment groups (Figure 6).
Neither did the numbers of follicles 6 to 8 mm in diameter (Figure 7), follicles >9 mm (Figure 8) or the
mean follicle diameter over the days of treatment differ (Figure 9).
[0141] Results obtained in this series of experiments can be interpreted to suggest that the rFSH product
induces a superovulatory response in beef cows that is not different from that of Folltropin-V. There is
also no evidence of a decrease in superovulatory response as compared with Folltropin-V when cows are
treated three times consecutively. The superovulatory response in the final dosing would appear to be
similar to the first two and this will be confirmed following ova/embryo collection. There is concern
about the larger number of unovulated (>10 mm) follicles in cows treated with rFSH (mainly due to high
number of unovulated follicles in two cows) that needs to be investigated further. More studies are also
required to determine the optimal dosage of rFSH to superovulate beef and dairy cows and to determine
the long term effects of treating consecutively with rFSH more than three times.
Specificity of Insert for Improved Half-Life
101421 To determine if the observed improved half-life is specific to the sequence of the insert of SEQ
ID NO: 1, the human alpha subunit with the insert was modified to remove the amino terminal valine.
The two were then tested for their ability to produce cAMP, along with the analog that lacks the insert.
The studies showed that the insert is sequence specific and confers superior binding and half-life on the
alpha subunit (see Figure 9). The production conditions were then examined in various growth conditions
to optimize for maximal production (see Table 8).
101431 Table 8 shows optimization of production of the human alpha subunit.

                              l7s~      27001                                   201242-M  M        2 M3
                   .-.       ua                                 snz            -f -4- ---
                                                                                        7 Aam so(M     esi~
                                           uma           anna                                       mutt;
                                                     ism
                                                 g~~wam       1Iamm
                                        11n
                                        amn            no     1"53a :
[0144] The insert was then examined along with the bovine counterpart and it is confirmed that the
increased half-life is specific to the sequence of the insert (see Figure 11).

                                                   35
What is Claimed:
          Claim 1: A modified glycoprotein hormone comprising an amino acid sequence with at least one
conservative basic amino acid substitution at Q13, E14, P16 and Q20 and an insert of VNVTINVT (SEQ
ID NO: 20) between D3 and Q5 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein hormone.
          Claim 2: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, comprising at least two basic amino
acid substitutions at Q13, P16 and Q20.
          Claim 3: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, comprising three basic amino acid
substitutions at Q13, P16 and Q20.
          Claim 4: The modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims I to 3, further comprising a basic
amino acid substitution at E14.
          Claim 5: The modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims I to 4, wherein the basic amino
acid is arginine.
          Claim 6: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, wherein the alpha subunit comprises an
amino acid sequence with at least 85% identity to SEQ ID NO: 11.
          Claim 7: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, further comprising the beta subunit of
leutenizing hormone (LH).
          Claim 8: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, further comprising the beta subunit of
chorionic gonadotropin (CG).
          Claim 9: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, further comprising the beta subunit of
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).
          Claim 10: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, further comprising the beta subunit of
thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).
          Claim 11: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 1, wherein the alpha subunit is derived
from a human alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 6).

                                                   36
         Claim 12: A method for stimulating a glycoprotein receptor in an animal, comprising
administering the modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 1 to 11 to an animal.
         Claim 13: A method for stimulating ovulation in an animal, comprising administering the
modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 1 to 11 to the animal.
         Claim 14: The method of any of claims 12 to 13, wherein the animal is a human.
         Claim 15: A modified glycoprotein hormone comprising an amino acid sequence with at least
one conservative basic amino acid substitution at K15, K17, K20 and K24 and an insert of NVTINV
(SEQ ID NO: 1) between F6 and T7 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein hormone.
         Claim 16: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, comprising at least two basic amino
acid substitutions at K15, K17, K20 and K24.
         Claim 17: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, comprising at least three basic amino
acid substitutions at K15, K17, K20 and K24.
         Claim 18: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, comprising four basic amino acid
substitutions at K15, K17, K20 and K24.
         Claim 19: The modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 15 to 18, further comprising a
basic amino acid substitution at E18.
         Claim 20: The modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 15 to 19, wherein the basic
amino acid is arginine.
         Claim 21: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, wherein the alpha subunit comprises
an amino acid sequence with at least 85% identity to SEQ ID NO: 7.
         Claim 22: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, further comprising the beta subunit
of leutenizing hormone (LH).
         Claim 23: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, further comprising the beta subunit
of chorionic gonadotropin (CG).

                                                   37
         Claim 24: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, further comprising the beta subunit
of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).
         Claim 25: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, further comprising the beta subunit
of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).
         Claim 26: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, wherein the alpha subunit is derived
from a bovine alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 2).
         Claim 27: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, wherein the alpha subunit is derived
from a porcine alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 5).
         Claim 28: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 15, wherein the alpha subunit is derived
from an ovine alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 3).
         Claim 29: A method for stimulating a glycoprotein receptor in an animal, comprising
administering the modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 15 to 28 to an animal.
         Claim 30: A method for stimulating ovulation in an animal, comprising administering the
modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 15 to 28 to the animal.
         Claim 31: The method of any of claims 29 to 30, wherein the animal is a cow, sheep, or pig.
         Claim 32: A modified glycoprotein hormone comprising an amino acid sequence with at least
one conservative basic amino acid substitution at K15, E18, K20 and K24 and an insert of NVTINV
(SEQ ID NO: 1) between F6 and T7 or alternatively an insert of NV between F6 and T7 plus an insert of
INV between T7 and T8 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein hormone.
         Claim 33: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, wherein the amino acid sequence
includes an insert of NVTINV (SEQ ID NO: 1) between F6 and T7 of the alpha subunit of a glycoprotein
hormone.
         Claim 34: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, wherein the amino acid sequence
includes an insert of NV between F6 and T7 plus an insert of INV between T7 and T8 of a glycoprotein
hormone.

                                                   38
         Claim 35: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, comprising at least two basic amino
acid substitutions at K15, E18, K20 and K24.
         Claim 36: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, comprising at least three basic amino
acid substitutions at K15, E18, K20 and K24.
         Claim 37: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, comprising four basic amino acid
substitutions at K15, E18, K20 and K24.
         Claim 38: The modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 32 to 37, wherein the basic
amino acid is arginine or histidine.
         Claim 39: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 38, wherein the basic amino acid is
arginine.
         Claim 40: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, wherein the alpha subunit comprises
an amino acid sequence with at least 85% identity to SEQ ID NO: 4.
         Claim 41: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, further comprising the beta subunit
of leutenizing hormone (LH).
         Claim 42: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, further comprising the beta subunit
of chorionic gonadotropin (CG).
         Claim 43: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, further comprising the beta subunit
of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).
         Claim 44: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, further comprising the beta subunit
of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).
         Claim 45: The modified glycoprotein hormone of claim 32, wherein the alpha subunit is derived
from an equine alpha subunit (SEQ ID NO: 4).
         Claim 46: A method for stimulating a glycoprotein receptor in an animal, comprising
administering the modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claims 32 to 45 to an animal.

                                                 39
       Claim 47: A method for stimulating ovulation in an animal, comprising administering the
modified glycoprotein hormone of any of claim s 32 to 45 to the animal.
       Claim 48: The method of any of claims 47 to 48, wherein the animal is a horse.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
                                              SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>   Szkudl i nski , Mar i usz W.
                      Wei nt r aub, Br uce D.
              <120>   Gl ycopr ot ei n Hor mone Long- Act i ng Super agoni st s
              <130>   056815- 5010- WO
              <150>   US 61/ 677, 331
<removed-apn>
              <151>   2012- 07- 30
              <160>   44
              <170>   Pat ent I n ver si on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Modi f i ed gl ycopr ot ei n i nser t
              <400>   1
              Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val
              1                 5
              <210>   2
              <211>   96
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   2
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Lys Gl u Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                           20                  25                       30
              Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys
                       35                   40                     45
              Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys
                  50                   55                    60
              Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val
                                                      Page 1

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              65                      70                  75                     80
              Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                                85                    90                   95
              <210>   3
              <211>   96
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Ovi s ar i es
              <400>   3
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Lys Gl u Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                           20                  25                       30
              Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys
                       35                   40                     45
              Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys
                  50                   55                    60
              Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val
              65                    70                   75                    80
              Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                                85                    90                   95
              <210>   4
              <211>   96
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   4
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu
              1                 5                     10                    15
              Ar g Gl u Asn Lys Tyr Phe Phe Lys Leu Gl y Val Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                            20                  25                      30
              Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g
                                                      Page 2

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
                          35                 40                    45
              Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys
                  50                   55                    60
              Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val Met Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu
              65                    70                     75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                                85                   90                    95
              <210>   5
              <211>   96
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sus scr of a
              <400>   5
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Lys Gl u Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Leu Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                           20                  25                       30
              Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys
                       35                   40                     45
              Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys
                  50                   55                    60
              Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn Al a Ar g Val
              65                    70                   75                     80
              Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                                85                    90                   95
              <210>   6
              <211>   93
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapi ens
              <400>   6
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Cys Thr Leu Gl n Gl u Asn
                                                        Page 3

                                             56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              1                 5                      10                      15
              Pr o Phe Phe Ser Gl n Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Leu Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys
                           20                      25                      30
              Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Leu Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met
                      35                     40                    45
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Gl n Lys Asn Val Thr Ser Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys
                  50                   55                   60
              Ser Tyr Asn Ar g Val Thr Val Met Gl y Gl y Phe Lys Val Gl u Asn Hi s
              65                   70                    75                   80
              Thr Al a Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                                85                  90
              <210>   7
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   7
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp
                            20                     25                   30
              Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                        35                     40                   45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                     55                  60
              Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val
              65                    70                    75                   80
              Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr
                               85                     90                    95
                                                         Page 4

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                          100
              <210>   8
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ovi s ar i es
              <400>   8
<removed-apn>
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp
                            20                     25                   30
              Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                        35                     40                   45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                     55                  60
              Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val
              65                    70                    75                   80
              Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr
                               85                     90                    95
              Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                          100
              <210>   9
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   9
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Thr Gl n Asp
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Phe Ar g Leu Gl y
                            20                     25                   30
                                                        Page 5

                                             56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Val Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                       35                     40                    45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                      55                  60
              Ser Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val
              65                   70                    75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Met Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr
                                 85                    90                   95
              Cys Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                           100
              <210>   10
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sus scr of a
              <400>   10
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Leu Gl y
                            20                     25                   30
              Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                        35                     40                   45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                     55                  60
              Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val
              65                    70                    75                   80
              Met Gl y Asn Al a Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr
                                85                     90                    95
              Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                          100
                                                        Page 6

                                                  56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <210>   11
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapi ens
              <400>   11
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                     10                   15
<removed-apn>
              Cys Cys Thr Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Pr o Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o
                          20                     25                    30
              I l e Leu Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o
                        35                    40                    45
              Leu Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Gl n Lys Asn Val Thr Ser Gl u
                  50                   55                   60
              Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Ser Tyr Asn Ar g Val Thr Val Met Gl y
              65                  70                   75                   80
              Gl y Phe Lys Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Al a Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr
                               85                     90                   95
              Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                           100
              <210>   12
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Modi f i ed gl ycopr ot ei n i nser t
              <400>   12
              Thr Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val
              1               5
              <210>   13
              <211>   92
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
                                                              Page 7

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <400>   13
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Thr Leu Gl n Gl u Asn Pr o
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Phe Phe Ser Gl n Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Leu Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys
                          20                       25                     30
<removed-apn>
              Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Leu Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu
                      35                     40                    45
              Val Gl n Lys Asn Val Thr Ser Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Ser
                  50                   55                   60
              Tyr Asn Ar g Val Thr Val Met Gl y Gl y Phe Lys Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr
              65                   70                    75                    80
              Al a Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                                85                  90
              <210>   14
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   14
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu Lys Ar g Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp
                            20                   25                  30
              Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                        35                     40                   45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                     55                  60
              Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val
              65                    70                    75                   80
                                                        Page 8

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr
                               85                     90                    95
              Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                          100
              <210>   15
              <211>   103
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   15
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o
                            20                     25                    30
              Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr
                       35                      40                   45
              Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e
                   50                     55                  60
              Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr
              65                    70                   75                    80
              Val Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser
                               85                    90                     95
              Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                          100
              <210>   16
              <211>   103
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   16
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n
              1                 5                    10                    15
                                                        Page 9

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu Lys Ar g Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o
                            20                    25                     30
              Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr
                       35                      40                   45
              Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e
                   50                     55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr
              65                    70                   75                    80
              Val Met Gl y Asn Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser
                               85                    90                     95
              Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s Lys Ser
                          100
              <210>   17
              <211>   98
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   17
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr
                            20                    25                     30
              Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g
                       35                   40                     45
              Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr
                  50                  55                     60
              Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn Val
              65                   70                    75                   80
              Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s
                                85                     90                  95
                                                        Page 10

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Lys Ser
              <210>     18
              <211>     98
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Bos t aur us
<removed-apn>
              <400>     18
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Lys Leu Lys Ar g Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr
                          20                   25                    30
              Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Ar g
                       35                   40                     45
              Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a Thr
                  50                  55                     60
              Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn Val
              65                   70                    75                   80
              Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr Hi s
                                85                     90                  95
              Lys Ser
              <210>     19
              <211>     99
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Bos t aur us
              <400>     19
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Lys Leu Lys Ar g Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e
                          20                   25                   30
                                                       Page 11

                                                  56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a
                       35                   40                    45
              Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a
                   50                  55                   60
              Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn
<removed-apn>
              65                   70                   75                    80
              Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr
                                85                    90                   95
              Hi s Lys Ser
              <210>   20
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Modi f i ed gl ycopr ot ei n i nser t
              <400>   20
              Val Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr
              1               5
              <210>   21
              <211>   99
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapi ens
              <400>   21
              Al a Pr o Asp Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys
              1                 5                     10                    15
              Cys Thr Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Pr o Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e
                          20                     25                     30
              Leu Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Leu
                       35                   40                    45
                                                              Page 12

                                          56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Gl n Lys Asn Val Thr Ser Gl u Ser
                   50                  55                   60
              Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Ser Tyr Asn Ar g Val Thr Val Met Gl y Gl y
              65                   70                   75                   80
              Phe Lys Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Al a Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr
                               85                    90                   95
<removed-apn>
              Hi s Lys Ser
              <210>   22
              <211>   99
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400>   22
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e
                           20                     25                    30
              Tyr Gl n Cys Met Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr Pr o Al a
                       35                   40                    45
              Ar g Ser Lys Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser Gl u Al a
                   50                  55                   60
              Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe Thr Lys Al a Thr Val Met Gl y Asn
              65                   70                   75                    80
              Val Ar g Val Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl u Cys Hi s Cys Ser Thr Cys Tyr Tyr
                                85                    90                   95
              Hi s Lys Ser
              <210>   23
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
                                                        Page 13

                                                  56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   bFSH super agoni st ( 5R)
              <400>   23
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu
              1                 5                     10                     15
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                            20                    25                       30
              <210>   24
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   bFSH super agoni st ( 4R+1K)
              <400>   24
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                           20                    25                       30
              <210>   25
              <211>   38
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   bFSH super agoni st ( 5R+I ns1)
              <400>   25
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp
                            20                     25                   30
              Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                        35
                                                             Page 14

                                                     56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <210>      26
              <211>      39
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>      bFSH super agoni st ( 5R+I ns2)
              <400>      26
<removed-apn>
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o
                            20                     25                    30
              Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                       35
              <210>      27
              <211>      34
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>      bFSH super agoni st ( 5R+I ns3)
              <400>      27
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr
                            20                    25                     30
              Gl n Cys
              <210>      28
              <211>      35
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>      bFSH super agoni st ( 5R+I ns4)
              <400>      28
                                                                Page 15

                                                  56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e
                           20                     25                    30
              Tyr Gl n Cys
<removed-apn>
                       35
              <210>   29
              <211>   38
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   bFSH super agoni st ( 4R+1K+I ns1)
              <400>   29
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp
                            20                    25                   30
              Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                        35
              <210>   30
              <211>   39
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   bFSH super agoni st ( 4R+1K+I ns2)
              <400>   30
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Met Gl n
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o
                            20                     25                   30
              Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                                                             Page 16

                                                     56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
                          35
              <210>      31
              <211>      34
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>      bFSH super agoni st ( 4R+1K+I ns3)
<removed-apn>
              <400>      31
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Leu Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr
                            20                   25                     30
              Gl n Cys
              <210>      32
              <211>      35
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>      bFSH super agoni st ( 4R+1K+I ns4)
              <400>      32
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Asn Val Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e
                           20                    25                    30
              Tyr Gl n Cys
                       35
              <210>      33
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>      hFSH super agoni st ( 4R)
                                                                Page 17

                                                  56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <400>   33
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Cys Thr Leu Ar g Ar g Asn
              1                 5                      10                   15
              Ar g Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Leu Gl n Cys
                           20                      25
<removed-apn>
              <210>   34
              <211>   36
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   hFSH super agoni st ( 4R+I ns1)
              <400>   34
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                     10                   15
              Cys Cys Thr Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o
                          20                     25                    30
              I l e Leu Gl n Cys
                        35
              <210>   35
              <211>   35
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   hFSH super agoni st ( 4R+I ns2)
              <400>   35
              Al a Pr o Asp Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys
              1                 5                     10                    15
              Cys Thr Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e
                          20                     25                     30
              Leu Gl n Cys
                       35
                                                             Page 18

                                                  56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <210>   36
              <211>   31
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   hFSH super agoni st ( 4R+I ns3)
              <400>   36
<removed-apn>
              Al a Pr o Asp Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Cys Thr Leu Ar g
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Ar g Asn Ar g Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Leu Gl n Cys
                            20                    25                       30
              <210>   37
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i ci al Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   hFSH super agoni st ( 4R+I ns4)
              <400>   37
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Cys Thr Leu
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Phe Phe Ser Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Leu Gl n Cys
                            20                    25                        30
              <210>   38
              <211>   101
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   38
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Ar g Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Phe Ar g Leu Gl y Val
                            20                     25                    30
              Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr
                         35                    40                   45
                                                        Page 19

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser
                   50                     55                   60
              Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val Met
              65                   70                    75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr Cys
                                 85                    90                   95
              Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                            100
              <210>   39
              <211>   101
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   39
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Phe Ar g Leu Gl y Val
                            20                    25                    30
              Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr
                         35                    40                   45
              Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser
                   50                     55                   60
              Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val Met
              65                   70                    75                     80
              Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr Cys
                                 85                    90                   95
              Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                            100
              <210>   40
                                                       Page 20

                                            56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   40
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Thr Gl n Asp
              1                 5                    10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Lys Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Phe Ar g Leu Gl y
                            20                    25                   30
              Val Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                       35                     40                   45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                      55                  60
              Ser Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val
              65                   70                    75                     80
              Met Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr
                                 85                    90                   95
              Cys Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                           100
              <210>   41
              <211>   101
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   41
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Gl n Asp Cys
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Hi s Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Phe Ar g Leu Gl y Val
                            20                     25                    30
              Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o Thr
                         35                    40                   45
              Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr Ser
                                                       Page 21

                                                 56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
                  50                        55                     60
              Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val Met
              65                   70                    75                     80
              Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr Cys
                                 85                    90                   95
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                            100
              <210>    42
              <211>    102
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Equus cabal l us
              <400>    42
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Asn Val Thr I l e Asn Val Thr Thr Gl n Asp
              1                 5                    10                    15
              Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Ar g Leu Ar g Hi s Asn Ar g Tyr Phe Phe Ar g Leu Gl y
                            20                     25                   30
              Val Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys Lys Gl y Cys Cys Phe Ser Ar g Al a Tyr Pr o
                       35                     40                   45
              Thr Pr o Al a Ar g Ser Ar g Lys Thr Met Leu Val Pr o Lys Asn I l e Thr
                  50                      55                  60
              Ser Gl u Ser Thr Cys Cys Val Al a Lys Al a Phe I l e Ar g Val Thr Val
              65                   70                    75                     80
              Met Gl y Asn I l e Lys Leu Gl u Asn Hi s Thr Gl n Cys Tyr Cys Ser Thr
                                 85                    90                   95
              Cys Tyr Hi s Hi s Lys I l e
                           100
              <210>    43
              <211>    28
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Equus cabal l us
                                                            Page 22

                                             56815- 5010WOSequenceLi st i ng
<removed-date>
              <400>   43
              Al a Pr o Asp Val Gl n Asp Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Thr Leu Gl n Gl u Asn Pr o
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Phe Phe Ser Gl n Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o I l e Leu Gl n Cys
                          20                       25
<removed-apn>
              <210>   44
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus cabal l us
              <400>   44
              Phe Pr o Asp Gl y Gl u Phe Thr Met Gl n Gl y Cys Pr o Gl u Cys Lys Leu
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Lys Gl u Asn Lys Tyr Phe Ser Lys Pr o Asp Al a Pr o I l e Tyr Gl n Cys
                           20                  25                       30
                                                         Page 23

