                                               - 31
   ABSTRACT
   A method and controller for compensating control variables of a continuous process
   prior to the control variables being input to the controller/control matrix to at least
 5 partially mask the effect of a selected disturbance or a manipulated variable on that
   controlled variable to the controller. The controlled variable(s) has been chosen to be
   an inference of a desired underlying or related variable which is not directly
   measureable. The selected disturbance to be masked is one which does affect the
   (measured) controlled variable, but not the underlying desired variable. Thus by at
10 least partially masking the effect to all intents and purposes the controller is unaware of
   the effect of the selected disturbance on the controlled variable and therefore, for a
   fully masked disturbance, does not make any adjustment to a manipulated variable
   associated with the selected disturbance which would unnecessarily alter the
   underlying desired variable. In the event of a partially masked disturbance there will be
15 some modification of the manipulated variable in comparison to that which would occur
   in the absence of the proposed method.

   0                       C
                   I-      Co
                          0
                  0)0
                  ~-  I 0
                        u
     -~-~       +
07      07   07
          _0

                                               -   1
     A METHOD AND CONTROLLER FOR CONTROLLING A CONTINUOUS PROCESS
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   A method and controller are disclosed for controlling a continuous process. The
 5 disclosed method and controller may be used to control various continuous processes
   including, but not limited to, refrigeration in a mixed refrigerant loop in a LNG
   liquefaction plant.
   BACKGROUND ART
10 The genesis of the disclosed method and controller has been the complex issue of
   controlling the constituents of a mixed refrigerant in an LNG liquefaction plant. In broad
   terms a LNG liquefaction plant has a main cryogenic heat exchanger (MCHE) in which
   a gas feed stream is liquefied by cooling to about -160' C. Cooling is achieved by heat
   exchanged with a mixed refrigerant which flows through a mixed refrigerant (MR) loop.
15 The MR loop includes the MCHE, a mixed refrigerant compression stage and a MR
   accumulator. The mixed refrigerant is a combination of a light mixed refrigerant (LMR)
   and a heavy mixed refrigerant (HMR).
   Following compression by the MR compression stage the compressed mixed
20 refrigerant enters the MR accumulator. The MR accumulator comprises both liquid and
   vapour form of the compressed MR. The vapour phase of the MR is fed to a LMR
   circuit while the liquid phase of the MR is fed to a HMR circuit. Both the LMR circuit
   and the HMR circuit flow through the MCHE.
25 The mixed refrigerant inventory comprises a combination of refrigerants predominantly:
   methane ("C1"), ethane ("C2"), propane and heavier hydrocarbons ("C3+") and
   nitrogen ("N2").
   One method of controlling the mixed refrigerant is on a "composition and inventory"
30 basis in which calculations are performed to estimate the total mass of the individual
   components within the entire MR loop and to then hold that constant by adding or
   purging refrigerant components.

                                            - 2
   This requires very complex calculations as it is necessary to determine the composition
   of both the HMR and LMR (by performing a flash calculation on the measured analyser
   composition at the temperature and pressure of the MR accumulator) and to examine
 5 the behaviour of the MR within different sections of the process piping and vessels.
   Variations in liquid (HMR) inventory manifest as a level change in the MR accumulator.
   Variations in vapour (LMR) inventory manifest as pressure changes in the LMR
   pipework. These can both be measured on-line.
10 The inventory is analysed considering the system to have some sections of constant
   volume (e.g. permanently liquid full) and some variable sections (e.g. liquid level in a
   vessel). For the vapour phases all sections were considered variable due to pressure
   variations. Estimates are made for all sections at typical conditions and added
   together. This is used to generate a base (reference) inventory point, considered as
15 "100% of desired inventory".   Addition or removal of any components would result in
   measurable variation in the variable sections of the MR loop and this would then
   translate into movement in the "% of desired", which became one of the control
   variables "CVs".
20 The inventories of the separate components are estimated using the estimated
   inventories and the mass compositions of the separate phases. This allows an overall
   'pool composition" to be calculated. This result, which in fact does not physically exist
   anywhere in the system, could be considered the result of the hypothetical case of
   removing all the MR from the system, vaporising it and then measuring the resultant
25 composition as (mass) percentages of the N2/C1/C2/C3+ components.
   From this, model-based control could adjust the flows of the appropriate make-up
   streams (or purges) to maintain the "inventory" and the separate component pool
   composition percentages.
30
   This approach suffers from several drawbacks.
   Addition or removal of a component does not instantly affect the entire MR circuit, or
   even the analyser. Being a gas chromatograph the analyser typically has an 8-10

                                              - 3
   minute response time. The MR circuit also takes 15-30 minutes for compositional
   changes to equilibrate throughout the circuit. Hence even though calculations are
   performed every minute, it is necessary to provide a significant filter to smooth the
   results of the calculations to reduce meaningless noise associated with misaligned
 5 measurements. This results in a delay in response to any unmeasured disturbance.
   The piping and vessel volumes of the different sections (liquid, vapour or two-phase)
   are not known exactly. Errors in the assumed system volumes directly translate into
   errors in the change of component percentage of desired inventory. Errors in the split
10 between liquid, vapour and two-phase inventory will also affect the individual
   component percentages, because each phase has a different composition. The MR
   inventory also has un-measured rate-dependent variable hold-up in the MCHEs and
   also but to a lesser degree in the compressors and propane (C3) coolers, and these
   are estimated from rate changes but introduce another source of error.
15
   The "pool composition" does not directly relate to the parameters needed to optimise
   the MR loop and the MCHE operation in particular, especially since the pool
   composition is calculated with mass (not molar) percentages. Hence it is not
   immediately obvious how to set or adjust targets for the pool composition based on
20 observed behaviour at the MCHE and in the MR loop in general.
   The response of this control system to diurnal variation in throughput is always
   somewhat compromised. In a typical gas-turbine driven LNG liquefaction facility or
   corresponding LNG train operating at maximum throughput, the production rate will
25 vary continuously with ambient temperature changes because the turbine power
   varies. As noted above, rate changes alter the unmeasured hold-up of liquid MR in the
   MCHE. The HMR/LMR ratio is an optimisation variable for the LNG production
   process, but also affects the measured composition at the analyser and hence the
   composition and inventory calculations. Similarly, altering the compression ratio is also
30 an optimisation variable, but this alters the component split between the LMR and
   HMR, even with no make-up or addition of components.
   The calculation processes described above do work, but since they require reasonable
   filtering to smooth and stabilise the results, and since the actual pipe volumes are

                                              -   4
   unknown, there is always some phase lag and error. This inevitably results in
   unnecessary and undesirable addition or removal of MR components, and a slow
   response to disturbances and hence poorer optimisation. Removal of MR components
   adds to operating costs as the removed components are usually flared and thus lost
 5 from the system.
   Also that addition or removal of any component streams will affect all the component
   percentages (by dilution). This results in a 100% dense control matrix where every
   component composition behaves as an integrator (rather than a steady-state variable)
10 with respect to changes in the make-up flows. The problem is further compounded
   because process changes associated with diurnal variation or other adjustments (such
   as LMR/HMR ratio) will result in components moving between the HMR and LMR
   phases (complicating the inventory calculations) and also inventory moving between
   the phases - even if nothing is being added or subtracted from the system.
15
   The model-based control thus utilises: as control variables the percentage of C1, C2,
   C3+ and N2 mixed refrigerant pool; and as manipulation variables the volumes of C1,
   C2, C3+ and N2. Other external factors which affect the control variables such as
   diurnal temperature variations and rate hold-ups are often referred to as disturbances
20 or disturbance variables. The general principle of the model-based control is that one
   or more control variables which relates to a characteristic of the process or process
   stream which results from the process is measured and compared to a set-point or
   reference. The deviation between the controlled variable and the set-point is fed into a
   controller (or a control matrix of the controller). The controller then determines on the
25 basis of the control matrix the appropriate control of a manipulated variable to affect
   the process so that the deviation between the controlled variable and the set-point is
   minimised.
   Another method for controlling a process is to use active disturbance rejection control
   (ADRC) such as for example as described in WO 2009051891. This method seeks to
30 reject both unknown and internal dynamics of a system, and external disturbances
   without needing a detailed knowledge of the plant dynamics. The only information
   required to configure an ADRC is knowledge of the relative order of the plant and its
   high frequency gain. The ARDC for a nth order system proposes a nth order output

                                               - 5
   which is the sum of: (a) a generalised disturbance being a mathematic function having
   as inputs: the system output, its first to (n-1)th derivatives and the external input
   disturbance; and (b) the product of the control system and a constant. The ARDC
   controller then relies on an extended state observer (ESO) which is a mathematical
 5 model designed to estimate the effect of most plant dynamics and external
   disturbances into a single quantity along with its derivatives.
   Such a method thus relies upon the design of an extended state observer that closely
   estimates the plant output, its first to n-1 derivatives and the mathematical function
   which is treated as a generalised disturbance using the first to n-1 derivatives, where
10 "n" is the order of the plant. In short ARDC proposes to cancel the generalised
   disturbance (i.e. the external disturbances and unknown internal dynamics) using the
   output of the ESO to reduce the plant, from a control aspect, to a unity gain, nth
   integral plant that can be easily controlled with linear proportional derivative with feed
   forward. But the underlying premise of the process in WO 2009051891 is that the
15 measured variable is the desired variable to be controlled, and hence that the desired
   variable can in fact be measured (in order to create and observe the error signal),
   which as described above cannot be achieved via direct measurement in many
   processes for example for the case of the mixed refrigerant control. Although
   generalizable to any measureable system, the examples quoted are for robotic arm
20 motion and related applications, which are of course directly measureable. The prior
   art does in fact describe the inherent difficulties associated with making and
   maintaining accurate mathematical models when linear time-invariant models are used
   to characterise non-linear time-varying systems such as the mixed refrigerant process,
   particularly when gain scheduling and similar techniques are applied.
25 The above reference to the prior art is not intended to limit the application of the
   method and controller as disclosed herein. In particular while mixed refrigerant control
   within a LNG liquefaction plant and corresponding LNG train provides background
   context and one example of a field of application, the disclosed method and controller
   have application to process control in general and may be used in relation to other
30 specific processes.

                                                -   6
   SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
    In broad and general terms the idea of the disclosed method and controller is to
   compensate the control variables prior to them being input to the controller/control
   matrix to at least partially mask the effect of a selected disturbance or manipulated
 5 variable on that controlled variable to the controller. The controlled variable(s) has
   been chosen to be an inference of a desired underlying or related variable which is not
   directly measureable. The selected disturbance to be masked is one which does affect
   the (measured) controlled variable, but not the underlying desired variable. Thus by at
   least partially masking the effect to all intents and purposes the controller is unaware of
10 the effect of the selected disturbance on the controlled variable and therefore, for a
   fully masked disturbance, does not make any adjustment to a manipulated variable
   associated with the selected disturbance which would unnecessarily alter the
   underlying desired variable. In the event of a partially masked disturbance there will be
   some modification of the manipulated variable in comparison to that which would occur
15 in the absence of the proposed method. This modification would be one of partially
   reducing the adjustment of the manipulated variable in response to the partially
   masked disturbance.
     In the disclosed method and controller one or more disturbance variable and/or
   manipulated variable is allowed to affect the process and/or the resultant process
20 stream. Throughout this specification the term "independent variable" may also use to
   denote either: one or more disturbance variables; one or more manipulated variables;
   or as a collective term for both one or more disturbance variables and one or more
   manipulated variables. Thus in more generic terms the disclosed method and controller
   allows one or more independent variable to affect the process and/or the resultant
25 process stream. But the method and controller is unable to see any effect (or at least
   only a part, but not the full, effect) of the independent variable on the controlled
   variable because the controlled variable is compensated prior to being input to the
   controller and associated control matrix. Therefore, in the case of seeing no effect on
   an independent variable, the method and controller makes no variation to a
30 manipulated variable associated with the independent variable.
   In one aspect there is disclosed a method of operating a controller of a continuous
   process the controller having: as inputs one or more measured control variables (CV)

                                               - 7
   being indicative of a characteristic of the process or an associated process stream
   arising from the process; and as outputs, signals to vary one or more manipulated
   variables (MV) that affect the process; the method comprising: modifying the one or
   more CV prior to input to the controller to at least partially mask an effect of a
 5 disturbance on the process or the process stream such that the controller at least
   partially reduces its adjustment of an MV in response to that partially masked
   disturbance. The modifying of the one or more CV prior to input to the controller may
   be applied to some but not all of the disturbances.
   In one embodiment the method comprises modifying the one or more CV prior to input
10 to the controller to fully mask the effect of the disturbance wherein the controller makes
   no change to the MV in response to the effect of that disturbance on the process or
   process stream.
   In one embodiment the modifying comprises:
   allowing a disturbance to affect the process or the process stream, measuring the at
15 least one CV subsequent to the effect of the disturbance and producing a
   compensated control variable CV' by adjusting the at least one measured CV to
   substantially cancel the effect of the disturbance on the at least one measured CV.
   In one embodiment the disturbance comprises one or both of: a load on the process;
   and, a variation in the process or process stream arising from modification of a MV.
20 In one embodiment the process is a refrigerant control process in a mixed refrigerant
   (MR) loop of a LNG liquefaction plant the MR loop having a mixed refrigerant
   compression stage and a MR accumulator through which the mixed refrigerant flows
   and wherein the mixed refrigerant comprises a mixture of components in liquid phase,
   vapour phase or both liquid and vapour phases, the components including N2, C1, C2,
25 and C3+; and
   wherein the one or more CV comprise one or a combination two or more of:
            (a) a molar percentage of N2 in the MR at the high pressure end of the
                compression stage ("CV1");
            (b) pressure in the MR accumulator ("CV2");

                                              - 8
            (c) a molar ratio C3/C2 at a high pressure end of the compression stage
                ("CV3"),
            (d) liquid level within the MR accumulator ("CV4").
   In one embodiment the disturbance is one or a plurality of disturbances.
 5 In one embodiment one disturbance comprises a change in rate of the process.
   In one embodiment another disturbance comprises a change in ambient temperature.
   In one embodiment one or more of the control variables CV1-CV3 is compensated to
   produce corresponding compensated control variables CV1'-CV3' in which
   compensation is applied to mask the effect on the control variable CV1-CV3 of
10 circulation through the MR loop.
   In one embodiment the control variable CV4 is compensated to produce a
   compensated liquid level control variable CV4' and wherein one or both of CV4 and
   CV4' are used as inputs to the controller.
   In one embodiment one of the manipulated variables MV1 is a flow rate of an N2-rich
15 stream added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller
   is arranged to add or purge an N2-rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant when
   CV1' is outside of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment one manipulated variable (MV1) is a flow rate of an N2-rich stream
   added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is
20 arranged to purge or add N2 to the mixed refrigerant when CV2' is outside of
   prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment another manipulated variable (MV2) is a flow rate of a C1 rich
   stream added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is
   arranged to purge or add C1 to or from the mixed refrigerant loop when CV2' is outside
25 of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment another of the manipulated variables (MV3) is a flow rate of a C2
   rich stream added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the

                                             -  9
   controller is arranged to add or purge the C2 rich stream to or from the mixed
   refrigerant when CV3' is outside of prescribed limits.
    In one embodiment the controller is arranged to add or purge a C2 rich stream to or
   from the mixed refrigerant when CV4' is outside of prescribed limits.
 5  In one embodiment one manipulated variable (MV3) is flow rate of a C2 rich stream
   added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is
   arranged to or add or purge the C2 rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant when
   CV4' is outside of prescribed limits.
    In one embodiment one of the manipulated variables (MV4) is a flow rate of a C3 rich
10 stream added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller
   is arranged to purge or add the C3 rich stream from or to the mixed refrigerant when
   CV3' is outside of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment another of the manipulated variables (MV3) is a flow rate of a C2
   rich steam added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the
15 controller is arranged to purge or add the C2 rich stream from or to the mixed
   refrigerant when CV4' is outside of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment wherein another of the manipulated variables (MV4) is a flow rate
   of a C3 rich steam added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the
   controller is arranged to purge or add the C3 rich stream from or to the mixed
20 refrigerant when CV4' is outside of prescribed limits.
   In a second aspect there is disclosed a method of controlling a mixed refrigerant (MR)
   loop in a LNG liquefaction plant, the MR loop having a main cryogenic heat exchanger
   (MCHE), a mixed refrigerant compression stage and a MR accumulator through which
   the mixed refrigerant flows, the mixed refrigerant comprising a mixture of components
25 in liquid, vapour or both liquid and vapour phases, the components including N2, C1,
   C2, and C3+, the method comprising:
   measuring liquid level within the MR accumulator;
   measuring other characteristics of the mixed refrigerant at various points in the MR
   loop;

                                              - 10
   dynamically compensating the measured other characteristics that are subject to
   variation due solely to circulation of the MR through the MR loop;
   using the compensated other characteristics and the actual measured liquid level as
   control variables in control matrix for an advanced process controller (APC);
 5 arranging the APC to operate in accordance with the control matrix to add or purge one
   or more of the components to maintain the MR within prescribed parameters.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect measuring other characteristics comprises
   measuring a molar ratio C3/C2 at a high pressure end of the compression stage.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect measuring other characteristics comprises
10 measuring a molar percentage of N2 in the MR at a or the high pressure end of the
   compression stage.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect measuring other characteristics comprises
   measuring pressure in the MR accumulator.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect arranging the APC to operate in accordance
15 with the control matrix comprises arranging the APC to add or purge one or both of a
   N2 rich stream and a C1 rich stream to maintain the MR within the prescribed
   parameters when the compensated pressure is outside of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect arranging the APC to operate in accordance
   with the control matrix comprises arranging the APC to add or purge a N2 rich stream
20 to maintain the MR within the prescribed parameters when the compensated molar
   percentage of N2 is outside of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect arranging the APC to operate in accordance
   with the control matrix comprises arranging the APC to add or purge one or both of a
   C2 rich stream and a C3 rich stream to maintain the MR within the prescribed
25 parameters when the compensated molar ratio of C3/C2 is outside of prescribed limits.
   In one embodiment of the second aspect measuring arranging the APC to operate in
   accordance with the control matrix comprises arranging the APC to add or purge one
   or both of a C2 rich stream and a C3 rich stream to maintain the MR within the

                                              - 11
   prescribed parameters when the measured liquid level within the MR accumulator is
   outside of prescribed limits.
   In a third aspect there is disclosed a method of operating a controller of a continuous
   process, the controller being responsive to a control matrix, the control matrix having:
 5 as inputs one or more measured CV being indicative of a characteristic of the process
   or an associated process stream arising from the process; and as outputs, signals to
   the controller to vary one or more MV that affect the process; the method comprising:
   modifying the one or more CV prior to input to the control matrix to mask from the
   control matrix at least a part of the effect of a disturbance on the process or the
10 process stream such that the controller does not vary an MV in response to that
   disturbance.
   In a fourth aspect there is disclosed a method of controlling a continuous process
   which results in a process stream, the process or the process stream being dependent
   on one or more independent variables, the process also having a process controller
15 operable to vary one or more MVs dependent on at least one measured controlled
   variable CV which is indicative of a characteristic of the process or the process stream,
   the method comprising:
   allowing selected independent variables to affect the process;
   measuring the at least one CV subsequent to the effect of the selected independent
20 variables;
   modifying the at least one measured CV to compensate for the effect on the process
   or process stream of the selected independent variable to produce a modified control
   variable CV';
   using the modified control variable CV' as an input to the controller wherein the
25 applied compensation masks from the controller the effect of the selected independent
   variable on the CV.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS

                                             - 12
   Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the method and
   controller as set forth in the Summary, specific embodiments will now be described, by
   way of example only, with reference to the covering drawings in which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram illustrative of prior art classical control theory for controlling
 5 a dynamic process;
   Figure 2 is a more detailed block diagram illustrative of the prior art classical control
   theory shown in Figure 1 showing separate dynamic responses associated with
   separate individually measurable components of the load on the process;
   Figure 3 is a schematic representation of a control matrix for a controller operating
10 under the prior art classical control theory;
   Figure 4 is a block diagram illustrative of the disclosed system and method for
   controlling a dynamic process;
   Figure 5 is a schematic representation of a control matrix for a controller utilising the
   disclosed system and method for controlling a dynamic process;
15 Figure 6 is a schematic representation of a LNG liquefaction plant having a mixed
   refrigerant loop in relation to which embodiments of the disclosed system and method
   may be applied;
   Figure 7 is a schematic representation of a control matrix for a mixed refrigerant loop of
   a LNG liquefaction plant utilising prior art classical control theory; and
20 Figure 8 is a schematic representation of a control matrix for a mixed refrigerant loop of
   a LNG liquefaction plant utilising the disclosed system and method for controlling a
   dynamic process.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
   Figure 1 illustrates a system 10 employing classical control theory for controlling a
25 dynamic process 12. As an example the process 12 may be a flotation process for
   recovering a mineral. A desired result of the process 12 is the amount of mineral
   recovered in terms kilograms of mineral per hour. The system 10 includes a controller
   14 which is associated with the process 12 or a process stream arising from the

                                              - 13
   process 12. The controller 14 is arranged to control the process 12 so that the recovery
   of the mineral is at a desired level or at least within an acceptable range. The floatation
   process 12 is performed on a feed stream 16 which carries the mineral to be
   recovered. The feed stream 16 may be subject to various loads or disturbances such
 5 as fluctuations in feed stream pressure.
   In order to control the process 12 the amount of mineral recovered is measured per
   unit time. This represents a controlled variable "CV"of the system 10. A comparator 18
   compares the measured controlled variable CV with a reference level or range 20. This
   produces a deviation or error 22 which is provided as an input to the controller 14. The
10 controller 14 has an embedded control algorithm or control matrix which determines
   the controller's response to the deviation or error 22. In this example the controller is
   arranged to control the position of a valve 24 in response to the load or disturbance on
   the feed stream 16. The position of valve 24 is a manipulated variable "MV" of the
   system 10.
15 Thus in the system 10 any disturbance or load on the feed stream 16 which has an
   effect on the CV is seen by the controller 14 by virtue of the deviation 22 and
   subsequently acted upon by the controller 14 to control the MV in response to the
   disturbance with the ultimate aim of reducing the deviation or error to or close zero.
   Figure 2 illustrates the same system 10 as shown in Figure 1 but with the process 12
20 separated into individual dynamic responses associated with separate individually
   measurable components of the overall load/disturbances. For example load:
   q1 may be feed stream pressure
   q2 may be feed stream temperature
   qn may be feed stream pH
25 The response of the process 12 or the characteristics of the associated process stream
   vary in different ways to the different disturbances. This is illustrated in Figure 2 both
   mathematically and graphically mathematically for each load. In mathematical terms
   the response to process 12 to a variation in the load q1 is:
   KpqlGpql

                                             - 14
   Where:
   Kp is steady-state gain of the process,
   Gp is dynamic gain of the process consisting of a scale gain and a phase angle
   Graphically this is represented by a curve having an initial horizontal portion
 5 representing dead time, i.e. a lag between a variation in the load and the response to
   that variation on the process, followed by a steady-state response to a new point after
   the load which then settles to that new point.
   One or more CVs are measured at the output of the process 12. While Figure 2 shows
   only a single CV being used to provide an input to the controller 14, multiple CVs can
10 and commonly are used to provide inputs to the controller 14. For example in this it
   instance there may be two CVs: kg/h of recovered mineral; and, purity of the recovered
   mineral.
   The CVs are compared at comparator 18 with respective set-points (being either a
   desired level or a range for the CV) to produce corresponding deviations or errors.
15 These are then provided to the controller 14 which on the basis of an embedded
   algorithm or control matrix affects one or more MVs for a purpose of reducing the
   deviations or errors to or close to zero. While only one MV is represented in Figure 2
   multiple MV's may be used, and indeed multiple MV's may be used in relation to any
   one CV. In the present example of the floatation process 12 MV's may include, but are
20 not limited to: feed stream pressure, feed stream flow rate, flow rate of an acid into the
   feed stream, flow rate of a base into the feed stream, flow rate of a catalyst into a
   flotation cell.
   As with the loads ql-qn the process 12 is of course responsive to the MV's. Indeed this
   is the entire purpose of the MV's. In Figure 2 the response of the process 12 to the
25 MV's is illustrated mathematically and graphically in the same manner as that in
   relation to the load q. The load/disturbance is also often referred to in the art as a
   disturbance variable DV. Hereinafter the expression "disturbance variable" or the
   acronym "DV" is used to denote a load or disturbance on a process. The expression
   "independent variable" or corresponding acronym "IV" is used in the art as a generic or
30 general expression which encompasses both DV's and MV's.

                                             - 15
   Thus in summary and in general terms where the system 10 is controlled in
   accordance with classical control theory the effect on the process of one or more IV's
   is ascertained by measuring one or more CVs which are characteristics of the process,
   or the process stream, and subsequently adjusting one or more MV's such that CVs
 5 are maintained at a set point (i.e. a specified level or within a predetermined range).
    Figure 3 shows a control matrix 50 employed by the controller 14 for performing the
   system and method 10. The matrix 50 shows the cause and effect relationship (steady
   state gain plus dynamic gain) between the independent variables (MVs, and DVs) and
   the controlled variables CVs. In this instance there are three controlled CV1, CV2, and
10 CV3; two disturbance variables DV1 and DV2; and three manipulated variables MV1,
   MV2 and MV3. The matrix 50 shows that the controlled variables CV1-CV3 are
   controlled to set-points or ranges by one or more of the MVs as part of the control
   algorithm. Disturbances introduced to the controlled variables CV1-CV3 by one or
   more of the DVs are also compensated for by moves in one or more of the MVs to
15 maintain the CVs at a set point or within a prescribed range.
    In the depicted control matrix 50 movement of the manipulated variable MV2 can be
   used to maintain CV1 and CV3 at a set point but has no effect on the controlled
   variable CV2, as indicated by the absence of a dynamic process response model in the
   box at the matrix location CV2/MV2.
20  Figure 4 depicts an embodiment of the disclosed system and method 100 in which the
   same reference numbers are used to know the same or similar features as those
   shown in Figure 2. As is readily apparent from a comparison between Figures 2 and 3
   the disclosed method and system 100 differs from the prior art system and method 10
   by applying compensation to a CV to subtract the effect of an independent variable IV,
25 which usually but not always, is a DV. To this end the method 100 includes a
   compensation or modification step 110 where the effect of a selected IV, in this case
   load q1, on process 12 is removed from a controlled variable CV1. This is represented
   in Figure 4 by subtracting the output of function (Kpql Gpql) from CV1 in comparator
    112. This results in a modified /compensated control variable CV1'. It is the modified
30 control variable CV1' that is compared at the comparator 18 with the corresponding
   set-point to generate the deviation or error 22.

                                              - 16
   Ideally the compensation applied will fully compensate for the effect of the selected IV
   on CV1. As a consequence the error or deviation 22 input to the controller 14 would be
   the same as if the disturbance never occurred. That is, the compensation step 112
   modifies CV1 prior to input into the controller 14 to effectively mask the effect of the
 5 selected IV on the process 12 so that the controller does not make an adjustment of
   the MV's associated with the effect of the selected IV. In some circumstances and
   processes it may be possible to modify a CV prior to input to the controller to fully mask
   the disturbance. However in many cases when attempting to fully mask the effect of a
   disturbance, due to imperfections in physical systems and acceptable measurement
10 tolerances, in practice the masking effect may not be complete, for example 95%-98%
   masking may be achieved. It is further contemplated however that the system and
   method 100 may be operated to intentionally only partially mask the effect of an IV (i.e.
   a DV or a MV).
   It is important to recognise that application of the disclosed system and method 100
15 does not in any way prevent the IV from affecting the process 12. Accordingly the
   disclosed system and method 100 allows a designated CV to vary. The system and
   method 100 however is able to selectively partially or substantially fully mask the effect
   of an IV on a CV so that the controller 14 does not make any adjustment of a particular
   MV in response to movement of or variations in that CV.
20 Figure 5 illustrates an example of control matrix 150 incorporated in the controller 14 of
   the disclosed system and method 100 shown in Figure 4. Using the prior art or
   standard control matrix 50 shown in Figure 3 as a base, the control matrix 150
   incorporated in embodiments of the present system and method 100 is amended or
   modified to remove the real effect of one or more of the independent variables (i.e. the
25 disturbance variables or manipulated variables) on one or more of the controlled
   variables. Specifically in this example the effect of the disturbance DV1 on the
   controlled variable CV3 is removed as indicated by the empty box at the corresponding
   matrix location; and the effect of the disturbance DV2 on the controlled variables CV2
   and CV3 is removed as indicated by the empty boxes at the corresponding matrix
30 locations.

                                             - 17
   In addition the effects of the disturbance DVs are first subtracted from the original
   controlled variable CVs creating the modified control variable CVs' before those
   variables are seen or otherwise acted upon by the controller 14 and control matrix 150.
   In this case, the controller 14 which operates in accordance with the control matrix 150
 5 would not need to make a move to counter a move in CV2' or CV3' if DV2 moves. CV2
   and CV3 will both move, but the corresponding modified controlled variables CV2' and
   CV3' are maintained at the same value as the corresponding controlled variables CV2
   and CV3 would have been had the disturbance DV2 not occurred. Hence the controller
   14 will not apply any compensating moves associated with a move of DV2 with respect
10 to CV2 and CV3. Moves to maintain CV1 would still be required. Similarly, the
   controller 14 would make no move to counter a move in the controlled variable CV3 if
   there is a change arising from the effect of the disturbance DV1.
   An embodiment of the system and method 100 will now be described with reference to
   the control of refrigerant inventory in a mixed refrigerant (MR) loop 200 of a LNG
15 liquefaction plant shown in Figure 6. The MR loop 200 includes a main cryogenic heat
   exchanger (MCHE) 202, a mixed refrigerant (MR) circuit 204, a heavy mixed
   refrigerant (HMR) circuit 206 and a light mixed refrigerant the (LMR) circuit 208. An
   outer body or shell of the MCHE 202 forms a shell side circuit. The MR circuit 204
   comprises a compression stage 210 which compresses a mixed refrigerant received
20 from the shell side circuit of the main cryogenic heat exchanger. The compressed
   mixed refrigerant is cooled by propane cooler 212 and supplied to a mixed refrigerant
   accumulator 214. The cooled compressed mixed refrigerant separates in the mixed
   refrigerant accumulator 214 into a vapour phase and a liquid phase. Natural gas flows
   enters at a warm end 215 of the MCHE 202, flows through a tube side circuit 217 and
25 leaves at a cold end 219 as a sub cooled liquefied stream.
   The vapour phase forms the light mixed refrigerant and flows through the LMR circuit
   208 which includes a tube side circuit 216 passing through the MCHE shell. The light
   mixed refrigerant passes through an expansion device 218 and enters the shell side
   circuit in which it is evaporated before being removed as a gas at a suction side of the
30 MR compression stage 210.
   The liquid phase which forms the heavy mixed refrigerant flows through the HMR
   circuit 206 which includes a tube side circuit 220 running through the MHCE shell. The

                                             - 18
   heavy mixed refrigerant is expanded through an expansion device 222 and enters the
   shell side circuit at an intermediate location. The heavy mixed refrigerant is also
   evaporated as it flows through the shell side circuit before being removed as a gas at
   the suction side of the MR compression stage 210.
 5 As mentioned in the discussion of the background art the mixed refrigerant inventory
   which circulates through the MR loop 200 primarily comprises: methane "Cl", ethane
   "C2"propane "C3" and heavier hydrocarbons "C3+" and nitrogen "N2". The pressure,
   temperature and ratio of various components of the mixed refrigerant vary at different
   points in the MR loop 200. Additionally the phase of the different components of the
10 mixed refrigerant will change depending on the pressure and temperature conditions at
   various points in the MR loop 200. The level of the liquid phase of the mixed refrigerant
   within the mixed refrigerant accumulator 214 will vary with changes in inlet
   temperature, pressure within the accumulator 214, and production rate. The pressure
   in the MR accumulator 214 will change with inlet pressure, production rate and the
15 LMR/HMR flow ratio. It is desirable to maintain the level of the liquid phase (i.e. the
   heavy mixed refrigerant) in the MR accumulator 214 within a specified range. The
   proportion of the components in the mixed refrigerant may be measured by an
   analyser 224 at the high pressure end of the MR compression stage 210. The analyser
   224 may be in the form of a gas chromatograph. There is typically a lag time of about
20  10-15 minutes between the analyser 224 taking a sample of the mixed refrigerant and
   providing a measure of the content of each component in the mixed refrigerant.
   In applying an embodiment of the system and method 100 to the mixed refrigerant loop
   200 the controlled variables are selected as one or a combination of two or more of:
            (a) a molar percentage of N2 in the MR at the high pressure end of the
25              compression stage 210 ("CV1");
            (b) pressure in the MR accumulator 214 ("CV2");
            (c) a molar ratio C3/C2 at a high pressure end of the MR compression stage
                210 ("CV3"),
            (d) liquid level within the MR accumulator ("CV4").

                                            - 19
   While the MR loop 200 is subjected to many disturbances, for the sake of simplicity
   and for the purposes of providing an example only an embodiment of the disclosed
   system and method 100 is described with reference to two possible disturbances
   DV1 (LMR/HMR ratio) and DV2 (production rate). Other possible DVs in the MR loop
 5 200 would for example include those related to "sloshing" of the MR in various parts of
   the MR the loop which do not affect the overall MR composition but can produce an
   appearance of variation from a set-point or reference level.
   Similarly there are many manipulated variables MVs the may be incorporated in
   various embodiments of the system and method 100 as applied to the MR loop 200.
10 Examples of the manipulated variables include, but are not limited to:
        *  the make-up flow rate of a N2-rich stream,
        *  the make-up flow rate of a Cl-rich stream
        *  the make-up flow rate of a C2-rich stream into the MR loop 200 at a first
            location
15      *  the make-up flow rate of a C2-rich stream into the MR loop 200 at a second
            location
        *  the make-up flow rate of a C3-rich stream
        *  the purge/vent rate of a N2-rich stream
        *  the purge/vent rate of a C1-rich stream from a first location in the MR loop 200
20      *  the purge/vent rate of a C1-rich stream from a second location in the MR loop
            200
        *  the purge/vent rate of a C2-rich stream
        *  the purge/vent rate of a C3-rich stream
   Figure 7 shows a very simplified example of control matrix 50' for a prior art controller
25 of a MR loop in an LNG liquefaction plant. Here the control variables CV1-CV4 are
   simply the percent of N2, C1, C2, and C3+ respectively in the MR inventory. For
   simplicity only four manipulated variables MV1-MV4 are shown, these being the make
   up or purge rates of N2-rich, C1-rich, C2-rich, and C3-richstreams respectively. (The
   locations of these streams would be well known to an experienced practitioner of the
30 art.) Two disturbance variables DV1 and DV2 are shown.

                                               - 20
    In Figure 7 each of the MVs is shown as two alternatives, namely a make-up or a
   purge. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that a MV in relation to any
   specific variable will be a make-up, a purge or of course "no change". The "no change"
   is not shown as this is manifested by the deviation determined at comparator 18 and
 5 the set point being zero. Figure 7 is intended to depict that at any particular instant a
   specific MV will be in either a make-up, purge or "no-change" mode and not that a
   specific MV will be simultaneously in both make-up and purge mode in response to the
   same CV. This is a 100% dense matrix in which every MV and DV can have an effect
   on every CV.
10  Figure 8 in contrast shows a simplified control matrix 150' that may be utilised in an
   embodiment of the disclosed method and system 100 for controlling refrigerant in a MR
   loop 200 of an LNG liquefaction plant. It will be seen that the matrix of Figure 8 is not
    100% dense. This graphically illustrates an advantage or benefit of the embodiments of
   the disclosed method and system in simplifying the overall automated control of a
15 dynamic continuous process in which the effect of various disturbances while being
   allowed to affect the process are negated in terms of their effect on the output of the
   controller 14. In this way it is possible to mask the effect of user selectable
   disturbances. This is particularly beneficial when it is known that various disturbances
   while giving an appearance of requiring remedial action can be disregarded. An
20 example of this in the MR loop 200 is the effect of "slosh" of the refrigerant on the liquid
   level in the MR accumulator 214 ("slosh" being a variation in level associated with
   migration of MR inventory between the MCHE and the accumulator, but not moving
   into or out of the circuit.)
   As per Figure 7, each of the MVs in Figure 8 is shown as two alternatives, namely a
25 make-up or a purge, with the "no-change" not specifically represented as it arises form
   a zero deviation at the comparator 18.
   The controlled variables CV in this embodiment are as mentioned above:
   (a)      a molar percentage of N2 in the MR at the high pressure end of the
   compression stage 210 ("CV1");
30 (b)      pressure in the MR accumulator 214 ("CV2");

                                              - 21
   (c)      a molar ratio C3/C2 at a high pressure end of the MR compression stage 210
   ("CV3"),
   (d)      liquid level within the MR accumulator ("CV4").
   However the controlled variable CV4 is in this example provided in both a non
 5 compensated and compensated form. This arises due to the critical nature of the liquid
   level within the MR accumulator 214. The compensated controlled variable CV4' is
   always applied to the control matrix and accordingly results in the masking variations in
   liquid level that would normally arise through variations in the circulation of the
   refrigerant through the MR loop 200 from the controller. However in extreme situations
10 where the uncompensated level movements are sufficiently large the uncompensated
   level CV5 may be selected as the appropriate input to the control matrix 150' so that
   the controller generates an appropriate response via one or more of the manipulated
   variables.
   Notwithstanding the above description of the prior art and specific embodiments of the
15 disclosed system and method, in order to aid the reader in understanding differences
   between: the disclosed method and system; and, conventional prior art control
   techniques, a further example is provided.
   Consider in a vehicle travelling along a road a vessel containing a liquid level which is
   to be maintained at a desired inventory. Several streams can be independently drawn
20 from the vessel. The liquid level is measured and used to adjust a make-up and purge
   valve. These valves are controlled to add or purge liquid to or from the vessel and thus
   maintain the liquid level. This is classic feedback control (shown in Fig 1) and key to
   this is the underlying assumption that maintaining the level also maintains the desired
   inventory.
25 The liquid level in the vessel is subject to various disturbances. As the car travels
   along the road, bumps in the road will create ripples in the level signal. These can be
   reduced by filtering the level signal before the controller acts on it which is a standard
   practice. The filter constant is adjusted to best suit the frequency of the disturbance,
   and could be tuned to e.g. pot-holes, but might not work as well when the vehicle
30 traverses speed humps.

                                               - 22
   As the demand flows drawn from the vessel vary, it is possible to measure these
   changes in out-flow and have an additional controller see this independently of the
   level signal and directly adjust the in-flow (make-up) in parallel with the feedback
   control before the level changes - this is classical feed-forward/feed-back control, also
 5 standard practice and prior art.
   Unless the vessel is supported by some sort of gimbal arrangement, as the vehicle
   goes up and down hills the vessel will tilt forward or backward relative to horizontal,
   and this has the capacity to alter the level reading, depending on the geometry.
   However if the sense point is located at the centre of rotation (pitch) then the level will
10 not be affected - this disturbance is "designed out" by the hardware - again a standard
   practice where possible. This would also compensate for (reject) effects of
   acceleration or deceleration in a straight line.
   But consider the case where the vehicle is travelling around a large traffic circle
   (roundabout). In this case the acceleration will result in a sustained level change as
15 inertia forces liquid to one side. In this case it is not desirable to reduce the make-up or
   purge because once the vehicle continues in a straight line the inertial effects will
   vanish and the level will suddenly be too low. Embodiments of the disclosed method
   and system would create a new signal which when added to the "raw" level signal
   would cancel out the change in level associated with the inertial forces. The feedback
20 controller would have no need to act on this disturbance and would not alter the make
   up. The real change in level is allowed to happen but ignored for the duration of the
   measured disturbance because the underlying inferred variable (the inventory in the
   vessel) is in fact unchanged.
   This is distinctly different from prior art which is concerned with sophisticated ways of
25 ensuring a (raw) measurement is maintained at a pre-determined position. But this is
   also selective as ripples would still continue to be filtered out and demand-side
   changes would still receive feed-forward compensation. It is also distinct to other prior
   art where a first measurement (e.g. a gas flow) always receives input from a second
   measurement (e.g. a pressure) to create a compensated flow with is then the
30 "controlled" variable.
   The above Background Art describes, in the context of MR refrigerant inventory
   control, the difficulties associated with trying to calculate the underlying composition

                                              - 23
   and inventory variables in the mixed refrigeration circuit, which are physically
   impossible to directly "measure" in this case.
   From the above description should be readily apparent that the disclosed system and
   method may be applied in a general sense to the control of any continuous process
 5 and is not limited in application to refrigerant control in a LNG liquefaction plant.
   In the claims which follow, and in the preceding description, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   'comprise" and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
10 presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the system and
   method as disclosed herein.

                                           - 24
   CLAIMS
      1. A method of operating a controller of a continuous process the controller
         having: as inputs one or more measured control variables (CV) being indicative
 5       of a characteristic of the process or an associated process stream arising from
         the process; and as outputs, signals to vary one or more manipulated variables
         (MV) that affect the process; the method comprising:
                  modifying the one or more CV prior to input to the controller to at least
         partially mask an effect of a disturbance on the process or the process stream
10       such that the controller at least partially reduces its adjustment of an MV in
         response to the partially masked disturbance.
      2. The method according to claim 1 comprising modifying the CV prior to input to
         the controller to fully mask the effect of the disturbance wherein the controller
15       makes no change to the MV in response to the effect of that disturbance on the
         process or process stream.
      3. The method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the modifying comprises:
         allowing a disturbance to affect the process or the process stream, measuring
20       the at least one CV subsequent to the effect of the disturbance and producing a
         compensated control variable CV' by adjusting the at least one measured CV to
         substantially cancel the effect of the disturbance on the at least one measured
         CV.
25    4. The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
         disturbance comprises one or both of: a load on the process; and, a variation in
         the process or process stream arising from modification of a MV.
      5. The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the process
30       is a refrigerant control process in a mixed refrigerant (MR) loop of a LNG
         liquefaction plant, the MR loop having a mixed refrigerant compression stage
         and a MR accumulator through which the mixed refrigerant flows and wherein
         the mixed refrigerant comprises a mixture of components in liquid phase,

                                        - 25
       vapour phase or both liquid and vapour phases, the components including N2,
       C1, C2, and C3+; and
       wherein the one or more CV comprise one or a combination two or more of:
       (a) a molar percentage of N2 in the MR at the high pressure end of the
 5         compression stage ("CV1");
       (b) pressure in the MR accumulator ("CV2");
       (c) a molar ratio C3/C2 at a high pressure end of the compression stage
            ("CV3"),
       (d) liquid level within the MR accumulator ("CV4").
10
   6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the disturbance is one or a plurality of
       disturbances.
   7. The method according to claim 6 wherein one disturbance comprises a change
15     in rate of the process.
   8. The method according to claim 6 or 7 wherein another disturbance comprises a
       change in ambient temperature.
20 9. The method according to any one of claims 5-8 wherein one or more of the
       control variables CV1-CV3 is compensated to produce corresponding
       compensated control variables CV1'-CV3' in which compensation is applied to
       mask the effect on the control variable CV1-CV3 of circulation through the MR
       loop.
25
   10. The method according to any one of claims 5-9 wherein the control variable
       CV4 is compensated to produce a compensated liquid level control variable
       CV4' and wherein one or both of CV4 and CV4' are used as inputs to the
       controller.
30
   11. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 10 wherein a first of the one or
       more manipulated variables MV1 is a flow rate of an N2-rich stream added to or
       purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is arranged to

                                        - 26
       add or purge an N2-rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant when CV1' is
       outside of prescribed limits.
   12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the controller is arranged to add or
 5     purge an N2-rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant loop when CV2' is
       outside of prescribed limits.
   13. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 9 wherein a first of the one or
       more manipulated variables (MV1) is a flow rate of an N2-rich stream added to
10     or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is arranged
       to purge or add an N2 rich stream to the mixed refrigerant when CV2' is outside
       of prescribed limits.
   14. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 12 wherein a second of the
15     one or more manipulated variables (MV2) is a flow rate of a C1 rich stream
       added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is
       arranged to purge or add the C1 rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant
       loop when CV2' is outside of prescribed limits.
20 15. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 14 wherein a third of the one or
       more of the manipulated variables (MV3) is a flow rate of a C2 rich stream
       added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is
       arranged to purge or add the C2 rich stream to the mixed refrigerant when CV3'
       is outside of prescribed limits.
25
   16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the controller is arranged to add or
       purge the C2 rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant when CV4' is outside
       of prescribed limits.
30 17. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 14 wherein a third of the one or
       more manipulated variable (MV3) is a flow rate of a C2 rich stream added to or
       purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is arranged to
       purge or add C2 to the mixed refrigerant when CV4' is outside of prescribed
       limits.

                                         - 27
   18. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 17 wherein a fourth of the one
       or more of the manipulated variables (MV4) is a flow rate of a C3 rich stream
       added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is
 5     arranged to purge or add the C3 rich stream to the mixed refrigerant when CV3'
       is outside of prescribed limits.
   19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the controller is arranged to add or
       purge the C3 rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant when CV4' is outside
10     of prescribed limits.
   20. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 17 wherein another of the
       manipulated variables (MV3) is a flow rate of a C2 rich steam added to or
       purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the controller is arranged to
15     purge or add the C2 rich stream to or from the mixed refrigerant when CV4' is
       outside of prescribed limits.
   21. The method according to any one of claims 5 to 15 or 20 wherein a fourth of the
       one or more of the manipulated variables (MV4) is a flow rate of a C3 rich
20     steam added to or purged from the mixed refrigerant loop and wherein the
       controller is arranged to purge or add C3 to the mixed refrigerant when CV4' is
       outside of prescribed limits.
   22. The method according to any one of claims 1-21 wherein the modifying of the
25     one or more CV prior to input to the controller is applied to some but not all of
       the disturbances.
   23. A method of controlling a mixed refrigerant (MR) loop in a LNG liquefaction
       plant, the MR loop having a main cryogenic heat exchanger (MCHE), a mixed
30     refrigerant compression stage and a MR accumulator through which the mixed
       refrigerant flows, the mixed refrigerant comprising a mixture of components in
       liquid, vapour or both liquid and vapour phases, the components including N2,
       C1, C2, and C3+, the method comprising :
            measuring liquid level within the MR accumulator;

                                          - 28
            measuring other characteristics of the mixed refrigerant at various points in
       the MR loop;
            compensating the measured other characteristics that are subject to
       variation due solely to of circulation of the MR through the MR loop;
 5          using the compensated other characteristics and the actual measured
       liquid level as control variables in control matrix for an automatic process
       controller (APC);
            arranging the APC to operate in accordance with the control matrix to add
       or purge one or more of the components to maintain the MR within prescribed
10     parameters.
   24. The method according to claim 23 wherein measuring other characteristics
       comprises measuring a molar ratio C3/C2 at a high pressure end of the
       compression stage.
15
   25. The method according to claim 23 or 24 wherein measuring other
       characteristics comprises measuring a molar percentage of N2 in the MR at a
       or the high pressure end of the compression stage.
20 26. The method according to any one of claims 23 to 25 wherein measuring other
       characteristics comprises measuring pressure in the MR accumulator.
   27. The method according to claim 26 wherein arranging the APC to operate in
       accordance with the control matrix comprises arranging the APC to add or
25     purge one or both of a N2 rich stream and a C1 rich stream to maintain the MR
       within the prescribed parameters when the compensated pressure is outside of
       prescribed limits.
   28. The method according to claim 25 to 27 wherein arranging the APC to operate
30     in accordance with the control matrix comprises arranging the APC to add or
       purge a N2 rich stream to maintain the MR within the prescribed parameters
       when the compensated molar percentage of N2 is outside of prescribed limits.

                                          - 29
   29. The method according to any one of claims 23 to 28 wherein arranging the
       APC to operate in accordance with the control matrix comprises arranging the
       APC to add or purge one or both of a C2 rich stream and a C3 rich stream to
       maintain the MR within the prescribed parameters when the compensated
 5     molar ratio of C3/C2 is outside of prescribed limits.
   30. The method according to any one of claims 23 to 29 wherein arranging the
       APC to operate in accordance with the control matrix comprises arranging the
       APC to add or purge one or both of a C2 rich stream and a C3 rich stream to
10     maintain the MR within the prescribed parameters when the measured liquid
       level within the MR accumulator is outside of prescribed limits.
   31. A method of operating a controller of a continuous process, the controller being
       responsive to a control matrix, the control matrix having: as inputs one or more
15     measured control variables (CV) being indicative of a characteristic of the
       process or an associated process stream arising from the process; and as
       outputs, signals from the controller to vary one or more manipulated variables
       (MV) that affect the process; the method comprising:
       modifying the one or more CV prior to input to the control matrix to mask from
20     the control matrix at least a part of the effect of a disturbance on the process or
       the process stream such that the controller does not vary an MV in response to
       that disturbance.
   32. A method of controlling a continuous process which results in a process
25     stream, the process or the process stream being dependent on one or more
       independent variables, the process also having a process controller operable to
       vary one more manipulated variables (MV) dependent on at least one
       measured controlled variable CV which is indicative of a characteristic of the
       process or the process stream, the method comprising:
30     allowing the one or more independent variables to affect the process;
       measuring the at least one CV subsequent to the effect of the selected
       independent variables;

                                   - 30
  modifying the measured at least one CV to compensate for the effect on the
  process or process stream of the selected independent variable to produce a
  modified control variable CV';
  using the modified control variable CV' as an input to the controller wherein the
5 applied compensation masks from the controller the effect of the selected
  independent variable on the CV.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

            <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                      #
$
                                        2/7
    "
        "         #
            !

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 ##
$
                               3/7
                  #
                      %
                          #
     !

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        &
    &
                                                4/7
                 &
             '
&
            &'

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

