ABSTRACT
Emotional composition characterised in that it comprises:
          (a) resin; and
          (b) a biological sample from a subject, wherein said biological sample is dry.

                     EMOTIONAL COMPOSITION COMPRISING RESIN
   [0001] The present invention relates to a composition comprising resin and a sample
          of biological material of human, animal or vegetable origin, alive or dead.
 5        Moreover, the      invention  relates   to the    use of    said composition    for
          manufacturing a reliquary.
   [0002] The purpose of the composition of the invention is to create an emotional bond
          between an object comprising said composition and the user who acquires it.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0003] Currently, there are different products designed for paying tribute and
          remembering living beings, either persons or pets, especially when they have
          passed away. Said products are traditionally created using hair, teeth and other
15        parts or tissues of the loved one that is to be remembered.
   [0004] However, thus far no compositions have been developed the basis whereof is
          the "essence" of the loved one in different forms or presentations.
20 DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0005] The present invention provides a composition characterised in that it comprises
          a mixture of at least one resin and a biological sample from a subject, alive or
          dead, wherein said biological sample is dry. The purpose of said composition is
25        to manufacture an object or a reliquary.
   [0006] The gained advantage of using the emotional composition of the present
          invention as compared to the rest of the compositions described in the prior art
          are  its customisability and the homogeneous           appearance of both the
30        composition and the object formed from said composition, including by means
          of compression. Another advantage is the preservation of the biological
          material from the subject, alive or dead, that is part of the composition, thereby
          generating an emotional bond between the aforementioned subject and the
          person who wears or owns said emotional composition.
35
                                                1

   [0007] Therefore, a first aspect of the invention relates to an emotional composition
          characterised in that it comprises:
          a resin; and
          a biological sample from a subject, wherein said biological sample is dry.
 5
   [0008] In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the subject is a live subject.
   [0009] In another preferred embodiment of the invention, the subject is a dead or
          deceased subject.
10
   [0010] In a preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in that
          the resin has a particle size of less than 0.02 millimetres and/or the biological
          sample has a particle size of less than 0.02 mm; this preferred embodiment is
          suitable for obtaining a suitable composition with optimal particle sizes to be
15        used as a 3D printer ink, since, with these particle sizes, the emotional
          composition is optimised for extrusion at pressures of 4 bars from the
          pressurised chamber of a 3D printer.
   [0011] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
20        that the resin is selected from the         list that comprises: epoxy resin,
          photosensitive resin and any combination thereof.
   [0012] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the biological sample is selected from the list that comprises: micronised
25        hair, micronised tissue, micronised cornea, tissue from micronised cornea,
          micronised nails, micronised teeth, lyophilised DNA-silica and non-lyophilised
          DNA, or combinations thereof.
   [0013] In a more preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
30        that the biological sample is micronised hair.
   [0014] In another, more preferred        embodiment,     the emotional    composition is
          characterised in that the biological sample is lyophilised DNA-silica.
35 [0015] In another, more preferred        embodiment,     the emotional    composition is
          characterised in that the biological sample is non-lyophilised DNA.
                                                2

   [0016] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the weight percentage of the resin ranges between 90% and 95% with
          respect to the final composition.
 5 [0017] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the weight percentage of the biological sample ranges between 5% and
          10% with respect to the final composition.
   [0018] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
10        that said dead subject is a human being or an animal.
   [0019] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that this composition is in solid form.
15 [0020] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is in solid form
          and further comprises an outer layer (c) of glaze, wherein said outer layer of
          glaze is suitable for using the composition as a ceramic element or figure, or a
          three-dimensional figure or element obtained by means of 3D printing. This
          glaze is added in order for the pores generated during said baking process to
20        be occluded with said glaze, which provides uniformity and rigidity to the final
          ceramic element or figure, or the three-dimensional figure or element obtained
          by means of 3D printing. This glaze is added following baking of the emotional
          composition in a conventional oven at a temperature ranging between 8000C
          and 9000C, and prior to a second baking in a conventional oven at a
25        temperature ranging between 10000C and 10600C.
   [0021] In a more preferred embodiment of the composition, wherein the layer of glaze
          is a resin selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or
          any combination thereof.
30
   [0022] Another aspect of the present invention is the use of the composition described
          as ink for a 3D printer, in order to obtain a three-dimensional element or figure.
          Preferably, the three-dimensional element or figure is a reliquary.
35 [0023] Another aspect of the present invention is the use of the composition described
          as an element or figure for manufacturing a reliquary.
                                                3

   [0024] A preferred embodiment         is the use wherein     the already-glazed three
          dimensional element or figure,        or ceramic figure, is mounted       on the
          corresponding supports.
 5 [0025] In the present invention, "emotional composition" is understood to mean any
          composition that comprises an isolated biological sample from a living or dead
          (deceased) subject.
   [0026] In the present invention, "biological sample" is understood to mean any wet or
10        dry biological material sample obtained from limbs or parts of limbs, tissues,
          hair, nails, teeth, DNA or lyophilised DNA, of any human being or animal, or
          vegetable material, wherein said human, animal or vegetable may be alive or
          dead. This biological sample is dry and is ground to a micrometric size. This
          micronisation may be performed by means of a cryogenic mill; this process is
15        advantageous since, given the organic characteristics of the sample, it is an
          affordable, profitable way to obtain the base of the composition of the invention
          and the final object with suitable characteristics in terms of size and
          appearance.
20 [0027] In the present invention, "subject" is understood to mean a human being, an
          animal or a vegetable.
   [0028] In the present invention, "lyophilised DNA-silica" is understood to mean any
          biological sample wherefrom the DNA is extracted by means of techniques
25        known to persons skilled in the art, and which is subsequently subjected to a
          process of lyophilisation in silica.
   [0029] Throughout the description and the claims, the word "comprises" and variants
          thereof are not intended to exclude other technical characteristics, additives,
30        components or steps. For persons skilled in the art, other objects, advantages
          and characteristics of the invention will arise, partly from the description and
          partly from the implementation of the invention. The following examples and
          figures are provided for illustrative purposes, and are not intended to limit the
          scope of the present invention.
35
                                                4

   PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
   [0030] Below we provide a detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the
 5        object of the present invention.
   [0031] Preparation of a figure made of resin and micronised hair obtained by means of
          3D printing.
10 [0032] In order for the composition to have a suitable consistency, 30 g of epoxy resin
          must be mixed with alcohol in an approximate proportion of 5%, in order to
          obtain a suitable plastic texture for the additive manufacturing process. This
          texture in neither too dense nor too liquid. This mixture is introduced into a
          tube.
15
   [0033] On the other hand, the micronised hair is introduced into an ancillary tube in a
          proportion of 10% of the total composition. The resin and the hair are
          introduced into the syringe designed for this purpose and both components are
          mixed using a blender.
20
   [0034] Subsequently, the mixture of hair and resin is introduced into the tube in order
          to perform the printing, and the piece is made on the corresponding glass base.
          Once the printing is completed, the piece is allowed to dry for approximately 8
          12 h.
25
   [0035] Finally, the final piece is crimped on the corresponding supports according to
          the selected design.
                                               5

                                         CLAIMS
   1. Emotional composition characterised in that it comprises:
              (a) resin; and
 5            (b) a biological sample from a subject, wherein said biological sample is
                  dry.
   2. Composition according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a live subject.
10 3. Composition according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a dead subject.
   4. Composition according to any of claims 1 or 2, wherein the resin is selected from
   epoxy resin or photosensitive resin.
15 5. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the biological sample is
   selected from the list that comprises: micronised hair, micronised tissue, micronised
   cornea, tissue from micronised cornea, micronised nails, micronised teeth, lyophilised
   DNA-silica, non-lyophilised DNA, tissue of vegetable origin and combinations thereof.
20 6. Composition according to claim 5, wherein the biological sample is micronised hair.
   7. Composition according to claim 5, wherein the biological sample is lyophilised DNA
   silica.
25 8. Composition according to claim 5, wherein the biological sample is non-lyophilised
   DNA.
   9. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the weight percentage of the
   resin ranges between 90% and 95% by weight with respect to the final composition.
30
   10. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the weight percentage of
   the biological sample ranges between 5% and 10% with respect to the final
   composition.
35 11. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the subject is a human
   being or an animal.

   12. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 11, wherein said composition is baked,
   is in solid form and further comprises an outer layer of glaze.
   13. Composition according to claim 12, wherein the layer of glaze is a resin selected
 5 from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or any combination thereof.
   14. Element or figure that comprises a composition according to any of claims 1 to 13.
   15. Element or figure that comprises a composition according to any of claims 12 or
10 13, and which is crimped on a support.
   16. Element or figure according to any of claims 14 or 15, wherein the element or
   figure is three-dimensional.
15 17. Use of the composition according to any of claims 1 to 13, in order to manufacture
   a reliquary.
   18. Use of the composition according to any of claims 1 to 11 as ink for a 3D printer, in
   order to obtain a three-dimensional element or figure.
20
   19. Use according to claim 18, wherein the three-dimensional element or figure is a
   reliquary.
   20. Use according to claim 18, wherein the already-glazed three-dimensional element
25 or figure is crimped on the corresponding supports.
                                                7

