                                              ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a composition for use in controlling surface-inhabiting pests in an
aquatic system, the composition comprises at least one water disinfectant being an active agent
releasing compound and at least one floating agent. The composition is useful for treating the
aquatic systems to reduce, inhibit or eliminate said pest growth in the aquatic system.

WO 2015/001563                                                                PCT/IL2014/050602
                 A METHOD OF CONTROLLING WATER SURFACE INHABITING PESTS
   TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
           The present invention is in the field of water disinfection.
   PRIOR ART
           References considered to be relevant as background to the presently disclosed
   subject matter are listed below:
           -  Berg,K.A., Lyra,C., Sivonen,K., Paulin,L., Suomalainen,S., Tuomi,P., and
              Rapala,J. (2008) High diversity of cultivable heterotrophic bacteria in
              association with cyanobacterial water blooms. ISME J 3: 314-325.
           -  Broza,M. and Halpern,M. (2001) Chironomid egg masses and Vibrio
              cholerae.Nature 412: 40.
           -  Deng L. and Hayes P.K. (2008) Evidence for cyanophages active against
              bloom-forming fresh water cyanobactera. Fresh Water Biology 53: 1240
               1252.
           -  Di Domenico,D., Ruggeri,L., and Trentini,M. (2006) The use of sodium
              hypochlorite as ovicide against Aedes albopictus. Journalof the American
              Mosquito ControlAssociation 22: 346-348.
           -  Drabkova,M.,      Marsalek,B.,    and Admiraal,W.       (2007)  Photodynamic
              therapy against cyanobacteria. Environ Toxicol 22: 112-115.
           -  Eiler,A. and Bertilsson,S. (2004) Composition of freshwater bacterial
              communities associated with cyanobacterial blooms in four Swedish lakes.
              EnvironmentalMicrobiology 6: 1228-1243.
           -  Falconer,I.R., Beresford,A.M.,     and Runnegar,M.T. (1983)       Evidence of
              liver damage by toxin from a bloom of the blue-green alga, Microcystis
              aeruginosa.The Medical Journalof Australia 1: 511.
           -  Gardes,A.,    Iversen,M.H.,   Grossart,H.P.,   Passow,U.,    and Ullrich,M.S.
              (2010)    Diatom-associated     bacteria  are  required   for  aggregation of
              Thalassiosira weissflogii. ISME J
           -  Hatchett,S.P. (1946) Chlorine as a possible ovicide for Aedes aegypti eggs.
              Public Health Reports (1896-1970) 61: 683-685.

WO 2015/001563                                                                 PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               -2
          -   Hullebusch,E.V.,     Deluchat,V.,    Chazal,P.M.,    and    Baudu,M.      (2002)
              Environmental impact of two successive chemical treatments in a small
              shallow eutrophied lake: Part II. Case of copper sulfate. Environmental
             Pollution 120: 627-634.
          -   Iredale,R.S.,  McDonald,A.T.,       and Adams,D.G.      (2012) A       series of
              experiments aimed at clarifying the mode of action of barley straw in
              cyanobacterial growth control. Water Research 46: 6095-6103.
          -  Jacups,S.P., Ball,T.S., Paton,C.J., Johnson,P.H., and Ritchie,S.A. (2013)
              Operational use of household bleach to "crash and release" Aedes aegypti
             prior   to   Wolbachia-infected mosquito       release.   Journal of Medical
             Entomology 50: 344-351.
          -  Jones,B.E.,    Grant,W.D.,    Duckworth,A.W.,      and Owenson,G.G.        (1998)
              Microbial diversity of soda lakes. Extremophiles 2: 191-200.
          -   Kaplan,A.,    Harel,M.,   Kaplan-Levy,R.N.,     Hadas,O.,      Sukenik,A.,   and
              Dittmann,E. (2012) The languages spoken in the water body (or the
              biological role of cyanobacterial toxins). Frontiersin Microbiology 3.
          -   Kolmakov,V.I. (2006) Methods for prevention of mass development of the
              cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa Kutz emend. Elenk. in aquatic
              systems. Microbiology 75: 115-118.
          -   Matthijs H.C.P., Visser P.M., Reeze B., Meeuse J., Slot P.C., Wijn G.,
              Talens    R.,  Huisman    J.  (2012)    Selective   suppression      of harmful
              cyanobacteria in an entire lake with hydrogen peroxide. Water Research
              46: 1460-1472.
          -   Sigee,D. (2005) Biodiversity and Dynamic Interactions of Microorganisms
              in the Aquatic Environment. In FreshwaterMicrobiology. Chichester, UK:
             John Wiley & Sons, pp. 328-338.
          -   Swaen,G.M., van Vliet,C., Slangen,J.J., and Sturmans,F. (1992) Cancer
              mortality among licensed herbicide applicators. Scandinavianjournal of
              work, environment & health 18: 201-204.
          -   Xiao,X., Huang,H., Ge,Z., Rounge,T.B., Shi,J., Xu,X. et al. (2014) A pair
              of chiral flavonolignans     as novel anti-cyanobacterial        allelochemicals
              derived   from barley straw      (Hordeum vulgare): characterization         and
              comparison     of   their   anti-cyanobacterial    activities.   Environmental
             Microbiology 16: 1238-1251.

WO 2015/001563                                                                 PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                -3
        Acknowledgement of the above references herein is not to be inferred as meaning
   that these are in any way relevant to the patentability of the presently disclosed
   subject matter.
   BACKGROUND
       Photosynthetic microorganisms tend to form seasonal blooms in water bodies such
   as ponds, lakes, wastewater reservoirs and oceans. These blooms are defined by a
   massive increase in cell-number that can reach to up to 106-107 cells/mi and over than
   50pg/l chlorophyll-a. The phenomenon can be apparent to naked eye when water
   turns   dark-green,    red   or  brown.   Although      the   bloom  consists   mainly of
   microorganisms capable to convert light energy via photosynthesis, it also coexists
   with a variety of many other microorganisms that support the entire community
   (Gardes et al., 2010). In some cases due to biotic and abiotic conditions, some of the
   species, namely blue-green algae, better known as cyanobacteria, use their gas
   vesicles to position themselves on water surface to form biofilms (also described as
   scums or mats). Cyanobacteria are a diverse group of oxygenic photosynthetic
   prokaryotes that possesses a versatile physiological and wide ecological tolerance,
   which    contributes    to their   competitive    success    over  a  broad   spectrum of
   environments. For more than 40 years the abundance of these organisms intensified
   globally in lakes, reservoirs, rivers and brackish water environments. Their blooms
   produce a musty odor and, more seriously, toxins. Cyanobacterial harmful algal
   blooms (CHABs) indicate an alert situation to water authorities, environmental and
   health agencies, as they reflect eutrophication problems as well as secretion of a huge
   array of metabolites, some of them most toxic to eukaryotes (Kaplan et al., 2012).
       Several means for treating algal blooms are presently employed, e.g. a sequential
   treatment with aluminum sulfate (A12 (SO 4 )3 ) and copper sulfate (Hullebusch et al.
   2002), peroxides (Drabkova et al., 2007), or herbicides (i.e. diuron, simazine,
   atrazine).  However,     these treatments    are associated     with grave environmental
   consequences (Falconer et al., 1983; Kolmakov, 2006; Swaen et al., 1992), and are
   also   expensive    (treatment    with  A12 (SO 4 )3  is   estimated  at  US$750,000    to
   US$1,000,000 per sq km).
           Accordingly, the available treatments are mostly used in artificial small ponds,
   pools and small shallow lakes where the ecological aspect of overdosing is not

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               -4
   crucial. These treatments are not adequate for large water bodies, nor are they suitable
   for repeated use due to toxicity and ecological impact, their relatively high cost and
   the requirement for very large inputs for their uniform dispersal.
           Another means for preventing CHABs is dumping barley or rice straw into
   aquatic ecosystems, though the effect was not consistent (Iredale et al., 2012). A
   recent discovery of their active compounds (flavonolignans salcolin A and B) (Xiao et
   al., 2014) demonstrated their lytic efficacy over Microcystis aeruginosa. However,
   these active compounds are not commercially available and are yet to obtain the
   required environmental and regulatory clearances.
        Cyanophages,      lytic viruses  that   specifically attack   cyanobacteria,    were
   hypothetically suggested, but were never practically identified or used (Deng and
   Hayess, 2008).
        Matthijs et al., (2012) used a dispersal device and treated the whole volume of a
   shallow 0.12 sq km lake with -60 pM liquid H 20 2 . The procedure was expensive due
   to the high cost of the device, time consuming and risky due to the use of liquid
   hydrogen peroxide. Also, the chemical was recorded in the water two days post
   treatment. Moreover, frequent exposure to H 2 0 2 in large scale areas and at high
   frequencies may induce cyanobacterial resistance to the compound in the long run.
        Chironomids (Diptera; Chironomidae; Chironomus) are the most abundant species
   of insects in freshwater worldwide. They undergo a complete metamorphosis in four
   life stages; three are aquatic (eggs, larvae, pupae) and the last is the terrestrial adult
   stage. Females lay egg-masses (of 400-1,000 eggs) embedded in a thick gelatinous
   matrix on the edge of water bodies.
        The Chironomids (also known as non-biting midges) cause severe ecological and
   economical nuisance. Massive swarms of adult Chironomids emerging from aquatic
   habitats near, or in urban areas affect tourism and real estate value and are associated
   with human allergic reactions. As larvae they clog water pipes and may reach the
   water supply systems of home-users ("red worms"). Furthermore, Chironomids'
   gelatinous egg-mass is reported to serve as a natural reservoir of Vibrio cholera
   (Broza and Halpern (2001)). Currently, the efforts to prevent cholera rely on a
   combination of sanitary hygienic measures. Pesticides, which are used against the
   chironomids' larvae, have limited success since in a chronic use, the midges were
   found to adjust and become resistant. Moreover, pesticides have a broad specificity
   and may harm the environment, including humans.

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               -5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is based on the surprising finding that buoyant
   formulations of various bleaching agents are effective in reducing cyanobacterial
   population in treated water. Furthermore, the formulations have shown efficacy as
   ovicides of marine insects, dramatically reducing the number of healthy larvae
   hatching from the eggs.
           Accordingly, the present invention provides in a first of its aspects a method
   for controlling surface-inhabiting pests in an aquatic system, the method comprising:
           a.  Obtaining a composition comprising at least one water disinfectant being
               an active agent releasing compound and at least one floating agent; and
           b.  treating the aquatic system with the composition under conditions that
               cause reduction, inhibition or elimination of said pest growth in the aquatic
               system.
           In one embodiment, said at least one water disinfectant is an oxidizing water
   disinfectant.
           In one embodiment, the at least one water disinfectant is selected from the
   group consisting of a chlorine releasing agent, a bromine-releasing agent, a peroxide
   based compound, a copper salt, an aluminum salt, and any combination thereof.
           In a specific embodiment, the water disinfectant is Calcium hypochlorite
   (Ca(OCl) 2 ) or Sodium dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC).
           In one embodiment, the floating agent is selected from the group consisting of
   cellulose   derivatives,  ground plant    biomass,   saturated  hydrocarbons,    resinous
   materials, foam, and natural or synthetic latex.
           In a specific embodiment, the floating agent is wood dust.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is paraffin.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is rosin.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is extruded or expanded
   polystyrene foam.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is silicone foam.
           In certain embodiments, the amount of the at least one water disinfectant is
   about 10% weight/weight (w/w), or about 20% w/w, or about 30% w/w, or about 40%
   w/w, or about 50% w/w or higher of the composition.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                 -6
           In certain embodiments, the composition is in the form of particles, granules,
   flakes, powder, pellets, pills, solution or a combination thereof.
           In one embodiment, said pest growth is selected from the group consisting of
   cyanobacterial growth, algal growth, microbial growth, plankton growth, and water
   surface inhabiting insects.
           In one embodiment, the treating step follows detection of a harmful algal
   bloom in the aquatic system.
           In a specific embodiment, the treating is performed at the beginning of the
   bloom episode.
           In another embodiment, the treating step is performed upon detection of said
   pest growth.
           In   a specific  embodiment,      said   pest is cyanobacteria and said water
                                                                               2
   disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about 0.005 g/m    and about
   50 g/m 2 , or between about 0.5ppm and about 50ppm of the active agent.
           In one embodiment, said treatment results in trace amounts of the active
   compound as measured in the water 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 24 hours or
   more after each treatment.
           In a specific embodiment, said trace amounts of the active compound do not
   exceed 3ppm, as measured 24 hours or more after each treatment.
           In another embodiment, said pest is water surface inhabiting insects and said
   disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about 50ppm and about
   1000ppm.
           In a specific embodiment, said surface inhabiting insects are Culex sp., Aedes
   sp., Anopheles sp. or Chironomidaesp.s.
           In certain embodiments, said disinfectant acts as an ovicide.
           In one embodiment, said treating step comprises single, dual or multiple
   administrations of the water disinfectant.
           In certain embodiments, the treating step is performed three times a day, or
   twice a day, or once a day, or once a week, or once every two weeks, or once every
   three weeks, or once a month or at longer intervals.
           In a specific embodiment, the treating step is performed once a day or twice a
   day for a period of 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days or more.
           In one embodiment, the dual or multiple administrations are with the same or
   with different disinfectants.

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                 -7
           In certain embodiments, the treatment is performed by manual or mechanical
   dusters or by spreading a liquid solution, e.g. from a boat or a plane.
           In another aspect, the present invention provides a composition for use in
   controlling surface-inhabiting pests in an aquatic system, the composition comprising
   at least one water disinfectant being an active agent releasing compound and at least
   one floating agent.
           In one embodiment, said at least one water disinfectant is an oxidizing water
   disinfectant.
           In one embodiment, the at least one water disinfectant is selected from the
   group consisting of a chlorine releasing agent, a bromine-releasing agent, a peroxide
   based compound, a copper salt, an aluminum salt, and any combination thereof.
           In a specific embodiment, the water disinfectant is Calcium hypochlorite or
   NaDCC.
           In one embodiment, the floating agent is selected from the group consisting of
   cellulose   derivatives,  ground plant      biomass, saturated   hydrocarbons,  resinous
   materials, foam, and natural or synthetic latex.
           In a specific embodiment, the floating agent is wood dust.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is paraffin.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is rosin.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is extruded or expanded
   polystyrene foam.
           In another specific embodiment, the floating agent is silicone foam.
           In certain embodiments, the amount of the at least one water disinfectant is
   about 10% w/w, or about 20% w/w, or about 30% w/w, or about 40% w/w, or about
   50% w/w or higher of the total composition.
           In certain embodiments, the composition is in the form of particles, granules,
   flakes, powder, pellets, pills or a solution.
           In one embodiment, said pest growth is selected from the group consisting of
   cyanobacterial growth, algal growth, microbial growth, plankton growth, and water
   surface inhabiting insects.
           In one embodiment, the composition is administered following detection of a
   harmful algal bloom in the aquatic system.
           In a specific embodiment, the composition is administered at the beginning of
   the bloom episode.

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               -8
            In another embodiment, the treating is performed upon detection of said pest
   growth.
            In a specific embodiment, said pest is cyanobacteria and said at least one water
                                                                                 2
   disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about 0.005 g/m      and about
           2
   50 g/m    or between about 0.5ppm and about 50ppm of the active agent.
            In one embodiment, administration of said composition to the aquatic system
   results in trace amounts of the active compound as measured in the water 0.5 hour, 1
   hour, 2 hours, 3 hours or more after each treatment.
            In a specific embodiment, said trace amounts of the active compound do not
   exceed 3ppm, as measured 24 hours or more after each treatment.
            In another embodiment, said pest is water surface inhabiting insects and said at
   least one water disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about
   50ppm and about 1000ppm.
            In a specific embodiment, said surface inhabiting insects are Culex sp.,
   Anopheles sp. or Chironomidaesp.s.
            In certain embodiments, said disinfectant acts as an ovicide.
            In one embodiment, said composition is administered to the aquatic system
   once, twice, or more.
            In certain embodiments, the composition is administered three times a day, or
   twice a day, or once a day, or once a week, or once every two weeks, or once every
   three weeks, or once a month or at longer intervals.
            In a specific embodiment, the composition is administered once a day or twice
   a day for a period of 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days or more.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            In order to better understand the subject matter that is disclosed herein and to
   exemplify how it may be carried out in practice, embodiments will now be described,
   by way of non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings,
   in which:
       Fig. 1 shows images of a glass jar filled with CHABs; (A) prior to treatment, (B)
   after overnight treatment with a buoyant formulation of Calcium hypochlorite.

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               -9
       Fig. 2 shows images of glass jars filled with CHABs and treated with various
   concentrations of Calcium hypochlorite; (A) no treatment, (B) 0.5 g/sq m of the
   Ca(OCl) 2 , (C) 1.0 g/sq m, (D) 5.0 g/sq m.
       Fig. 3A is a graph of chlorophyll-a concentration (pg/1) at the water surface as a
   function of time (days).
       Fig. 3B is a graph of chlorophyll-a concentration (pg/1) in a depth of 50cm as a
   function of time (days).
       Fig. 3C is a graph of pH measurements as a function of time (days).
       Fig. 3D is a graph of dissolved oxygen concentration (mgO2/l) at the water
   surface, as a function of time (days).
       Fig. 4 shows images of exemplary enclosures (A) without treatment (B) treated
   with three capsules (C) treated with 6 capsules and (D) treated with 9 capsules.
       Fig. 5 is a graph showing the concentration of cyanobacterial            cells/ml in
   enclosures treated with 3, 6 or 9 capsules, or without treatment (0), at two time points
   (at 12:00 and at 15:00).
       Fig. 6 shows images of the water surface of an enclosure (A) no treatment, (B)
   treatment with 6 capsules.
       Fig. 7 shows images of vials containing water taken from the surface of the
   enclosures after treatment with two doses of capsules. Left vial -         no treatment,
   subsequent vials from left to right 3, 6, and 9 capsules respectively.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
       The present invention relates to floating compositions comprising bleaching
   compounds (or oxidizers), suitable for the control of water surface inhabiting pests.
       In particular, the present invention relates to a buoyant diffusible formulation
   containing Calcium hypochlorite, Sodium dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC) or Sodium
   percarbonate (or other algaecides acting upon contact) suitable for the control of pests
   inhabiting water surface including first and foremost, cyanobacteria harmful algal
   blooms (CHABs) and surface inhabiting insects, as well as to methods for preparing
   the same.
       The invention is based in part on the surprising finding that a floating formulation
   of Calcium hypochlorite or NaDCC demonstrated excellent efficacy against massive
   mats of cyanobacteria, at 'total Cl concentration' (the total Cl concentration within a

WO 2015/001563                                                                 PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               - 10
   water column) which is much lower than the level of chlorine permitted in potable
   water.
        Hypochlorite and other oxidizers have been used for decades as purifying agents
   in drinking water supply systems. Similarly, small bodies of water such as swimming
   and recreational pools are often purified against algae and bacteria by systematically
   treating them with hypochlorite in high concentrations. This solution is obviously not
   suitable for large basins such as lakes or open water bayous due to high costs related
   with large quantities of the compound needed, nonspecific lethal effects of bleach on
   the entire ecosystem's fauna and flora.
        The present invention is based on the realization that ill effects of using a water
   disinfectant acting on contact could be remedied by lowering the actual concentration
   of the compound in the water column. This is achieved by maintaining a gradient of
   the disinfectant (e.g. hypochlorite or hydrogen peroxide) in the column of water by
   slow    release  of the   compound     from    a diffusible   buoyant formulation.     The
   concentration gradient of the disinfectant is produced by diffusion of the compound in
   water and optionally also by its rapid interaction with organic material in the water
   (including with the phytoplankton).        The water surface is where the mass of
   cyanobacteria is situated as mats, and hence, applying the floating composition of the
   invention at the water surface can hold back a potential algal toxic bloom outbreak.
        The novel treatment concept stems from the surprising finding that relatively
   small    amounts   of the    oxidizing   compound     are   sufficient for  triggering  an
   overwhelming      reaction   by   the   phytoplankton     and    especially  cyanobacteria
   populations. This effect could be achieved by using a floating formulation of the
   oxidizing compounds. When repeated at a certain frequency (according to the initial
   cyanobacteria content and composition, as well as the overall load of the organic
   material in the water) the cyanobacterial cell numbers begin to decline, eventually
   leading to the collapse of the HAB population and optionally to the colonization of
   the water column by competing non-harmful organisms. This method enables a
   simple treatment with very low input requirements for dispersal of the oxidizers and
   facilitates economical usage of mass dispersal methods (e.g. boats and crop dusting
   planes). Moreover, due to the low dosage of oxidizers and due to the massive organic
   load in the treated water, the total available oxidizing-agent concentration in the water
   is significantly lower than the concentration allowed by regulators in treated drinking

WO 2015/001563                                                                PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               -  11
   water (1-3 ppm of available chlorine) providing a safe and simple treatment with
   minimal adverse environmental effects.
           Without wishing to be bound by theory, hypochlorite reacts in the column of
   water with abundant organic matter at the surface, and thus does not accumulate in the
   water column. Every molecule of chlorine reacts with organic matter that is present in
   the aquatic system and therefore the concentration of available or total-chlorine is
   almost non-detectable after a very short time.
       The method of the present invention provides a simple and non-expensive solution
   compared to current treatments using Aluminum Sulfate. The solution provided by the
   present invention is about 15-20 times cheaper than the current A12 (SO 4 ) 3 treatment,
   significantly more effective as well as significantly less toxic to the environment.
       As a result of the treatment the algal and cyanobacterial            numbers can be
   significantly reduced. As a consequence, the release of toxins, which is typically
   associated with the lysis of cyanobacteria cells at the end of the season, can either be
   avoided or significantly reduced, thus avoiding the detrimental effects of CHABs on
   water quality, while avoiding widespread harm to water-inhabiting organisms.
       Therefore, the present invention provides a method for controlling surface
   inhabiting pests in an aquatic system; the method comprising:
   (a)    Obtaining a composition comprising at least one water disinfectant being an
          active agent releasing compound and at least one floating agent; and
   (b)   treating the aquatic system with the composition under conditions that result in
         reduction, inhibition or elimination of said pests in the aquatic system.
       As used herein the term "controlling surface-inhabiting pests" relates to the
   reduction, inhibition, prevention of accumulation, or elimination of said pest growth
   in the aquatic system.
       As used herein the term "pest" encompasses microorganisms and organisms
   inhabiting water surfaces including but not limited to algae (e.g. cyanobacterial
   harmful algal blooms (CHABs), and organisms causing phenomena such as red tides
   (caused by dinoflagellates) or sea foam, bacteria, plankton, phytoplankton water
   surface inhabiting insects     (i.e., adult   subjects, eggs or larvae of biting flies,
   Chironomidae (Tanypodinae) or Culicidae, e.g. Culex quinquefasciatus or Anopheles
   stevensi). Therefore, non limiting examples of water surface inhabiting insects include
   Culex sp., Aedes sp., Anopheles sp. and Chironomidaesp.

WO 2015/001563                                                             PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 12
       In a specific embodiment, the pest is cyanobacteria and cyanobacterial harmful
   algal blooms (CHABs).
       As used herein the term "algal bloom" relates to a rapid increase or accumulation
   in the population of algae (typically microscopic) in an aquatic system. Algal blooms
   may occur in freshwater as well as marine environments, and are also referred to as
   scum or floating algal mats. The term "harmful algal bloom" (HAB) relates to an
   algal (or cyanobacterial) bloom that causes negative impacts to other organisms via
   production of toxins, mechanical damage to other organisms, or by other means. The
   term encompasses any macro- or micro-photosynthetic organisms including green
   algae as well as cyanobacteria such as (but not limited to) Microcystis, Anabaena,
   Planktothria,Nostoc, Nodularia, Oscillatoriasp., Cylindrosperum,Planktothrix spp.,
   Aphanizomenon spp., Lyngbya and species such as Anabaena flos-aquae and A.
   planktonica as well as marine dinoflagelates, which are associated with the red-tides
   within the harmful marine algal blooms.
       The composition of the invention, and in a specific embodiment, a composition
   comprising hypochlorite or hydrogen peroxide, would not only affect the algal bloom
   but also commensal bacterial species, which are associated with the CHABs. It is
   known that different bacterial species have a major role in the existence of the
   CHABs (Eiler and Bertilsson, 2004; Jones et al., 1998; Sigee, 2005). Some of them
   cause, independently, adverse health effects for humans and animals (Berg et al.,
   2008).
       Moreover, the compositions of the invention, and in particular compositions
   comprising hypochlorite or hydrogen peroxide, also have an indirect detrimental
   effect on insects. In particular, insects which inhabit the water-surface interface, at
   least at a portion of their life cycle, for example, but not limited to, Chironomids,
   Anopheles and others.
       In certain aspects the methods of the present invention target the non-motile eggs
   of the insects. 250-500ppm of concentrated         hypochlorite caused 95% of egg
   populations not to hatch. Other eggs hatched prematurely and most of the hatched
   larvae did not mature into adults.
       Without wishing to be bound by theory, elimination of the egg-masses from the
   environment would not only affect chironomid population, but may also diminish V
   cholerae's ability to spread in water or to be consumed and therefore transmitted to
   humans.

WO 2015/001563                                                                 PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 13
       As used herein the term "aquatic system" encompasses natural or artificial
   systems such as lakes, rivers, fountains, ponds (e.g. fish ponds), canals, aquariums,
   aquaculture systems, water holding or conveying systems, water reservoirs, open
   drinking water systems, brackish water environments, waste water and oceans.
        As used herein the term "water disinfectant" relates to a compound capable of
   removal, deactivation or killing of microorganisms in water.
        In preferred embodiments the water disinfectant is an active agent releasing
   compound. In another embodiment the water disinfectant is an oxidizing water
   disinfectant.
        Non limiting examples of water disinfectants in accordance with the invention
   include: chlorine based compounds (also referred to as "chlorine releasing agents")
   (e.g. hypochlorite (OCli-),    Calcium hypochlorite,     Sodium hypochlorite,       sodium
   dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC, dehydrate monohydrate or anhydrous) , dichloro
   diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT)) copper sulfate, bromine based compounds               (also
   referred  to as    "bromine-releasing   agents"),   iodine  (I),  lodophores,    Potassium
   permanganate     (KMnO 4 ),   and peroxide-generating      compounds       (e.g.  hydrogen
   peroxide,   sodium per-carbonate, calcium peroxide, solidified hydrogen peroxide
   PVP complexes, sodium per-borate (tetrahydrate or monohydrate), Peracetic acid).
   Preferably, the water disinfectant is an oxidizing agent that reacts with water and with
   the organic material in the water thereby producing non-toxic products that do not
   accumulate or change the aquatic environment.
        For example, suitable reactive chlorine- or bromine- containing, oxidizing agents
   include heterocyclic N-bromo and N-chloro imides such as trichloroisocyanuric,
   tribromoisocyanuric, dibromoisocyanuric       and dichloroisocyanuric     acids, and salts
   thereof with water-solubilizing cations such as potassium and sodium (e.g. Sodium
   dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC) dehydrate or NaDCC anhydrous). Additional agents
   include Chloramine T (Sodium salt of N-chloro-4- methylbenzenesulfonamide),
   Dichloramine T (N, N-dichloro-4-methylbenzene-sulfonamide), or chlorine-releasing
   quaternary    ammonium     compounds     (e.g. benzalkonium      chloride,   benzethonium
   chloride and cetylpyridinium chloride). Hydantoin compounds such as 1, 3-dichloro
   5,5-dimethyl-hydantoin are also suitable. Dry, particulate, water-soluble anhydrous
   inorganic salts are likewise suitable for use herein such as lithium, sodium or calcium
   hypochlorite and hypobromite, as well as chlorinated trisodium phosphate.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 14
          For example, suitable peroxide-based compounds include organic peroxy-acids.
   The peroxy-acids      usable in the present     invention   are  solid and, preferably,
   substantially water-insoluble compounds. In one embodiment typical monoperoxy
   acids useful herein include alkyl peroxy-acids and aryl peroxy-acids such as, peroxy
   benzoic acid and ring-substituted peroxy-benzoic acids, e.g. peroxy-alpha-naphthoic
   acid or aliphatic and substituted aliphatic monoperoxy-acids, e.g. peroxy-lauric acid
   and peroxy-stearic acid.
        Inorganic peroxygen-generating compounds may also be suitable as cores for the
   particles   of the present    invention. Examples    of these materials    are salts of
   monopersulphate, copper sulfate, perborate monohydrate, perborate tetrahydrate, and
   percarbonate.
        In another embodiment, the water disinfectants are aldehydes (e.g. formaldehyde
   or glutaraldehyde) and solidified compounds thereof.
        In one embodiment the composition of the invention comprises a mixture of any
   of the above listed compounds such as, but not limited to, Copper sulfate and any
   hypochlorite compound. Preferably such a mixture will result in a synergistic effect.
        In   one embodiment,      the  method   of the    invention  comprises   sequential
   administrations of the composition of the invention wherein in each administration a
   different water disinfectant is used.
        The term "water disinfectant" also encompasses bleaching agents or compounds.
        Non-limiting examples of active agents released by the active agent releasing
   compound are Chlorine (Cl2 ), Chlorine dioxide (Cl0 2 ), Ozone (03), halogens (e.g.
   bromine (Br 2 ), bromine chloride (BrCl), metals (e.g. copper (Cu 2 +), silver (Ag*),
   Alum, Phenols, alcohols, soaps and detergents.
        In a specific embodiment, the water disinfectant is any compound suitable for
   water disinfection that produces hypochlorous acid or hydrogen peroxide as the active
   compound.
        In specific embodiments said water disinfectant is Calcium hypochlorite, sodium
   dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC) dihydrate, or Sodium percarbonate.
        As used herein the term 'floating agents" relates to compounds capable of
   floating on the surface of water. Non limiting examples of floating agents include
   cellulose   derivatives,  ground plant   biomass,   saturated   hydrocarbons,   resinous
   materials, foam, gelling agents and natural or synthetic latex.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                - 15
         In one embodiment the floating agent is wood dust (also termed sawdust). In a
   specific embodiment, the composition comprises sawdust and Calcium hypochlorite
   granules. The composition is prepared, for example, by adding Calcium hypochlorite
   granules (e.g. 14-50mesh) to sawdust, the compounds are partially sealed with a
   silicone adhesive, thoroughly mixed and then crushed to the desired particle size.
        In one embodiment the floating agent is paraffin. In a specific embodiment, the
   composition comprises       Calcium hypochlorite     and paraffin. The composition is
   prepared, for example, by mixing Calcium hypochlorite powder at a ratio of 1:2 w/w
   with paraffin at the melting point of paraffin and then either extruded or cooled and
   made into 3-4 mm flakes.
         In one embodiment the floating agent is rosin. In a specific embodiment, the
   composition comprises Calcium hypochlorite and rosin. The composition is prepared,
   for example, by mixing Calcium hypochlorite powder at a ratio of 1:2 w/w with rosin
   at the melting point of rosin and then either extruded or cooled and made into 3-4 mm
   flakes.
        The floating agent may be foam, for example any foam-former of suitable
   resistance to oxidation, e.g., Styrofoam or silicon foams.
        Thus, in one embodiment the floating agent is extruded or expanded polystyrene
   foam. In a specific embodiment, the composition comprises Calcium hypochlorite and
   extruded or expanded polystyrene foam. The composition is prepared, for example, by
   mixing Calcium hypochlorite granules with the viscous polymer pre-foam solution
   and then curing.
        In another embodiment the floating agent is silicone foam. In a specific
   embodiment, the composition comprises Calcium hypochlorite and silicone foam. The
   composition is prepared, for example, by mixing Calcium hypochlorite granules with
   the viscous polymer pre-foam solution and then curing.
       In a specific embodiment the floating agent is an aqueous foam solution containing
   a foam-generating chemical capable of producing foam when mixed with gas, e.g. air.
        In a specific embodiment the composition of the invention comprises an aqueous
   foam comprising chlorine dioxide. An aqueous solution comprising the disinfectant
   agent and capable of forming a foam is prepared for example by adding a foaming
   agent, i.e., a suitable surfactant, to water. Chlorine dioxide may then be added to the
   solution or it may be generated in-situ by reacting an oxidizing agent, or a cationic
   exchange resin in the acidic form, or an acid with a metal chlorite dissolved therein.

WO 2015/001563                                                                  PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                  - 16
   The resultant foam solution may subsequently be foamed by being mixed with air in a
   foam generator.
       In another embodiment the floating agent is a gelling agent, e.g. hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose.      In     a   specific   embodiment,      the   composition    comprises
   dichloroisocyanuric      acid sodium      salt  dehydrate   (NaDCC)     and hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose.
       In certain embodiments the composition may further comprise at least one binding
   agent, e.g. Glyceryl Stearate. Without wishing to be bound by theory the addition of
   Glyceryl Stearate decreases friability of the pellets and increases the buoyancy.
       In certain embodiments the composition may further comprise                at least one
   swelling agent, e.g. sodium chlorite, Citric Acid or Sodium Bicarbonate.
       Without wishing to be bound by theory, sodium bicarbonate and citric acid react
   and release carbon dioxide upon exposure to water and thereby further reduce the
   compound's dissolution time.
       Thus     in   one   specific   embodiment      the  composition    comprises   NaDCC,
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, Glyceryl Stearate, and sodium chlorite or Citric Acid
   and Sodium Bicarbonate.
        In another embodiment, the composition comprises Calcium hypochlorite coated
   with at least one layer of film-forming latex in a hydrocarbon. The density of the
   coated particles depends on the porosity of Calcium hypochlorite pellets and the
   character of the coating.
        The amount of the at least one water disinfectant in the composition may range
   from about 10% w/w, or about 20% w/w, or about 30% w/w, or about 40% w/w, or
   about 50% w/w or higher of the total composition.
        In  certain    embodiments     the   compositions    may    be  prepared   by  mixing,
   compression, hardening, or coating so as to form solid particles.
        In certain embodiments the composition is in the form of particles, flakes, powder,
   pills, pellets, or solution.
        In one embodiment         said treating step (b)    is performed by dispersing the
   composition on the water surface. The dispersion may be performed by spraying the
   composition over the aquatic system, e.g. by creating aerosol.
        In one embodiment, the treatment begins at the beginning of the bloom season
   optionally under a routine monitoring system.

WO 2015/001563                                                                PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                 - 17
       In a specific embodiment, the composition is spread before, or at the onset of a
   bloom episode and prevents          a potential toxic bloom outbreak. The treatment
   frequency can be daily, weekly or monthly - for example, in accordance with the
   organic load, variety of other phytoplankton and microorganism populations and type
   of the harmful microorganisms.
       The treatment may be repeated for a few days, halted and then resumed if and
   when the cell numbers rise.
       The algal mats are driven on the surface of water by the currents and winds. The
   floating formulation of the invention moves together with its target thus only the areas
   of accumulation of algae and not the whole surface of water should be treated.
       The effective treatment protocol can be determined by a person skilled in the art
   according to the local conditions in the aquatic system. The treatment may be
   provided as a single dispersion or as multiple dispersions. The frequency of treatment
   may be determined according to the local conditions and may for example be three
   times a day, or twice a day, or once a day, or once a week, or once every two weeks,
   or once every three weeks, or once a month or at longer or shorter intervals. In one
   embodiment the treatment is performed once at the beginning of the season with the
   appearance of the cyanobacteria and repeated, if necessary.
       Reduction, inhibition or elimination of algal growth can be easily determined
   using various methods. Non limiting examples include: visual detection, for example
   by inspecting the color and/or consistency of the water, analysis of genetic markers,
   e.g. the abundance of specific DNAs originating from these organisms such as those
   encoding    for  their   ribosomes,     measuring   chlorophyll-a   content,  microscopic
   measurements      of   cyanobacterial    cell   numbers,   measuring   dissolved   oxygen
   concentrations in the water, or by measuring the pH in the water, whereby an increase
   in pH is indicative of an increase in cyanobacterial cell numbers.
       In one embodiment the total concentration of the oxidizing agent (e.g. Calcium
   hypochlorite or NaDCC) in the water of the aquatic system is significantly lower than
   the level of chlorine permitted in potable water, preferably, 0.003 mM to 0.03 mM, or
   0.05-50 g/m 2 of the water surface or lower, or between about (0.5ppm) and about
   (50ppm) of the active agent.
       For example (see Examples 1 and 2 below), the inventors demonstrated that
   application of as little as 5 g/m 2 at the surface of highly polluted water obtained from
   a small pond at the Jerusalem Zoo contaminated with more than 109 Microcystis

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               - 18
   cells/ml was sufficient for the total elimination of the algal mat._Taking           for
   comparison the shallow Green lake (Seattle, USA) with a surface of 1.05-106 m 2 and a
   water volume of 4.12- 106 m3, only 5 ton of Ca (OCl) 2 of the buoyant formulation can
   be used as compared with 44 ton of the comparative non-buoyant formulation for the
   permitted range of hypochlorite in potable water.
       Furthermore, application of as little as 1.2 or 1.6 g of NaDCC to enclosures having
   a volume     of about 270liter    was sufficient for the       total elimination of the
   cyanobacterial infestation (as shown in Examples 5 and 6 below).
       The amount of dispersed oxidizers in accordance with the method of the invention
   depends on the amount of organic material in the water. Calcium hypochlorite or
   NaDCC interact with the organic material on contact and thereby their effective
   concentration is rapidly reduced. Namely, the active compound of the floating
   formulation interacts immediately with the organic load existing in the water without
   leaving any detectable residue and without accumulating in the environment.
       The invention also provides a slow release floating formulation of a bleaching
   compound. Specifically, the invention provides a floating algal growth inhibitor, a
   floating water-borne insect-ovicide, or a floating composition comprising a compound
   that reduces insect oviposition on water.
       Without wishing to be bound by theory, the present invention provides simple and
   cost-effective methods for interfering with the ecological niches of cyanobacteria or
   green algae (phytoplankton). This interference provides a temporary advantage to
   competitive microorganisms in the same environment and allows them to take over
   and successfully compete with the harmful phytoplankton. Namely, the methods of
   the invention are not aimed at completely eliminating the cyanobacteria or green algae
   from the water, as is the common practice with antibiotics, but to provide means for
   temporary changes in their ecological niche. Such an approach has never been used in
   large water basins.
       In another embodiment, and in particular for the treatment of water inhabiting
   insects, eggs or larvae, the total concentration of the oxidizing agent (e.g. Calcium
   hypochlorite or NaDCC) is about 50ppm, or 100ppm, or 200ppm or 250ppm or
   300ppm, or 400ppm, or 500ppm, or 600ppm, or 700ppm, or 800pp, or 900ppm, or
   1000ppm or more of the active agent. In one embodiment, the total concentration of
   the oxidizing agent is between about 50ppm and about 1000ppm of the active agent.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 19
   Preferably, the total concentration of the oxidizing agent is between about 50ppm and
   about 500ppm of the active agent.
           With respect to water inhabiting insects, bleaching was not suggested
   previously as a commercial ovicide, probably since high levels of the oxidizing agent
   could not be reached and sustained at the location of the eggs at the water surface (Di
   Domenico et al., 2006; Hatchett, 1946; Jacups et al., 2013).
           As used herein the term "ovicide " relates to an agent that kills or damages
   insect eggs, thereby preventing their regular hatching and the development of the
   larvae into a grown subject.
           As demonstrated in Example 5 below, the concentration of hypochlorous acid
   at natural environments disappears rapidly from the water (upon reaction with organic
   matter of any sort). Although these hypochlorous acid concentrations             affected
   phytoplankton very efficiently - as shown in Example 5 - they did not effectively
   affect mosquito eggs, or their larvae which escaped the active compound by
   swimming away. In contrast, the series of experiments presented in Example 7
   demonstrates, on different types of water-borne insects, that a relatively high
   concentration of bleach (e.g. NaDCC) is required to destroy the insects' eggs. Since
   these insects' eggs are normally laid in large water bodies, treating them with a non
   floating formulation would cause the bleach-load to dilute in the entire body of the
   water, thus failing to reach effective concentrations in order to affect the eggs or
   otherwise cause premature hatch of the insects' larvae. The floating formulation of the
   present invention thereby provides an effective solution, allowing administration of
   the high concentrations    (e.g. 50-500ppm) of the oxidizer required for effective
   treatment at the water surface and thereby generate the desired ovicidal effect.
           In addition, the process of laying eggs by female mosquitoes has been
   investigated for decades. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the females can
   detect harmful environment before laying their eggs on water surface. Therefore,
   using floating,   slow release formulations      of bleaching   agents is expected to
   significantly reduce the amount of laid eggs in those systems.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 20
                                              Examples
       Example 1: Determination of sensitivity of cyanobacteria to hypochlorite
       A 4 liter glass jar (0=65 mm, H=1210 mm) was filled with CHABs freshly
   sampled from the Biblical Zoo of Jerusalem (Figure 1A). The heavy algal population
   consisted mainly of Microcystis sp. The polluted water was treated overnight with a
   buoyant formulation of Calcium hypochlorite. The buoyant formulation was prepared
   by placing Calcium hypochlorite particles on a floating sheet of paper. The water
   gradually wetted the paper and the Calcium hypochlorite particles gradually dissolved
   into the glass jar interacting with the organic material and forming a concentration
   gradient in the water. After overnight treatment with the buoyant formulation
   containing 0.5mg of Calcium hypochlorite per sq cm (Figure IB), the average
   concentration of hypochlorite in the jar was 0.03mM, considerably below the
   permitted level (0.075mM) in potable water. The surface algae were lysed. Eukaryotic
   algae at the bottom of the jar were not affected due to the low concentration of
   Calcium hypochlorite at the bottom of the jar. No smell of chlorine could be detected
   at any stage of the experiments.
       Example 2: Testing various Calcium hypochlorite concentrations
       The experiment was conducted as shown above in Example 1 using various
   concentrations of Calcium hypochlorite. Different concentrations of Ca(OCl)      2 were
   added to a 4 liter glass jar as shown in Figure 2: (A) no treatment, (B) 0.05 mg/sq cm
   of the Ca(OCl) 2 , (C) 0.1 mg/sq cm, (D) 0.5mg/sq cm. At the end of the experiment 2
   ml from the surface of each tank were transferred into a 10 ml vial and left for several
   minutes to settle. Figure 2 demonstrates the effects of the various concentrations.
   Each of the tested concentrations reduced the amount of the algal population.
       Example 3: Preparation of floating composition of NaDCC anhydrous with
   Beeswax
            NaDCC anhydrous (Sigma # 218928) was mixed extensively with 50'C pre
   heated beeswax 1:1 w/w. This resulted in the formation of fine NaDCC particles
   partially encapsulated by the wax that enable floating of the active ingredient on the
   water surface.

WO 2015/001563                                                             PCT/IL2014/050602
                                            - 21
        Example 4: Preparation of an exemplary floating formulation comprising
   NaDCC
        The exemplary product formulation included the following components:
   Active ingredient: Sodium Dichloroisocyanuric acid NaDCC dihydrate (obtained
   from Acros Chemical) - 39.4% w/w of the total formula
   Gelling agent: Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (Methocel 40-202 PCG obtained from
   DOW Chemical) - 42.4% w/w of the total formula
   Binding agent: Glyceryl Stearate (obtained from Making Cosmetics) - 10.2% w/w of
   the total formula
   Swelling agents: NaCl (obtained from Sigma Aldrich) - 8% w/w of the total formula.
   Alternatively, Citric Acid (obtained from Sigma Aldrich) and Sodium Bicarbonate
   (obtained from Chem-IMPEX INT'L Inc.) - each 4% w/w of the total formula
   Preparation procedure
       The product formulation was prepared as follows: NaCl, citric acid, and sodium
   dichloroisocyanuric acid (NaDCC) dehydrate were ground in separate containers thus
   achieving a particle size range of about 0.2 to 0.7 mm. Alternatively, NaCl was
   replaced by glyceryl stearate and sodium bicarbonate. This creates particles that can
   be evenly distributed throughout the product. Next, Methocel 40-202 PCG, glyceryl
   stearate, dichloroisocyanuric acid sodium salt dihydrate, citric acid, and sodium
   bicarbonate were combined in a large container and stirred until all of the ingredients
   were well mixed. Once well mixed, the mixture was fed into a pellet press with a 12
   mm diameter. The press was adjusted to create a pellet that is about 7 mm thick and
   has a mass of about 500 mg. The pellets were then incubated in a 115'C oven for 3
   minutes, removed from the oven and allowed to cool.
   Dissolution Study
           The ability of the pellet to release free available chlorine from the water
    soluble NaDCC was measured over time using a colorimetric method. Three pellets
    were selected at random from the kilogram batch that was created. The dimensions
    and mass of each pellet was recorded and the pellets were added to an 800 ml high
    density polyethylene (HDPE) beaker filled with deionized water and covered with
    aluminum foil. The dimensions and mass of the randomly selected pellets are
   reported in Table 1. NaDCC (0.1975g) was added to a separate 800 ml plastic beaker

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 22
   as a control. 0.8 ml aliquots of each solution were pipetted into 50 ml volumetric
   flasks and brought to volume with deionized water. 10 ml aliquots of these diluted
   solutions were mixed with 100 pl of 0.1% orthotolidine in a vial, forming a clear,
   yellow solution. The solution was loaded into a cuvette and was analyzed using a
   Shimadzu UV160U UV-Vis Spectrophotometer at 436 nm.
   Table 1: Dimension and Mass of the Randomly Selected Pellets
                       A           12               7             501.8
                       B           12               /             505.0
                       C           12               /             496.7/
           Initial sample pulls occurred 15 minutes after the pellets and control sample
   were added to the water. Additional pulls were taken at about 2, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 24,
   and 36 hours.
           Upon exposure to water, NaDCC breaks down to release free available
   chlorine that acts as an algae growth inhibitor. Orthotolidine reacts with the chlorine
   causing a color change allowing for colorimetric analysis to chart the dissolution of
   the NaDCC. The concentration of NaDCC released at each time point was calculated
   by constructing a calibration curve relating the free available chlorine response to the
   initial concentration of NaDCC. The initial concentration of NaDCC calculation is
   shown in Equation 1. The original aliquot of the control taken at the 15 minute mark
   was used to create standards ranging from 25-250 ppm. The instrument response for
   each standard solution is shown in Table 2.
   Equation 1:
   Concentration of initial NaDCC = initial mass of NaDCC / volume of deionized water
                      197.5 mg / 0.800 L =246.9 ppm

WO 2015/001563                                                           PCT/IL2014/050602
                                             - 23
   Table 2: Standard Curve Concentration of NaDCC
                         Concentration (ppm)      Response (AU)
                         0.000                        0.000
                         24.69                        0.169
                         98.75                        0.828
                          123.4                       1.013
                          148.1                       1.356
                         246.9                        2.053
   The concentration of NaDCC released by the pellets over time was calculated using
   the relationship found between concentration and response from the calibration curve,
   which is also shown in Equation 2. The response of each randomly selected pellet
   (labeled "A", "B", and "C") and the control standard are reported in Table 3. The
   response was converted to concentration in Table 3 using Equation 3.
             Equation 2: Response (AU) = 0.0085 x Concentration (ppm)
             Equation 3: Concentration (ppm) = Response (AU) / 0.0085
  Table 3: Response of the Randomly Selected Pellets and Control Standard over Time
       Time (hours)         Control             A                B           C
             0.25              2.053           0.000            0.000        0.000
             2.17              1.941           0.034            0.091        0.036
             9.17              2.022           0.794            0.973        0.848
             11.00             1.831           1.168            1.385        1.219
             13.42             2.030           1.662            1.595        1.590
             15.42             1.988           1.721            1.712        1.677
             17.67             1.968           1.649            1.628        1.688
             24.00             1.850           1.753            1.889        1.809
             36.00             2.015           1.880            1.956        1.889

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               - 24
   Table 4: Concentration (ppm) of NaDCC Released by the Randomly Selected Pellets
   and Control Standard over Time
                           Time (hours) Control       A     B         C
                              0.25      241.5       0.000 0.000     0.000
                              2.17      228.4       4.000 10.71     4.235
                              9.17      237.9       93.41 114.5     99.76
                             11.00      215.4       137.4 162.9     143.4
                             13.42      238.8       195.5 187.6     187.1
                             15.42      233.9       202.5 201.4     197.3
                             17.67      231.5       194.0 191.5     198.6
                             24.00      217.6       206.2 222.2     212.8
                             36.00      237.1       221.2 230.1     222.2
            As shown above, the exemplified formulation floats and slowly releases
   NaDCC over time.
           The release of NaDCC occurred at a relatively linear rate until 15 hours. After
    15 hours, the rate of release slowed down dramatically. By 15 hours, about 85% of
   the NaDCC was released and by 24 hours about 90% was released.
   Example 5: Use of the floatingformulation to reduce cyanobacterialcell density [I]
           Enclosures [2.0 m long polyethylene clear tubes with 20cm radius (0.125 sq
   m) surface area] were set in an aerated fish pond (S1O pond, Auburn University,
   Auburn, AL.) infested with the toxic cyanobacterium Oscillatoria sp. (as the
   predominant species) with a chlorophyll concentration of     -150pg/l  and microcystins
   levels of 0.2 pg/l. Three independent assays were set and were treated by capsules
   (pellets) containing -200 mg sodium dichloroisocyanurate           (NaDCC) dihydrate
   granules as an active ingredient. The capsules were prepared as demonstrated in
   Example 4. The enclosure was open to the pond's floor and was subjected to
   movement of the water by a forceful aerator that worked every morning on a daily
   basis for a few hours each time. Four different treatments were applied: 8 capsules
   (total of 1.6 g of NaDCC dehydrate) at (1) single dose at day 1 only; (2) one dose

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                             - 25
   every morning for 5 days, (3) one dose twice a day for 5 days, and (4) no treatment.
   All enclosures were sampled three hours post morning treatment. Chlorophyll-a
   concentration was measured at water surface as well as at 50 cm depth. This reading
   is accepted as a direct indication for the phytoplankton cell density. Also, levels of
   dissolved oxygen (DO), pH (all depths), total suspended solids (TSS) at the surface,
   conductivity, and light extinction were taken. The following surprising findings were
   observed:
       1. Three hours after the first treatment, a 50-70% decrease in chlorophyll-a
           concentration was observed on the water surface which reached 99.96%
           decrease over 5 days of treatment in the repetitive treatments (Fig. 3A).
           Unexpectedly, the repetitive treatment affected also the water column, as was
           observed at 50cm depth with a decline of 50%-99%               chlorophyll-a in
           comparison to time 0 and no treatment control (Fig. 3B).
       2. The reduction in cyanobacterial numbers resulted also in a decrease of the
           photosynthesis yield: lower consumption of CO 2 from the system reduced
           carbonic acid and lead to a greater bicarbonate concentration and therefore
           reduction of the pH level. The pH decreased from 8.0 to 4.0 (Fig. 3C).
       3.  Dissolved oxygen (DO) measurements were also expected to decrease due to
           the loss of the photosynthesis yield: the concentration of 02 in the water was
           reduced very fast, namely after one day 02 concentrations were reduced by
           -50% and lasted for the 5 days of measurements (Fig. 3D).
       4. Light extinction as measured along the water column, as well as TSS or
           conductivity were surprisingly not altered, despite the significant reduction in
           phytoplankton.
       Without wishing to be bound by theory, pH and DO readings clearly demonstrate
   that the cyanobacterial physiology was altered in the beginning of the treatment even
   before cyanobacterial cells started to disappear from the water. This hypothesis is
   supported by the lack of change in light extinction coefficient, conductivity and total
   suspended solids (TSS) readings. Moreover, the readings of these three parameters
   remained constant throughout the entire assay and consistent across all 3 blocks of the
   experiment, suggesting that other populations of microorganisms took over the
   ecological niche the moment the cyanobacteria diminished. Alternatively, the other

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                             - 26
   populations of microorganisms may have predated on the nutritious cyanobacterial
   cell content.
        Another support to that claim is that chlorine concentration was almost non
   detectable along the whole assay neither at the water column nor on the surface, and
   did not exceed 0.1-0.3 ppm three hours post treatment. In this enclosure having a
   volume of -270 liters, 1.6g NaDCC dihydrate should theoretically represent 5.9 ppm
   or -3.4 ppm of available chlorine, although none could be traced either in the once-a
   day or in the twice a day treatment. In other words, the effect of the treatment on the
   cell density as well as the additional parameters could not be explained merely by
   direct toxic effects of the compound.
        Moreover, as stated before, this enclosure was positioned -20 m away from a
   strong aerator that blended daily the ponds' water, and probably mixed pond-water
   with the water in the enclosure whether by spraying water from above or by pushing
   water through the open end of the enclosures from below. The correlation of all
   parameters (chlorophyll-a concentration on surface and at minus 50 cm, pH and DO
   (Figs. 3A-D) independently in all 3 blocks of the trial clearly demonstrate that the
   treatment with a floating formulation comprising minute sub-concentrations of
   hypochlorous acid can cause a complete collapse of the harmful cyanobacterial
   population     and   potentially make    way   for  other   competing,     opportunistic
   microorganisms.
   Example 6: Use of the floating formulation to reduce cyanobacterial cell density
   [III
           In   another experiment,   enclosures  (composed    of a 40 cm long clear
   polyethylene tube) were set in an aerated shallow (30-100 cm deep) fish pond (G16
   pond, Auburn University, Auburn, AL., USA) which was heavily infested with the
   cyanobacterium Oscillatoriasp. with an initial cell density of ~106 filaments/ml. The
   enclosures were placed in the water while being open to both the water surface and
   the pond's floor. The following treatments were applied: (1) control with no treatment,
   (2) treatment with 3 capsules of a floating NaDCC formulation (3) treatment with 6
   capsules of a floating NaDCC formulation, and (4) treatment with 9 capsules of a
   floating NaDCC formulation (see Fig. 4 showing exemplary enclosures).              Each
   capsule contained 200mg NaDCC dihydrate as the active compound in a floating
   formulation as described in Example 4. Treatments were applied at 19:00 at day 1,

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 27
   then at 8:00 am on day 2, followed by a third and a last treatment at noon of the same
   day.
            Six capsules (total of 1.2 g NaDCC dihydrate as indicated above) successfully
   removed the entire scum in the enclosure (Figs. 5 and 6). This was also exemplified
   with vials that were filled with the enclosures' water surface to demonstrate the
   relative turbidity across the treatments (Fig. 7). Cell numbers in the water surface
   dropped dramatically (one order of magnitude) during the treatment course. The pH
   on the surface decreased from pH 9.5 to pH 8 suggesting a decrease in photosynthesis
   activity. Total chlorine measurement was performed using a tracer device (Pocket
   Tracer code 1740, LaMotte, USA) to reveal at the end of the treatment total chlorine
   concentrations of 0.3 ppm chlorine at the 3- capsule treatment, 0.43ppm chlorine at
   the 6-capsules treatment, and 1.22 ppm at the 9-capsules treatment (which were much
   lower than the theoretical expected concentrations of 8, 16 and 24 ppm, respectively,
   for a volume of 43 liters).
   Example      7: Defining the effect of sodium dichloroisocyanurate             (NaDCC)
   anhydrous on variety of hazardous water borne insects
           Household bleach of 3% concentration did not harm the eggs of Anopheles
   stevensi, although at moderate chlorine concentrations larvae of many types of insects
   hatched earlier than non-treated controls. The early hatching altered their development
   and prevented them from transforming into adults.
           The series of experiments presented below demonstrates, on different types of
   water-borne insects, that a relatively high concentration of bleach is required to
   destroy the insects' eggs.
        a. Culex quinquefasciatus (C. quinquefasciatus)
   Mosquito eggs were obtained from the Center for Disease control in Fort Collins,
   Colorado. The eggs were counted and transferred to spot plates containing 8 ml of
   NaDCC anhydrous solution at 0, 50, 500, 5000, and 50,000 ppm. Each treatment
   concentration and control (0 ppm) was replicated 3 times within the same spot plate
   and transferred to an incubator set for 300 C and 12 hrs of light and dark alterations
   for 25 hours. Immediately, after transferring the eggs into the water many larvae
   within the control started to hatch and began swimming. Larvae were counted as
   living, hatched dead, or unhatched dead 25 hrs after the bioassay was initiated. Larvae

WO 2015/001563                                                            PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 28
   were only counted as hatched if they were completely free from their egg casing. Data
   were analyzed by probit analysis with the PROBIT Procedure in SAS (Version 9.2,
   Cary North Carolina), producing an LC 95 and natural response rate. The LC 95 for C.
   quinquefasciatuswas 93.8 ppm. Egg shells were dissolved and unperceivable in the
   50,000 ppm treatment, and mostly dissolved in the 5000 ppm treatment; larvae still
   maintained a shape suggesting that they never hatched.
        b. Anopheles stevensi
   Anopheles stevensi eggs were obtained from the collection of Insectary Core Facility
   and Parasite Culture at New York University School of Medicine. 60 eggs were
   counted and transferred to spot plates containing 8 ml of NaDCC anhydrous solution
   at 0, 0.58, 5.8, 58, 580 and 5800 ppm. Each treatment and control was replicated
   twice within the same spot plate and transferred to an incubator set for 300 C and 12
   hrs of light and dark alterations for 72 hours. Data were analyzed by probit analysis
   with the PROBIT Procedure in SAS (Version 9.2, Cary North Carolina). Larvae were
   counted living, hatched dead, or unhatched dead 72 hrs after the bioassay was
   initiated. Individuals were only counted as hatched if they were completely free from
   their egg casing. The LC 95 , for Anopheles stevensi was 270 ppm.
        c. Aedes aegypti
   A. aegypti eggs were obtained from the Center for Disease control in Fort Collins,
   Colorado. The eggs were counted and transferred to spot plate treatment or control
   wells, and placed in an incubator. Larvae were counted as living, hatched dead, or
   unhatched dead 72 hours after the bioassay was initiated. Larvae were only counted as
   hatched if they were completely free from their egg casing. Data were analyzed by
   probit analysis with the PROBIT Procedure in SAS (Version 9.2, Cary North
   Carolina), producing an LC 95 and natural response rate. The LC 95 for A. aegypti was
   470 ppm. Egg shells were dissolved and unperceivable in the 50,000 ppm treatment,
   and mostly dissolved in the 5000 ppm treatment; larvae still maintained a shape
   suggesting that they never hatched.

WO 2015/001563                                                             PCT/IL2014/050602
                                             - 29
       d. Chironomidae
   Non-biting midge eggs (Chironomidae: Tanypodinae) were obtained from the pond at
   Town Park, Auburn, AL. The eggs were counted and transferred to spot plates
   containing 8 ml of NaDCC anhydrous solution at 0, 50, 500, 5000, and 50,000 ppm.
   Each treatment and control was replicated 3 times within the same spot plate and
   transferred to an incubator set for 300 C and 12 hours of light and dark alterations for
   a week. Data were analyzed by probit analysis with the PROBIT Procedure in SAS
   (Version 9.2, Cary North Carolina). Larvae were only counted as hatched if they were
   completely free from their egg casing. The LC 95 , for Tanypodinae was 205.7 ppm,
   with an estimated natural mortality rate of 2.8%.

WO 2015/001563                                                                 PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 30
   CLAIMS:
       1. A method for controlling surface-inhabiting pests in an aquatic system, the
           method comprising:
           a.  Obtaining a composition comprising at least one water disinfectant being
               an active agent releasing compound and at least one floating agent; and
           b.  treating the aquatic system with the composition under conditions that
               cause reduction, inhibition or elimination of said pest growth in the aquatic
               system.
   2. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one water disinfectant is an oxidizing
       water disinfectant.
   3.  The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one water disinfectant is selected from
       the group consisting of a chlorine releasing agent, a bromine-releasing agent, a
       peroxide-based compound, a copper salt, an aluminum salt, and any combination
       thereof.
   4. The method of claim 3 wherein the water disinfectant is Calcium hypochlorite or
       Sodium dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC).
   5.  The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the floating agent is selected from
       the group consisting of cellulose derivatives, ground plant biomass, saturated
       hydrocarbons, resinous materials, foam, and natural or synthetic latex.
   6.  The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is wood dust.
   7. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is paraffin.
   8.  The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is rosin.
   9. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is extruded or expanded
       polystyrene foam.
   10. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is silicone foam.
   11. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the amount of the at least
       one water disinfectant is about 10% w/w, or about 20% w/w, or about 30% w/w,
       or about 40% w/w, or about 50% w/w or higher of the total composition.
   12. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the composition is in the form of
       particles, granules, flakes, powder, pellets, pills, solution or a combination thereof.
   13. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said pest growth
       is selected from the group consisting of cyanobacterial growth, algal growth,
       microbial growth, plankton growth, and water surface inhabiting insects.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 31
   14. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the treating
       follows detection of a harmful algal bloom in the aquatic system.
   15. The method of claim 14, wherein the treating is performed at the beginning of the
       bloom episode.
   16. A method according to any one of claims 1-13, wherein the treating is performed
       upon detection of said pest growth.
   17. The method of claim 1 wherein said pest is cyanobacteria and wherein said
       disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about 0.005 g/m 2 and
       about 50 g/m 2, or between about 0.5ppm and about 50ppm of the active agent.
   18. The method of claim 17 wherein said treatment results in trace amounts of the
       active compound as measured in the water 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 24
       hours or more after each treatment.
   19. The method of claim 18 wherein said trace amounts of the active compound do
       not exceed 3ppm, as measured 24 hours or more after each treatment.
   20. The method of claim 1, wherein said pest is water surface inhabiting insects and
       wherein said disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about
       50ppm and about 1000ppm.
   21. The method of claim 20 wherein said surface inhabiting insects are Culex sp.,
       Aedes sp., Anopheles sp. or Chironomidaesp..
   22. The method of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said disinfectant acts as an ovicide.
   23. The method of claim 1 wherein said treating step comprises single, dual or
       multiple administrations of the water disinfectant.
   24. The method of claim 20 wherein the treating step is performed three times a day,
       or twice a day, or once a day, or once a week, or once every two weeks, or once
       every three weeks, or once a month or at longer intervals.
   25. The method of claim 21 wherein the treating step is performed once a day or twice
       a day for a period of 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days or more.
   26. The method of claim 23 wherein the dual or multiple administrations are with the
       same or with different disinfectants.
   27. The method of claim 1 wherein the treatment is performed by manual or
       mechanical dusters or by spreading a liquid solution, e.g. from a boat or a plane.
   28. A composition for use in controlling surface-inhabiting pests in an aquatic system,
       the composition comprising at least one water disinfectant being an active agent
       releasing compound and at least one floating agent.

WO 2015/001563                                                                 PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 32
   29. The composition of claim 28 wherein said at least one water disinfectant is an
       oxidizing water disinfectant.
   30. The composition of claim 28 wherein the at least one water disinfectant is selected
       from the group consisting of a chlorine releasing agent, a bromine-releasing agent,
       a peroxide-based compound, a copper salt, an aluminum salt, and any combination
       thereof.
   31. The composition      of claim    30 wherein    the water disinfectant      is Calcium
       hypochlorite or NaDCC.
   32. The composition of any one of claims 28-31 wherein the floating agent is selected
       from the group consisting of cellulose derivatives, ground plant biomass, saturated
       hydrocarbons, resinous materials, foam, and natural or synthetic latex.
   33. The composition of claim 32 wherein the floating agent is wood dust.
   34. The composition of claim 32 wherein the floating agent is paraffin.
   35. The composition of claim 32 wherein the floating agent is rosin.
   36. The composition of claim 32 wherein the floating agent is extruded or expanded
       polystyrene foam.
   37. The composition of claim 32 wherein the floating agent is silicone foam.
   38. The composition of any one of claims 28-37 wherein the amount of the at least
       one water disinfectant is about 10% w/w, or about 20% w/w, or about 30% w/w,
       or about 40% w/w, or about 50% w/w or higher of the total composition.
   39. The composition of any one of claims 28-38 wherein the composition is in the
       form of particles, granules, flakes, powder, pellets, pills or a solution.
   40. The composition of any one of claims 28-39, wherein said pest growth is selected
       from the group consisting of cyanobacterial growth, algal growth, microbial
       growth, plankton growth, and water surface inhabiting insects.
   41. The composition of any one of claims 28-40, wherein the composition is
       administered following detection of a harmful algal bloom in the aquatic system.
   42. The composition of claim 41, wherein the composition is administered at the
       beginning of the bloom episode.
   43. The composition of any one of claims 28-40, wherein the treating is performed
       upon detection of said pest growth.
   44. The composition of claim 28 wherein said pest is cyanobacteria and wherein said
       at least one water disinfectant is administered at a concentration of between about

WO 2015/001563                                                               PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              - 33
       0.005 g/m 2 and about 50 g/m 2 or between about 0.5ppm and about 50ppm of the
       active agent.
   45. The composition of claim 44 wherein administration of said composition to the
       aquatic system results in trace amounts of the active compound as measured in the
       water 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 24 hours or more after each treatment.
   46. The composition of claim 45 wherein said trace amounts of the active compound
       do not exceed 3ppm, as measured 24 hours or more after each treatment.
   47. The composition of claim 28, wherein said pest is water surface inhabiting insects
       and wherein said at least one water disinfectant is administered at a concentration
       of between about 50ppm and about 1000ppm.
   48. The composition of claim 47 wherein said surface inhabiting insects are Culex sp.,
       Aedes sp., Anopheles sp. or Chironomidaesp.s.
   49. The composition of claim 47 or claim 48 wherein said disinfectant acts as an
       ovicide.
   50. The composition of claim 24 wherein said composition is administered to the
       aquatic system once, twice, or more.
   51. The composition of claim 43 wherein the composition is administered three times
       a day, or twice a day, or once a day, or once a week, or once every two weeks, or
       once every three weeks, or once a month or at longer intervals.
   52. The composition of claim 44 wherein the composition is administered once a day
       or twice a day for a period of 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days or more.

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              34
                                     AMENDED CLAIMS
         received by the International Bureau on 23 November 2014 (23.11.2014).
       1. A method for controlling a surface-inhabiting photosynthetic microorganism
           bloom in an aquatic system, the method comprising:
           a. producing a buoyant composition comprising at least one photosynthetic
  microorganism inhibitor and a floating agent; and
           b. applying said buoyant composition to a surface of said aquatic system under
  conditions which induce         at least a 50%      reduction in said photosynthetic
  microorganism within a period of time in said aquatic system, characterized in that
  said at least one photosynthetic microorganism inhibitor is at a concentration below a
  drinking water allowable concentration in said aquatic system after said period of
  time, and wherein said at least one photosynthetic microorganism inhibitor is adapted
  to substantially disintegrate from the aquatic system such that it cannot be detected in
  its active form after said period of time.
       2. The method of claim           1, wherein said at least one photosynthetic
           microorganism inhibitor comprises an oxidizing water disinfectant.
       3. The method of claim 2, wherein said water disinfectant is selected from the
           group consisting of a chlorine releasing agent, a bromine-releasing agent, a
           peroxide-based compound, a copper salt, an aluminum salt, and any
           combination thereof.
       4. The method of claim 3, wherein said chlorine releasing agent is selected from
           calcium hypochlorite and sodium dicldoroisocyanurate (NaDCC).
       5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the floating agent is selected
           from the group consisting of cellulose derivatives, ground plant biomass,
           saturated hydrocarbons, resinous materials, foam, wax and natural or synthetic
           latex.
       6. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is wood dust.
       7. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is paraffin.
       8. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is rosin.
       9. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is extruded or expanded
           polystyrene foam.
       10. The method of claim 5 wherein the floating agent is silicone foam.
       11. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein a concentration of
           said photosynthetic microorganism inhibitor is about 10% w/w, about 20%
                                   AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

WO 2015/001563                                                                  PCT/IL2014/050602
                                                35
          w/w, about 30% w/w, about 40% w/w, about 50% w/w or higher of said
          composition.
      12. The method of any one of claims I to 5, wherein the composition is in the
          form of particles, granules, flakes, a powder, pellets, pills, a solution or a
          combination thereof.
     13. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said at least
          one photosynthetic microorganism is selected from the group consisting of a
          cyanobacterium, an alga, a plankton and combinations thereof.
     14. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the applying
          step follows detection of the bloom in the aquatic system.
     15. The method of claim 14, wherein the applying step is performed during a a
          seasonal bloom.
     16. A method according to any one of claims 1-15, wherein said period of time is
          three hours.
     17. A method according to any one of claims 1-16, wherein said period of time is
          at least three days and said at least a 50% reduction is at least a 99% reduction.
     18. The method of claim 1 wherein said photosynthetic microorganism is a
          cyanobacterium wherein said composition is applied to said surface at a
         concentration of between about 0.005 g/m 2 and about 50 g/m 2 , or between
         about 0.5ppm and about 50ppm of said inhibitor agent.
     19. The method of claim 18, wherein said application step is repeated after a
         several hour interval.
    20. The method of claim 19, wherein said applying step results in trace amounts of
         said inhibitor as measured in the water 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 24
         hours or more after each application.
    21. The method of claim 18, wherein said trace amounts of the active compound
         are equal or less than 3ppm, as measured 24 hours or more after each
         application.
    22. The method of claim 18, wherein the treating step is performed three times a
         day, or twice a day, or once a day, or once a week, or once every two weeks,
         or once every three weeks, or once a month or at longer intervals.
    23. The method of claim 21, wherein the applying step is performed once a day or
         twice a day for a period of I day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days or more.
                               AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

WO 2015/001563                                                              PCT/IL2014/050602
                                              36
     24. The method of claim 23, further comprising applying a second inhibitor to
         said surface.
     25. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step is performed by manual or
         mechanical dusters, or by spreading a liquid solution or foam from a boat or a
         plane.
     26. A diffusible buoyant composition for use in controlling a surface-inhabiting
         photosynthetic microorganism bloom in an aquatic system, the diffusible
         buoyant composition comprising a photosynthetic microorganism inhibitor
         and a floating agent, characterized in that said composition is adapted to
         slowly release said inhibitor to said surface to oxidize said bloom and wherein
         said at least one photosynthetic microorganism inhibitor is at a concentration
         below a drinking water allowable concentration in said aquatic system after
         said period of time.
     27. The composition of claim 26, wherein said ;photosynthetic microorganism
         inhibitor is an oxidizing water disinfectant.
     28. The composition of claim 27, wherein the at least one water disinfectant is
         selected from the group consisting of a chlorine releasing agent, a bromine
         releasing agent, a peroxide-based compound, a copper salt, an aluminum salt,
         and any combination thereof.
     29. The composition of claim 28, wherein the water disinfectant is calcium
         hypochlorite or NaDCC.
     30. The composition of any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein the floating agent is
         selected from the group consisting of cellulose derivatives, ground plant
         biomass, saturated hydrocarbons, resinous materials, foam, wax and natural or
         synthetic latex.
     31. The composition of claim 30, wherein the floating agent is wood dust.
     32. The composition of claim 30, wherein the floating agent is paraffin.
     33. The composition of claim 30, wherein the floating agent is rosin.
    34. The composition of claim 30, wherein the floating agent is extruded or
         expanded polystyrene foam.
    35. The composition of claim 30, wherein the floating agent is silicone foam.
    36. The composition of claim 30, wherein the floating agent is wax.
                                 AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

WO 2015/001563                                                                  PCT/IL2014/050602
                                               37
     37. The composition of any one of claims 26-36, wherein the composition is in the
          form of particles, granules, flakes, powder, pellets, pills or a solution.
     38. The composition of any one of claims 26-37, wherein said photosynthetic
         microorganism bloom is selected from the group consisting of cyanobacterial
          growth, algal growth, microbial growth and plankton growth.
     39. The composition of any one of claims 26-38, wherein the composition is
          suitable for administration to said aquatic system following detection of a
         harmful bloom in the aquatic system.
     40. The composition of claim 28, wherein said pest is cyanobacteria and wherein
          said at least one water disinfectant is administered at a concentration of
         between about 0.005 g/m 2 and about 50 g/m 2 or between about 0.Sppm and
         about S0ppm of the active agent.
     41. The composition of any one of claims 28-37, wherein the amount of the at
         least one water disinfectant is about 10% w/w, or about 20% w/w, or about
         30% w/w, or about 40% w/w, or about 50% w/w or higher of the total
         composition.
     42. The composition of claim 41, wherein administration of said composition to
         the aquatic system results in trace amounts of the active compound as
         measured in the aquatic system 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 24 hours or
         more after each treatment.
     43. The composition of claim 42, wherein said trace amounts of the active
         compound do not exceed 3ppm, as measured 24 hours or more after each
         treatment.
    44. The composition of claim 26, wherein said composition is adapted for
         administration to the aquatic system once, twice, or more.
    45. The composition of claim 43, wherein the composition is suitable for
         administration administered three times a day, or twice a day, or once a day, or
         once a week, or once every two weeks, or once every three weeks, or once a
         month or at longer intervals.
    46. The composition of claim 43, wherein the composition is adapted for
         administration administered once a day, or twice a day for a period of I day, 2
         days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days or more.
                                    AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
