   Abstract
   The invention relates to a sports helmet (1) and a face guard (2) attached to
   said helmet (1), said face guard (2) having a cage type construction of
 5 interconnected struts (3, 4) capable of surrounding and protecting at least the
   front and sides of the jaw of a wearer (20), where a protective pad (5) is
   provided with attachment means (10, 17) for securely attaching said protective
   pad (5) to said struts (3) of the face guard (2). The protective pad (5) can be
   provided with hexagonal openings (11) and one or more of the hexagonal
10 openings (11) are filled with an impact absorbent crush foam. The invention
   also relates to a protective pad (5) configured for use in connection with a
   sports helmet (1).

                                             1
   SPORTS HELMET WITH A PROTECTIVE PAD
   The invention relates to a sports helmet and a face guard attached to said
   helmet, said face guard having a cage type construction of interconnected
 5 struts capable of surrounding and protecting at least the front and sides of
   the jaw of a wearer.
   The invention further relates to a protective pad for a sports helmet, which
   protective pad is connected to the faceguard of the helmet.
10
   The present invention relates to the field of protective sports equipment for
   providing facial protection especially in connection with ball sports. Most
   particularly, the present invention relates to a sports helmet with a face guard
   having a cage type construction of interconnected struts to which a protective
15 pad can be connected.
   Background:
   Face guards of various types are known. Many designs of face-guards have
   been suggested for use in connection with ball sports or sports in which a
20 projectile such as a puck or a ball is in play.
   A cage type face guard for use in connection with a helmet is known from
   WO 2012/104389 Al, which shows a helmet with a face guard made from a
   frame of relatively rigid wire elements extending around and/or in front of the
25 face of the wearer. Such cage type face guards are often made from
   longitudinal struts connected together into a frame having a suitable rigidity to
   offer the wearer sufficient protection from impact of a projectile such as a ball
   or a puck in flight.

                                             2
   The purpose with this type of face guard is to provide sufficient protection
   and at the same time give the wearer sufficient mobility to move in order to
   play the game with no essential limitations
 5 From BRMU8802485U a flexible insert for a helmet with a protective piece
   for protecting the nape of the neck is known. Here the protecting piece is
   integral with the flexible insert by an elongate member.
   From US8505113 BB a combat helmet is known to which helmet a ballistic
10 armoured component attaches to the existing retention straps of common
   combat helmets and provides protection to the otherwise exposed lower skull
   and upper neck region. The protection is provided by a fabric covering
   containing a soft armour or hard armour insert, and is mounted by straps or
   other fasteners to existing straps found in conventional helmets. The
15 armoured component is intended for adding additional protection from ground
   level or subterranean munitions. The fabric shell may also be connected
   directly to the helmet shell, to allow the component to withdraw within the
   helmet when the wearer's neck is flexed rearwardly.
20 In relation to sports helmets especially used in games like hockey, polo and
   cricket, helmets are used in order to avoid injuries in the head region caused
   by a puck or a ball during game as discussed above.
   Experience has shown that other regions of the head apart from the face can
25 be injured during these games. It has been discovered that the back of the
   head in some situations during game can be hit by a projectile such as a ball
   or a puck in flight and that impact from a ball or a puck in the back of the
   head can lead to fatal injuries.
30 Even if the wearer in some conditions would try to duck in order to avoid the
   ball or puck by reflexes, it is different with a ball or puck coming from the rear

                                           3
   since you may not have noticed the ball or puck at all. It is also very likely
   that the player will have seen the ball coming and in his attempt to deal with
   the ball has moved into a position where the back of the head is exposed.
 5 Summary of the invention
   To prevent such injuries and provide improved protection to a susceptible
   part of the head, in accordance with the present invention, there is provided a
   sports helmet having a face guard and a protective pad as defined in the
10 appended claim 1. Further advantageous features thereof are defined in sub
   claims 2 - 15. A helmet having a face guard and provided with a protective
   pad is defined in claim 16 and 17.
   The present invention seeks to provide an improved sports helmet with a
15 face guard and having regard in particular to enhanced protection and
   minimal visual obstruction as well as minimal mobility obstruction.
   The objective of the invention is to give the wearer the maximum coverage
   possible without inhibiting movement which is critical to batting.
20
   The invention provides a protective pad for a sports helmet with a face guard
   having a cage type construction with a generally open viewing aperture,
   bounded by longitudinal struts connected together into a frame.
25 To be able to connect the protective pad to the helmet in a way that makes
   the attachment easy and at the same time achieves a secure attachment to
   the helmet the protective pad is provided with attachment means for
   attachment to the frame of the face guard, said face guard being attached
   securely to the helmet thereby securing that when attaching the protective
30 pad to said struts or wire of the face guard, said protective pad is also
   attached securely in relation to the helmet.

                                            4
   In an embodiment the attachment means can be provided at opposite distal
   ends of said protective pad and provided by at least one pair of protruding
   flanges for securely and releasable attaching said protective pad to said
   struts of the face guard. The distal ends of said protective pad should be
 5 understood as the two attachment ends of said protective pad pointing away
   from each other.
   The flanges can provide a retaining force or act with a snapping action by
   said flanges at their free end having a mutual distance which is shorter than a
10 mutual distance between the flanges measured at a point at half a protruding
   length of the flanges.
   In an alternative embodiment at least one of said flanges curves in order to
   partly embrace a strut or wire of said face guard, said flange embracing said
15 strut or wire and having an opening with an angle a, which angle is more than
   900 and less than 1800, preferably between 1000 and 1300 relative to a
   contact point between said protective pad and said strut or wire of said face
   guard. Hereby is achieved that even a single flange can attach the protective
   pad to a strut or wire of the face guard or at least one of the flanges is
20 capable of retaining the protective pad to a strut or wire of the face guard by
   a snapping effect.
   In an alternative embodiment, where at least one of said flanges curves in
   order to partly embrace a strut or wire of said face guard, said flanges having
25 an opening between end points of said flanges with a gap which is smaller
   than the diameter of said strut or wire.
   Further the retaining force of the flange or flanges is supported by having
   least one of said protruding flanges being elastic providing a retaining force,
30 attaching the protective pad to a rearward strut or wire of said face guard by

                                           5
   at least partly embracing a part of a strut or wire at a rearward part of said
   face guard.
   In an alternative embodiment at least one of said flanges are provided with a
 5 cut-out for receiving a strut, which strut is fastened to said rearward part of
   said face guard.
   The flanges form a kind of clip that is able to rotate (hinge) on the strut or
   wire of the rear of the face guard and it is achieved that the flanges can retain
10 the protective pad securely to the face guard and at the same time allow for
   some movement of the guard if it does come into contact with the wearer.
   In an alternative embodiment the flanges at an upper part of said protective
   pad are positioned closer to an outer side of the protective pad and at a lower
15 part of said protective pad the flanges are positioned closer to a head side of
   the protective pad, giving more clearance to the wearer in that the distance
   between the protective pad and the head of the wearer is increased at the
   lower part of the protective pad.
20 In an embodiment         said protective pad comprises two pad elements
   connected with one or more bendable connection pieces having a cross
   section smaller than a cross section of the two pad elements. Hereby is
   achieved that the middle section of the protective pad is flexible and allows
   freedom for movement.
25
   In an alternative embodiment said protective pad comprises two hollow pad
   elements. When the pad elements are hollow, they are capable of taking up
   energy from a puck or ball when hit and thereby protect the back of the head
   of the wearer of the helmet.
30

                                            6
   In an alternative embodiment the protective pad comprises two pad elements
   each provided with a core of an impact absorbent crush foam. This may
   further improve the capability of taking up energy from a puck or ball.
 5 In an alternative embodiment the protective pad elements at least at one side
   is provided with a cell structure having openings, which structure also leads
   to improved capability of taking up energy from a puck or ball.
   In an alternative embodiment the cell structure comprises a number of
10 elongate openings surrounding one or more larger openings, compared to
   the elongate openings.
   In an alternative embodiment the larger openings are hexagonal and one or
   more of the hexagonal openings are filled with an impact absorbent crush
15 foam.
   Hereby an even more improved capability of taking up energy from a puck or
   ball is achieved.
20 In an alternative embodiment, a protective pad can be fitted to a rear point of
   the helmet to support the attachment to the helmet and the face guard. Such
   a rear point could be a separate fixing point or a kind of adjustment system
   for adjusting the helmet in order to fit to the wearer which adjustment system
   is used in a number of helmets.
25
   The adjustment system can be extended from a groove or recess in the rear
   of the helmet. The protective pad can in certain conditions even be supported
   by the attachment to the attachment point at the rear of the helmet alone.
   In an alternative embodiment the one or more connection pieces has a height
30 which is less than half the height of the pad elements. Hereby is achieved

                                         7
   that the wearer gains more freedom to move the head when wearing the
   helmet with the protective pad attached.
   The height of the one or more connection pieces and the height of the
 5 protection elements should be understood as the essentially vertical extent
   when the wearer is wearing the helmet and the wearer is in upright position.
   The invention is also achieved by a protective pad configured for use in
   connection with a sports helmet and a face guard attached to said helmet,
10 said face guard having a cage type construction of interconnected struts
   capable of surrounding and protecting at least the front and sides of the jaw
   of a wearer, where the protective pad is provided with attachment means for
   securely and releasable attaching said protective pad to said struts of the
   face guard.
15
   Further embodiments and advantages are disclosed below in the description
   and in the claims.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20
   The invention will now be described more fully below, by way of example
   only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which
   Figure 1 shows schematically contours of a wearer of a sports helmet with a
25 cage type face guard provided with a protective pad;
   Figure 2 shows schematically a sports helmet with a cage type face guard
   provided with a protective pad ready to be attached to the face guard;
30 Figure 3 shows schematically a perspective view of a sports helmet with a
   cage type face guard provided with a protective pad;

                                            8
   Figure 4 shows schematically a side view of a sports helmet with a cage type
   face guard provided with a protective pad;
   Figure 5 shows schematically a top view of a protective pad for a sports
 5 helmet;
   Figure 6 shows schematically a side view of a protective pad having
   hexagonal pattern of openings;
10 Figure 7 shows schematically a perspective view of a protective pad;
   Figure 8 shows schematically another perspective view of a protective pad;
   Figure 9 shows schematically the back side of a sports helmet with a cage
15 type face guard provided with a protective pad; and
   Figure 10 shows schematically a virtual cross section where a protective pad
   is releasable attached to a strut or wire of the face guard.
20 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Now convenient embodiments of the invention will be described.
   A sports helmet 1 having a face guard 2 attached to said helmet 1 where said
25 face guard 2 is provided as a cage type construction of interconnected struts
   3, 4 capable of surrounding and protecting the face and at least the front and
   sides of the jaw of a wearer 20. The struts 3, 4 can be made of a metal mesh
   or from wire or rods bended and joined together forming the face guard 2.
   The struts, wires or rods 3, 4 can be made of metal or any suitable material
30 being sufficient strong and sufficient light so it is capable of giving sufficient

                                           9
   protection and not hindering movement or the viewing ability of the wearer 20
   during use.
   The helmet 1 with the face guard 2 is advantageous for players playing
 5 hockey, polo or cricket or other games where a projectile such as a puck or a
   ball is in play.
   In order to give the wearer 20 further protection for regions of the head apart
   from the face, a protective pad to be attached to a helmet carrying a face
10 guard is provided by the invention.
   The protective pad 5 is provided with attachment means 10, 17 for securely
   attaching said protective pad 5 to said struts 3 of the face guard 2. The
   attachment means 10, 17 must be capable of holding the protective pads 5
15 securely attached to the struts 3 of the face guard 2. Such attachment can be
   achieved by providing the protective pad with attachment means 10, 17 at
   opposite distal ends of said protective pad 5 where the attachment means
   10, 17 are provided by at least one pair of protruding flanges 10, 17.
20 The flanges 10, 17 can be provided in pairs being of equal length and having
   at their free end a mutual distance which is shorter than a mutual distance
   between the flanges 10, 17 measured at a point at half a protruding length of
   the flanges 10, 17. The protrusion of the flanges in such an embodiment will
   be a little longer than a radius of the strut or wire 3 to which the flanges 10,
25 17 are attached by a snapping action facilitated by the narrower distance of
   the flanges 10, 17 at their free ends and at the same time make it easy to
   attach and detach the protective pad 5 to the face guard 2 thereby making
   possibility for securely and releasable attaching said the protective pad 5 to
   the face guard.
30

                                              10
   The flanges 10, 17 can be provided in an elastic material in order to increase
   the snapping action of the flanges 10, 17.
   In an alternative embodiment the flanges 10, 17 can be of different length.
 5 One of the flanges 10 can curve, as indicated in Figure 10, in order to partly
   embrace a strut or wire 3 of said face guard 2. Here the flange 10 embracing
   said strut or wire 3 has an opening with an angle a, which angle is more than
   900 and less than 1800, preferably between 1000 and 1300 relative to a
   contact point 23 between said protective pad 5 and said strut or wire 3 of said
10 face guard 2.
   Even if the angle a, is a little less than 1800, the curved flange 10 will hold on
   to the strut or wire 3. The holding properties of the flange can be improved by
   providing the free end 21 of the flange 10 with a kind of bulge.
15
   If the curved flange 10 leaves only a little opening or having an opening angle
   a being too small, it is possible to attach the protective pad 5 to the strut or
   wire 3, but it will be more difficult to perform the attachment and detachment.
20 In this embodiment it is possible to reduce the protrusion or extent of one
   flange 17 to a minimum or even sacrify the flange 17, which is not curved.
   In an alternative embodiment one of the flanges 10, 17 also curves in order
   to partly embrace a strut or wire 3 of the face guard 2. The flange 10 which
25 embraces the strut or wire 3 and having an opening between end points 21,
   22 of said flanges 10, 17 with a distance which is smaller than the diameter
   of said strut or wire 3. This gap between the end points 21, 22 is selected in
   relation to the diameter of the strut or wire 3 to give a sufficient snapping
   effect and attachment force.
30

                                          11
   If the strut or wire does not have a substantially circular cross section, the
   diameter or corresponding        measure    should   be measured      essentially
   perpendicular to a contact face at the contact point 23.
 5 Also to provide a sufficient snapping effect at least one of the protruding
   flanges 10, 17 is elastic providing a retaining force, attaching the protective
   pad 5 to a rearward strut or wire 3 of the face guard 2 by at least partly
   embracing a part of the strut or wire 3 at a rearward part 3 of the face guard
   2.
10
   To make it possible for the protective pad to rotate partly around the strut or
   wire to which it is attached, a cut-out 12 in at least one of the flanges 10, 17
   is provided in order to make room for a strut or wire 4, which end is attached
   crosswise to the rearward strut or wire 3 to which the protective pad is
15 attached. This improves the freedom of movement for the protective pad.
   Also to provide as free movement as possible for the wearer 20 the flanges
   10, 17 at an upper part of the protective pad 5 are positioned closer to an
   outer side 19 of the protective pad 5 and at a lower part of said protective
20 pad 5 the flanges 10, 17 are positioned closer to a head side 18 of the
   protective pad 5. This ensures that the lower part of the protective pad 5 is
   positioned with a larger distance to the head of the wearer 20 than distance
   between the head of the wearer 20 and the upper part of the protective pad
   5, giving more freedom of movement.
25
   In an embodiment the protective pad 5 comprises two pad elements 7, 8
   connected with one or more bendable connection pieces 9. The one or more
   connection pieces 9 has a cross section smaller than a cross section of the
   two pad elements 7, 8, also giving more freedom of movement to the wearer
30 20 and provides more flexibility to the protective pad, which helps preventing
   that the protective pad 5 is detached unintended.

                                         12
   The protective pad 5 can be provided by two hollow pad elements 7, 8, which
   are connected to each other by the one or more bendable connection pieces
   9.
 5 The protective pad elements 7, 8 can be manufactured from any suitable
   material providing impact protection and flexibility. An example of such a
   suitable material can be an impact absorbent thermoplastic Polyurethane
   (TPU).
10 The two protective pad elements 7, 8 can also each be with a core of an
   impact absorbent crush foam.
   The two protective pad elements 7, 8 can, at least at one side, be provided
   with a cell structure having openings 11.
15
   The cell structure comprises a number of elongate openings 16 surrounding
   one or more larger openings 11 compared to the elongate openings 16 and
   in an embodiment the one or more larger openings 11 are hexagonal and
   one or more of the hexagonal openings are filled with an impact absorbent
20 crush foam.
   These openings further support the impact absorbability for the protective
   pad elements 7, 8.
25 The hexagonal design allows for lateral movement ensuring more shock
   dispersion that one solid foam block or core.
   In an embodiment the one or more connection pieces 9 has a height which is
   less than half the height of the pad elements 7, 8, also for giving more
30 freedom of movement.

                                          13
   The one or more connection pieces 9 can be manufactured in any suitable
   bendable or resilient materials and the one or more connection pieces can be
   corrugated or provided with a scalloped centre section to further allow for
   freedom of movement. In case of more connection pieces 9, they do not
 5 need to be identical.
   A protective pad 5 is configured for use in connection with a sports helmet 1
   and a face guard 2 attached to the helmet 1. The face guard 2 has a cage
   type construction of interconnected struts 3, 4 capable of surrounding and
10 protecting at least the front and sides of the jaw of a wearer 20, where the
   protective pad 5 is provided with attachment means 10, 17 for securely and
   releasable attaching said protective pad 5 to said struts 3 of the face guard 2
   in order to improve safety during game and to uphold freedom of movement
   for the player or wearer 20.
15
   The invention, and various embodiments thereof, has been described with
   reference to non-limiting examples. Additional features of the invention will be
   apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art within the scope of the appended
   claims.
20

                                          14
   CLAIMS
   1. A sports helmet and a face guard attached to said helmet, said face guard
   having a cage type construction of interconnected struts capable of
 5 surrounding and protecting at least the front and sides of the jaw of a wearer,
   characterised in that a protective pad (5) is provided with attachment means
   (10, 17) for securely attaching said protective pad (5) to said struts (3) of the
   face guard (2).
10 2. A sports helmet according to claim 1, wherein said attachment means (10,
   17) are provided at opposite distal ends of said protective pad (5) and
   provided by at least one pair of protruding flanges (10, 17) for securely and
   releasable attaching said protective pad (5) to said struts (3) of the face
   guard (2).
15
   3. A sports helmet according to claim 2, wherein said flanges (10, 17) at their
   free end having a mutual distance which is shorter than a mutual distance
   between the flanges (10, 17) measured at a point at half a protruding length
   of the flanges (10, 17).
20
   4. A sports helmet according to claim 2, wherein at least one of said flanges
   (10, 17) curves in order to partly embrace a strut or wire (3) of said face
   guard (2), said flange (10) embracing said strut or wire (3) and having an
   opening with an angle a, which angle is more than 900 and less than 1800,
25 preferably between 1000 and 1300 relative to a contact point (23) between
   said protective pad (5) and said strut or wire (3) of said face guard (2).
   5. A sports helmet according to claim 2, wherein at least one of said flanges
   (10, 17) curves in order to partly embrace a strut or wire (3) of said face
30 guard (2), said flange (10) embraces said strut or wire (3) and having an

                                           15
   opening between end points (21, 22) of said flanges (10, 17) with a distance
   which is smaller than the diameter of said strut or wire (3).
   6. A sports helmet according to one or more of claims 2, 3, 4 or 5, wherein at
 5 least one of said protruding flanges (10, 17) is elastic providing a retaining
   force, attaching the protective pad (5) to a rearward strut or wire (3) of said
   face guard (2) by at least partly embracing a part of a strut or wire (3) at a
   rearward part (3) of said face guard (2).
10 7 A sports helmet according to one or more of claims 2 - 6, wherein at least
   one of said flanges (10, 17) are provided with a cut-out (12) for receiving a
   strut (4), which strut (4) is fastened to said rearward part (3) of said face
   guard (2)
15 8. A sports helmet according to one or more of claims 1 - 7 wherein said
   attachment means (10, 17) at an upper part of said protective pad (5) are
   positioned closer to an outer side (19) of the protective pad (5) and at a lower
   part of said protective pad (5) said attachment means (10, 17) are positioned
   closer to a head side (18) of the protective pad (5).
20
   9. A sports helmet according to one or more of claims 1 - 8, wherein said
   protective pad (5) comprises two pad elements (7, 8) connected with one or
   more bendable connection pieces (9) having a cross section smaller than a
   cross section of the two pad elements (7, 8).
25
   10. A sports helmet according to claim 9, wherein said protective pad (5)
   comprises two hollow pad elements (7, 8).
   11. A sports helmet according to claim 9, wherein said protective pad (5)
30 comprises two pad elements (7, 8) each provided with a core of an impact
   absorbent crush foam.

                                          16
   12. A sports helmet according to one or more of claims 9 - 11, wherein said
   protective pad elements (7, 8) at least at one side is provided with a cell
   structure having openings (11).
 5 13. A sports helmet according to claim 12, wherein said cell structure
   comprises a number of elongate openings (16) surrounding a larger opening
   (11) compared to the elongate openings (16).
   14.    A sports helmet according to claim 12 or 13, wherein said larger
10 openings (11) is hexagonal and one or more of the hexagonal openings are
   filled with an impact absorbent crush foam.
   15.    A sports helmet according to claim 9, wherein said one or more
   connection pieces (9) having a height which is less than half the height of the
15 pad elements (7, 8).
   16. Protective pad configured for use in connection with a sports helmet and
   a face guard attached to said helmet, said face guard having a cage type
   construction of interconnected struts capable of surrounding and protecting at
20 least the front and sides of the jaw of a wearer, characterised in that the
   protective pad (5) is provided with attachment means (10, 17) for securely
   attaching said protective pad (5) to said struts (3) of the face guard (2).
   17. A protective pad according to claim 16, wherein said attachment means
25 (10, 17) are provided at opposite distal ends of said protective pad (5) and
   provided by at least one pair of protruding flanges (10, 17) for securely and
   releasable attaching said protective pad (5) to said struts (3) of the face
   guard (2).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
