                                           ABSTRACT
        A wearable device with an optical sensor is disclosed that can be used to recognize
gestures of a user wearing the device. Light sources can be positioned on the back or skin-facing
side of a wearable device, and an optical sensor can be positioned near the light sources. During
operation, light can be emitted from the light sources and sensed using the optical sensor.
Changes in the sensed light can be used to recognize user gestures. For example, light emitted
from a light source can reflect off a wearer's skin, and the reflected light can be sensed using the
optical sensor. When the wearer gestures in a particular way, the reflected light can change
perceptibly due to muscle contraction, device shifting, skin stretching, or the distance changing
between the optical sensor and the wearer's skin. Recognized gestures can be interpreted as
commands for interacting with the wearable device.

           MOTION GESTURE INPUT DETECTED USING OPTICAL SENSORS
                                                  Field
[0001]       This relates generally to optical sensors and, more specifically, to using optical
sensors in a wearable device to recognize gestures of the wearer.
[0001A]      Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2014/015647
(published as WO 2015/119637), filed on 10 February 2014.
                                             Background
[0002]       Optical sensors have been incorporated into a variety of user devices to provide
enhanced functionality and new opportunities for user interaction. Optical sensors for detecting
light, detecting proximity, taking photographs, or the like have been incorporated into mobile
phones (e.g., smartphones), tablet computers, wearable devices (e.g., watches, glasses, etc.), and
other computing devices, allowing software developers to create engaging software applications
("apps") for entertainment, productivity, health, and the like. In some instances, optical sensors
work in conjunction with a variety of other input mechanisms for interacting with a device (e.g.,
touchscreens, buttons, microphones for voice commands, etc.).
[0003]       Many devices, however, can have limited device interaction and control capabilities
due to device size constraints, display size constraints, operational constraints, and the like. For
example, small or thin user devices can have a limited number of physical buttons for receiving
user input. Similarly, small user devices can have touchscreens with limited space for providing
virtual buttons or other virtual user interface elements. In addition, some devices can have
buttons or other interactive elements that are cumbersome or uncomfortable to use in certain
positions or in certain operating conditions. For example, it may be cumbersome to interact with
a device using both hands (e.g., holding a device in one hand while engaging interface elements
with the other). In another example, it may be difficult to press small buttons or engage
touchscreen functions while a user's hands are otherwise occupied or unavailable (e.g., when
wearing gloves, carrying groceries, holding a child's hand, driving, etc.). In still other examples,
device interaction can be limited in a variety of other ways.
                                               Summary
[0004]       Wearable user devices and methods for determining gestures are disclosed. An
exemplary method for determining gestures can include causing light to be emitted from a

wearable user device, sensing a portion of the light that is reflected by a wearer's skin, and
determining a gesture made by the wearer based on changes in the sensed portion of the light. In
one example, the changes in the sensed portion of the light correspond to a change in a distance
between an optical sensor of the wearable user device and the wearer's skin, and sensing the
portion of the light that is reflected by the wearer's skin comprises sensing the portion of the
light using the optical sensor. In another example, the changes in the sensed portion of the light
correspond to a change in an intensity of the sensed portion of the light reflected by the wearer's
skin. In still another example, causing the light to be emitted from the wearable user device can
include causing the light to be emitted from a first LED at a first wavelength and a second LED
at a second wavelength that is different from the first wavelength. In yet another example,
causing the light to be emitted from the wearable user device can include causing the light to be
emitted at an angle relative to the wearable device, wherein the emitted light is incident on the
wearer's skin at a non-perpendicular angle. In another example, sensing the portion of the light
that is reflected by the wearer's skin can include generating a signal based on the sensed portion
of the light using an optical sensor positioned between a first LED and a second LED, wherein
causing the light to be emitted from the wearable user device can include causing the light to be
emitted from the first LED and the second LED. In another example, determining the gesture
based on changes in the sensed portion of the light can include identifying a positive peak, a
negative peak, and a zero crossing in a derivative of a signal generated by an optical sensor used
for sensing the portion of the light that is reflected by the wearer's skin. In still another example,
the gesture comprises a fist clench.
 [0005]      An exemplary non-transitory computer-readable storage medium can include
computer-executable instructions for performing any of the exemplary methods discussed above.
A database can be coupled to the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, and the
database can include gesture recognition data. An exemplary system can include the non
transitory computer-readable storage medium and a processor capable of executing the
computer-executable instructions.
 [0006]      An exemplary wearable device for determining gestures can include a light source
configured to emit light from the device toward a wearer's skin when the wearable device is
wom, an optical sensor configured to generate a signal based on sensing a portion of the light
reflected by the wearer's skin, a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising
computer-executable instructions for determining a gesture made by the wearer based on
changes in the signal, and a processor coupled to receive the signal, wherein the processor is
capable of executing the computer-executable instructions. In one example, the changes in the

signal correspond to a change in a distance between the optical sensor and the wearer's skin. In
another example, the signal generated by the optical sensor changes based on an intensity of the
sensed portion of the light reflected by the wearer's skin. In still another example, the light
source can include a first LED configured to emit light at a first wavelength and a second LED
configured to emit light at a second wavelength that is different from the first wavelength. In yet
another example, the light source can include a first LED and a second LED, and the optical
sensor can be positioned between the first LED and the second LED. In another example, the
light source is angled relative to the wearable device to direct light to be incident on the wearer's
skin at a non-perpendicular angle. In another example, the computer-executable instructions for
determining the gesture include computer-executable instructions for determining the gesture by
identifying a positive peak, a negative peak, and a zero crossing in a derivative of the signal. In
still another example, the gesture comprises a fist clench. In yet another example, the optical
sensor is configured to sense a wavelength of light that corresponds to a wavelength of light
emitted by the light source.
 [0007]      An exemplary system for determining gestures can include a light source configured
to emit light from a wearable user device toward a wearer's skin when the wearable user device
is worn; an optical sensor configured to generate a signal based on sensing a portion of the light
reflected by the wearer's skin; a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including
computer-executable instructions for determining a gesture made by the wearer based on
changes in the signal; a processor coupled to receive the signal, wherein the processor is capable
of executing the computer-executable instructions; and a communication module coupled to the
processor, wherein the communication module is configured to communicate with a mobile
device. In one example, the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium further includes
instructions for communicating a command to the mobile device via the communication module
in response to determining the gesture.
 [0008]      An exemplary computer-implemented method for indirectly determining a hand
gesture using a wearable device worn on a wearer's wrist can include causing light to be emitted
toward the wearer's wrist from a light source of the wearable device, wherein the light source is
positioned proximate to skin at the wearer's wrist; sensing a portion of the light that is reflected
by the skin at the wearer's wrist using an optical sensor of the wearable device, wherein the
optical sensor is positioned proximate to the skin at the wearer's wrist; indirectly determining a
hand gesture made by the wearer based on a change in the sensed portion of the light that is
reflected by the skin at the wearer's wrist, wherein the change results from a distance between
the optical sensor and the skin at the wearer's wrist increasing or decreasing due to the hand

gesture. In one example, the distance between the optical sensor and the skin at the wearer's
wrist increases or decreases less than 1/8th of an inch due to the hand gesture. In another
example, the change in the sensed portion of the light can correspond to an intensity of the
sensed portion of the light increasing or decreasing based on the increasing or decreasing
distance between the optical sensor and the skin at the wearer's wrist. In still another example,
indirectly determining the hand gesture made by the wearer includes sensing the change in the
sensed portion of the light that is reflected by the skin at the wearer's wrist without directly
sensing hand movement of the wearer.
                                 Brief Description of the Drawings
[0009]      FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary wearable device near a user's skin.
[0010]      FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary wearable device separated a distance from a user's
skin.
[0011]      FIG. 3A illustrates the skin-facing or back side of an exemplary wearable device.
[0012]      FIG. 3B illustrates the face or front side of an exemplary wearable device.
[0013]      FIG. 4 illustrates an open hand of a user wearing an exemplary wearable device.
[0014]      FIG. 5 illustrates a clenched fist of a user wearing an exemplary wearable device.
[0015]      FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary waveform of a sensed signal from an optical sensor of
a wearable device.
[0016]      FIG. 7 illustrates an exemplary derivative waveform of a sensed signal from an
optical sensor of a wearable device.
[0017]      FIG. 8 illustrates an exemplary derivative waveform with gesture recognition
thresholds.
[0018]      FIG. 9 illustrates an exemplary process for determining gestures using an optical
sensor of a wearable device.
[0019]      FIG. 10 illustrates an exemplary process for recognizing gestures using an optical
sensor and performing functions corresponding to the recognized gestures.
[0020]      FIG. 11 illustrates an exemplary system for detecting gestures.

                                         Detailed Description
[0021]      In the following description of examples, reference is made to the accompanying
drawings in which it is shown by way of illustration specific examples that can be practiced. It is
to be understood that other examples can be used and structural changes can be made without
departing from the scope of the various examples.
[0022]      This relates to a wearable device with an optical sensor that can be used to recognize
gestures of a user wearing the device. In one example, one or more light sources can be
positioned on the back or skin-facing side of a wearable device, such as a watch, wristband,
armband, leg-band, chest-band, headband, or the like. An optical sensor can be positioned near
the one or more light sources on the same side of the wearable device. During operation, light
can be emitted from the one or more light sources and sensed using the optical sensor. Changes
in the sensed light caused by movements of the user wearing the device can be used to recognize
user gestures. For example, light emitted from a light source can reflect off a wearer's skin, and
the reflected light can be sensed using the optical sensor. When the wearer gestures in some
way, such as by clenching the fist on the arm where the device is worn, the reflected light can
change perceptibly due to muscle contraction, the device shifting on the wrist, skin stretching,
the distance changing between the optical sensor and the wearer's skin, or the like. Various
changing features of the reflected and sensed light can be used to recognize a deliberate gesture,
such as changes in angle of incidence, intensity, position, wavelength, or the like.
[0023]      In some examples, incorporating an optical sensor in a wearable device and using it to
recognize wearer gestures can provide a convenient way to interact with the wearable device.
Such gesture recognition can supplement or even replace other interfaces, such as touchscreens,
buttons, dials, or the like, and it can be used to perform the same or similar functions, such as
selecting a display element, navigating to a different view, changing the time, changing a
display, answering a phone call, or any of a variety of other functions. In some examples, such
gesture recognition can provide one-handed or hands-free device operation, which can provide
convenience as well as safety (e.g., when carrying groceries, driving, or the like). It should be
understood that many other applications are possible, and gesture recognition as discussed herein
can provide a variety of other benefits and enhance a user's experience in many other ways.
[0024]      FIG. 1 illustrates exemplary wearable device 100 near a wearer's skin surface 116. In
one example, wearable device 100 can be configured to be worn on a user's wrist (e.g., as a
bracelet, wristwatch, wristband, etc.), and skin surface 116 could be anywhere around the user's
wrist depending on how the user prefers to wear the device (e.g., with an associated display near

the palm or near the back side of the hand). Wearable device 100 can include, among other
things, light source 104, light source 106, and optical sensor 102.
[0025]       Light sources 104 and 106 can each include a light-emitting diode (LED) or another
light source. In some examples, the light sources can be angled such that the bulk of the emitted
light reflects back toward optical sensor 102 when the device is worn normally (e.g., angled such
that emitted light can be incident on the wearer's skin at a non-perpendicular angle). Angling the
light sources can also avoid arcing between the light source and the sensor (e.g., emitted light
reaching the sensor without first reflecting off a user's skin). For example, light source 104 can
be angled sixty degrees away from vertical toward optical sensor 102, such that the bulk of
emitted light 108 can reflect off skin surface 116 toward optical sensor 102, as illustrated by
reflected light 110. Similarly, light source 106 can be angled sixty degrees away from vertical
toward optical sensor 102, such that the bulk of emitted light 112 can reflect off skin surface 116
toward optical sensor 102, as illustrated by reflected light 114. In other examples, light sources
104 and 106 can be angled more sharply vertical (e.g., thirty degrees from vertical toward optical
sensor 102) or more sharply horizontal.
[0026]       Light sources 104 and 106 can be configured in a variety of different ways for robust
recognition of changes in reflected light 110 and reflected light 114. In one example, light
sources 104 and 106 can include LED's that emit infrared light in the 900nm range. In other
examples, light source 104 can be configured to emit light having a different wavelength than
that of the light emitted by light source 106. In these examples, the light emitted by light source
104 and the light emitted by light source 106 can be selected such that they can be differentiated
by optical sensor 102, and can be visible, ultraviolet, infrared, or other wavelengths. Light
sources 104 and 106 can also be operated differently to allow for distinct reflected light
recognition, such as by pulsing emitted light at different frequencies, emitting light at alternating
intervals, or the like. In some examples, having two separate light sources can aid in
distinguishing between localized movements or whole device movements (e.g., certain muscles
contracting versus an entire device shifting uniformly). In still other examples, however,
wearable device 100 can include a single light source (e.g., either light source 104 or light source
106), more than two light sources, more than one optical sensor, or various other combinations,
or can include an optical sensor that can detect changes in ambient lighting reflected by skin
surface 116 without a dedicated light source.
[0027]       Optical sensor 102 can include a photodiode or other photodetector capable of
converting light into a current, voltage, or other signal. In one example, optical sensor 102 can
convert sensed light into a signal (e.g., current, voltage, etc.) with a magnitude or value that

corresponds to the amount of light received by the sensor. In some examples, optical sensor 102
can be configured to sense particular wavelengths of light (e.g., those generated by light sources
104 and 106) while not sensing others. As illustrated in FIG. 1, distance 118 between skin
surface 116 and wearable device 100 can dictate where reflected light 110 and reflected light 114
are incident on the skin-facing side of wearable device 100. While emitted light and reflected
light are illustrated in FIG. 1 as straight lines for simplicity, it should be understood that light can
spread into a larger beam and reflect at different angles. In the example of FIG. 1, with distance
118 separating wearable device 100 and skin surface 116, reflected light 110 and reflected light
114 are shown striking the edges of optical sensor 102 (e.g., the bulk of the light represented by
straight lines striking the edges). In one example, optical sensor 102 might generate a signal
representative of a relatively small amount of sensed light as much of reflected light 110 and
reflected light 114 might strike the body of wearable device 100 rather than the sensor.
[0028]       In contrast, FIG. 2 illustrates wearable device 100 separated from skin surface 116 by
distance 220, which might be larger than distance 118 of FIG. 1. Light sources 104 and 106 can
generate emitted light 222 and emitted light 226, which can be reflected off skin surface 116 as
reflected light 224 and reflected light 228, respectively. Distance 220 can allow reflected light
224 and reflected light 228 to strike optical sensor 102 near the center of the sensor (as opposed
to striking the edges of the sensor, as in FIG. 1). It should be understood that the simplified
straight light lines in FIG. 2 are illustrated for simplicity, and the light can spread into a larger
beam and reflect at different angles. As such, the more centered light incidence illustrated in
FIG. 2 can signify that more of the spread of light can be received by the sensor than if the
spread of light was incident elsewhere. With more of the spread of light incident near the center,
optical sensor 102 might generate a signal representative of a relatively large amount of sensed
light as the bulk of reflected light 224 and reflected light 228 might strike the sensor itself rather
than other components (e.g., being incident on the sensor rather than the body of wearable device
100). Optical sensor 102 can thus generate distinct signals that can be representative of the
distance between wearable device 100 and skin surface 116.
[0029]       In some examples, a user's hand gesture can account for the difference between
distance 118 in FIG. 1 and distance 220 in FIG. 2. As discussed in more detail below with
reference to FIGS. 4-8, a user can gesture by clenching a fist, moving a finger, bending a wrist,
or the like, which can cause the distance between wearable device 100 and skin surface 116 to
change (e.g., change from distance 118 in FIG. I to distance 220 in FIG. 2). In some examples,
a user's gesture can cause at least a slight shift in a wrist strap associated with a wearable device
or a deformation in a user's skin, which can cause a change in distance between the device and

the user's skin. Similarly, in some instances, contracting muscles can cause the wrist to expand,
which can also change the distance between a wearable device and a user's skin. It should be
understood that many other factors associated with a gesture can cause a change in the distance
between a wearable device and a user's skin. The different signals generated by optical sensor
102 based on different distances can be used to recognize when a user gestures deliberately to
interact with a wearable device.
[0030]      In other examples, factors besides the distance between a wearable device and a skin
surface can be used to recognize a gesture. For example, skin stretching, user perspiration, and
the like can cause perceptible changes in reflected light that optical sensor 102 can detect. In
some examples, light sources 104 and 106 can generate light that can at least partially penetrate
the outer skin layer and reflect in different ways based on muscles contracting, tendons shifting,
tissue compressing, skin stretching, density changing, pressure changing, or the like. In any of
the various examples, optical sensor 102 can sense the reflected light and generate signals based
on how emitted light is modified before being incident on the sensor. Changes in the signals
generated by optical sensor 102 can be used to recognize wearer activity.
[0031]      It should be understood that gesture recognition as discussed herein can be used to
determine hand gestures indirectly by sensing small changes that occur at a wearer's wrist as
opposed to directly sensing movements of a gesturing hand. For example, while a deliberate
gesture might include clenching and unclenching a fist, an increasing or decreasing distance
(e.g., changing less than 1/8th of an inch) between an optical sensor of a wearable device and the
skin at the wearer's wrist can be sensed and used to indirectly recognize the gesture rather than
directly detecting the motion of the clenching and unclenching fist (e.g., finger and palm
movements). Light can be emitted toward the skin at a wearer's wrist, reflect off the skin at the
wearer's wrist, and be sensed by an optical sensor positioned proximate to the skin at the
wearer's wrist. The intensity of the sensed light can increase or decrease based on an increasing
or decreasing distance between the optical sensor and the skin at the wearer's wrist, which
changing distance can result from a deliberate hand gesture as discussed above. Accordingly, by
monitoring small changes in light emitted and sensed at the wearer's wrist, a hand gesture can be
indirectly recognized without directly sensing finger or palm movements.
[0032]      It should further be understood that gesture recognition discussed herein can be
applied to a variety of other body parts beyond the wrist and beyond wearable devices that are
worn on the wrist, and wrist-worn devices discussed herein are provided as non-limiting
examples of gesture recognition using optical sensors. For example, gesture recognition
according to the examples herein can be performed using a device on an armband, leg-band,

chest-band, headband, or the like. Device and skin movements can be detected, and those
detected movements can be used to determine a gesture. For example, a wearable device in a
headband can recognize a deliberate gesture from a user raising one or both eyebrows, causing
the headband device to shift and/or perceptibly altering the skin on the forehead. Similarly, a
wearable device in a leg-band or ankle-band can recognize a deliberate gesture from a user
bending a leg, moving a foot, or the like, causing the leg-band or ankle-band device to shift
and/or perceptibly altering the skin on the leg, ankle, or foot. As with the examples discussed
herein, any movements that cause device shifting, distance changes, skin movements, or the like
can be detected and used for determining a gesture. Accordingly, the various examples
discussed herein can be applied to a variety of devices that can be worn near any part of the skin
anywhere on the body, and gestures can be determined from changes in optical sensor signals of
those various devices.
[0033]      It should further be understood that the proportions, spacing, or layout of light
sources, optical sensors, and wearable devices that can be used to recognize gestures as
discussed herein can vary from those examples illustrated in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2. For example,
light sources and optical sensors can be a fraction of the illustrated size, and light sources and
optical sensors can be positioned adjacent one another in a much smaller space. Moreover,
distances 118 and 220 may be exaggerated, and in some instances, optical sensor 102 can detect
differences in distances that may be imperceptible to the human eye. For example, although a
change in distance between a wearable device and a user's skin may not be apparent to the
wearer when gesturing, optical sensor 102 can be sensitive enough to recognize a slight
difference in distance (e.g., based on a slight change in wrist circumference during a gesture).
[0034]      It should further be understood that wearable device 100 can include a variety of
other components not illustrated or described here, such as a display, touchscreen, buttons, dials,
central processing unit, memory, camera, indicator lights, oscillator, clock, wireless transceivers,
batteries, motions sensors, light sensors, touch sensors, other sensors, or the like. It should also
be understood that gesture recognition using an optical sensor, as discussed herein, can be
implemented in a variety of different wearable devices with a variety of different functions.
[0035]      FIG. 3A illustrates the skin-facing or back side of exemplary wearable device 100. In
one example, wearable device 100 includes a wristwatch or other wearable device, which can be
attached to wrist strap 330 for securing the device to a user's wrist. As illustrated, the skin
facing or back side of wearable device 100 can include light sources 104 and 106 separated by
optical sensor 102. Light sources 104 and 106 can include LED's, which can be positioned
behind glass, plastic, or other transparent windows, or can be positioned behind the same

window. In some examples, optical sensor 102 can also be positioned behind the same or a
different glass, plastic, or other transparent window. Optical sensor 102, and particularly a
sensing or detecting area of optical sensor 102, can be sized to avoid interference from arm hair
and other skin surface variations. For example, optical sensor 102 can be sized several times
larger than a typical arm hair such that the sensor might not be easily blocked from sensing
reflected light.
[0036]       It should be understood that the proportions, spacing, or layout of light sources and
optical sensors that can be used to recognize gestures can vary from the example illustrated in
FIG. 3A. For example, light sources 104 and 106 and optical sensor 102 can be positioned
within wrist strap 330, and wrist strap 330 can include wiring to source power from and enable
communication with wearable device 100. In other examples, light sources 104 and 106 and
optical sensor 102 can be oriented differently (e.g., in-line with wrist strap 330).
[0037]       FIG. 3B illustrates the face or front side of exemplary wearable device 100 secured to
wrist strap 330. In one example, wearable device 100 can include a display 332 on the front
side, and a user can interact with information shown on display 332 using gestures. For
example, images, data, virtual buttons, a clock, applications, music tracks, or the like can be
displayed on display 332, and a user can perform certain gestures to make selections, advance to
a new display, enable the display, return to a home screen, navigate forward, navigate backward,
open a notification, scroll through information, scroll through applications, scroll through songs,
pause playing music, start playing an audio file, answer a phone call, engage a virtual assistant,
or perform any of a variety of other functions. Various gestures can be used to engage these
functions, as discussed in more detail below with reference to FIG. 4 and FIG. 5.
[0038]       In some examples, display 332 can include touchscreen capability that can be used in
addition to or instead of gestures to interact with wearable device 100. Similarly, wearable
device 100 can include a variety of other components not illustrated in FIG. 3A or FIG. 3B or
described here, such as buttons, dials, central processing unit, memory, camera, indicator lights,
oscillator, clock, wireless transceivers, batteries, motions sensors, light sensors, touch sensors,
other sensors, or the like.
[0039]       FIG. 4 illustrates an open hand of a user wearing exemplary wearable device 100. As
mentioned above, a user can interact with wearable device 100 using a variety of gestures that
can cause perceptible changes in light directed to a user's skin, reflected off the user's skin, and
sensed by an optical sensor. A wide variety of movements can cause changes to reflected light
that can alter the signal generated by an optical sensor, and such an altered signal can be
interpreted as a deliberate gesture. Movements that can be interpreted as a deliberate gesture can

include finger movements, hand movements, wrist movements, whole arm movements, or the
like. For example, the open hand in FIG. 4 can be clenched into a fist as shown in FIG. 5 and
opened or unclenched back to the position shown in FIG. 4 as a deliberate gesture for interacting
with wearable device 100.
[0040]       Notably, the wearer's wrist in FIG. 5 can be at least slightly altered as compared to
the wearer's wrist in FIG. 4 (e.g., circumference expanded, skin stretched, muscles contracted,
tendons shifted, tissue compressed, etc.). The at least slight alteration of the wrist from having
an open hand as in FIG. 4 to having a clenched fist as in FIG. 5 can cause the distance between
wearable device 100 and the wearer's skin to change (e.g., increase or decrease). As discussed
above, an optical sensor associated with wearable device 100 can generate a signal that changes
when the distance between the device and the wearer's skin changes, such that the motion of
clenching the user's fist can be perceived along with the subsequent motion of unclenching the
user's fist. In some examples, the sequential clenching and unclenching of the user's fist can be
recognized as a deliberate gesture (e.g., like the equivalent of a mouse cursor click or
touchscreen press to select a virtual button, answer a phone call, navigate forward, etc.).
[0041]       In other examples, other motions can be used as gestures for interacting with
wearable device 100. For example, the wearer can move the thumb inward to touch the palm
and subsequently release the thumb back to its natural position (e.g., the position shown in FIG.
4). In another example, the wearer can contract the fingers (e.g., digits other than the thumb) to
touch the palm and subsequently release them back to their natural position. In yet another
example, the wearer can contract an individual finger (e.g., the index finger, middle finger, etc.)
to touch the palm and subsequently release the finger to its natural position. In still other
examples, the wearer can bend the hand downward at the wrist (e.g., flexion), bend the hand
upward at the wrist (e.g., extension), twist the hand (e.g., pronation or supination), angle the
hand to the left or right (e.g., radial deviation or ulnar deviation), or perform any of a variety of
other deliberate motions that can cause at least slight alterations at the wrist that can be perceived
by an optical sensor sensing changes in incident light.
[0042]       In some examples, wearable device 100 can be configured to uniquely recognize
different gestures for performing different functions as well as recognize different ways of
performing the same gestures as indicating different user intent. For example, a wearer can
clench the fist, hold the clenched fist for a certain amount of time, and subsequently open the
hand to request a function different than one associated with clenching and unclenching the fist
in rapid succession (e.g., as in the difference between a simple mouse cursor click and a double
click). In another example, a wearer can twist the hand in one direction to request one function

(e.g., navigate forward) and twist the hand in the other direction to request a different function
(e.g., navigate backward). In yet another example, a wearer can touch the thumb to the palm to
request one function (e.g., select) and touch the fingers to the palm to request a different function
(e.g., return to a home screen). It should be understood that a variety of different motions can be
perceived and associated with a variety of different functions. In other examples, however, any
of a group of different motions can each be perceived as a user request for the same function
(e.g., any of fist clenching, wrist bending, or thumb touching can be interpreted as a request for
the same function).
[0043]       As wrist shape, size, musculature, and other characteristics vary for different users,
wearable device 100 can be configured in some examples to perform learning or training to adapt
to a particular wearer. For example, an application associated with wearable device 100 can
instruct the wearer to perform certain movements (e.g., instruct to clench and unclench the fist
by displaying the command on the device display, playing the command audibly, or the like). As
the wearer performs the movements, wearable device 100 can monitor how signals generated by
the optical sensor change in response to the requested movements. Wearable device 100 can
then associate changes in the optical sensor signals with particular movements in order to
recognize a deliberate gesture of the specific wearer in the future. In some instances, wearable
device 100 can be trained differently for wearing on different hands or for wearing in different
positions on the wrist (e.g., palm side or back side). In some examples, particular changes in the
optical sensor signal and associated gestures can be stored in a database (e.g., in memory on the
device, remote from the device, on another device, etc.), and sensed changes in the optical sensor
signal can be compared to the stored data to recognize a particular gesture.
[0044]       FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary waveform of a sensed signal from an optical sensor of
a wearable device (e.g., such as from optical sensor 102 of wearable device 100 discussed
above). In one example, the vertical axis can correspond to a magnitude of a signal generated by
an optical sensor over time (e.g., in seconds on the horizontal axis). Such a signal can
correspond to a current, voltage, or similar signal representative of sensed light. For example,
the signal can be a current with units of milliamps, which can be quantized along a scale to
enable comparison, calculation, and gesture recognition (e.g., can be digitized with 24 bits of
precision).
[0045]       The waveform in FIG. 6 can correspond to a user wearing a wearable device with an
optical sensor as discussed herein performing six repeated gestures, each gesture being separated
by a gap of a few seconds. For example, each spike or gesture event 640 can correspond to the
clenching and unclenching of the wearer's fist in rapid succession. As indicated, fist clench 642

can correspond to an increasing magnitude, and subsequent fist release 644 can correspond to a
decreasing magnitude. In some examples, the combination of an increasing magnitude and a
decreasing magnitude in rapid succession can be recognized as a deliberate gesture.
[0046]       In the example illustrated in FIG. 6, the wearable device may have shifted relative to
the corresponding wearer such that more light was sensed when the fist was clenched than when
the fist was unclenched. As such, the waveform can be seen rising in magnitude with fist clench
642 and subsequently falling in magnitude with fist release 644. In other examples, however, the
signal and the associated waveform can vary for different wearers or for the same wearer
performing a different gesture. For example, the magnitude may first fall and then rise in
succession for a different user or for a different gesture (e.g., bending the wrist). In another
example, the peak magnitude of the spike associated with gesture event 640 can be lower or
higher for different users or different gestures. Similarly, the width or the slope of a spike
associated with a gesture event can vary for different users or different gestures (e.g., wider
when holding the fist clenched to indicate a particular user request). It should be understood that
various different gestures and wearer characteristics can produce a variety of different
waveforms that can be used to recognize gesture events (e.g., deliberate user gestures indicating
particular user intent). Moreover, it should be understood that in some examples a wearable
device can learn or be trained to associate unique signals with a particular wearer's gestures.
[0047]       In some examples, given how an optical sensor signal can vary for different users and
different gestures, a derivative of the optical sensor signal can be used to achieve robust gesture
recognition (e.g., while ignoring noise, casual movements, stray light pollution, etc.). FIG. 7
illustrates an exemplary derivative waveform of a sensed signal from an optical sensor of a
wearable device. In one example, the derivative waveform of FIG. 7 can correspond to the raw
signal waveform of FIG. 6. In some examples, positives peaks 750, negative peaks 752, and
zero crossings 754 can be used to positively identify a deliberate user gesture for interacting with
a wearable device. For example, having an occurrence of positive peak 750, followed by zero
crossing 754, followed by negative peak 752 can be sufficient to identify recognized gesture
event 756 (marked by rectangles). In another example, order can vary such that a negative peak
can be followed by a zero crossing and a positive peak and also be identified as a recognized
gesture event. In yet another example, having an occurrence of a positive peak, a negative peak,
and a zero crossing within a certain time window can be sufficient to recognize a gesture.
[0048]       In some examples, gesture recognition thresholds can be used to filter out noise or
other haphazard data and correctly recognize deliberate user gestures for interacting with a
wearable device. FIG. 8 illustrates an exemplary derivative waveform with gesture recognition

thresholds, including positive threshold 860 and negative threshold 862. In one example, for
purposes of recognizing a deliberate gesture, a positive or negative peak in a derivative
waveform can be recognize when outside predetermined thresholds, such as being outside
positive threshold 860 and negative threshold 862. In some examples, peaks or other data
movements within the thresholds can be ignored. For example, minor vibrations or casual hand
motions can lead to significant movements in a raw optical sensor signal as well as in the
derivative of the raw optical sensor signal. To avoid errantly recognizing gestures (e.g., false
positives) from such movements, gesture recognition thresholds can be used to restrict positive
gesture recognition to instances of significant movement outside the thresholds.
[0049]       In other examples, a variety of other techniques and data can be used to positively
recognize deliberate user gestures while filtering out noise and other haphazard data. For
example, concavity changes, zero crossings, time between peaks, peak slope, peak width, and
other data characteristics can be used to limit gesture recognition to particular expected signal
behavior. In this manner, a wearable device can accurately recognize and respond to user
gestures when appropriate, and avoid recognizing user interaction when none was intended.
[0050]       FIG. 9 illustrates exemplary process 970, which can be used according to various
examples discussed herein for determining gestures using an optical sensor in a wearable device.
At block 972, light can be caused to be emitted from a wearable user device. For example, light
can be emitted as discussed above with reference to light source 104 and/or light source 106 of
wearable device 100 in FIG. 1. A light source can include a light-emitting diode (LED) that can
be angled such that the bulk of the emitted light reflects back toward an optical sensor (e.g.,
optical sensor 102) when the device is worn normally (e.g., angled such that emitted light can be
incident on the wearer's skin at a non-perpendicular angle). In some examples, two light sources
can be used, and each light source can be configured to emit light having a different wavelength
than that of the other light source. In such examples, the light emitted by individual light sources
can be selected such that they can be differentiated by an optical sensor, and can be visible,
ultraviolet, infrared, or other wavelengths. Light sources can also be operated differently to
allow for distinct reflected light recognition, such as by pulsing emitted light at different
frequencies, emitting light at alternating intervals, or the like. In some examples, having two
separate light sources can aid in distinguishing between localized movements or whole device
movements (e.g., certain muscles contracting versus an entire device shifting uniformly). In still
other examples, however, a wearable device can include a single light source, more than two
light sources, more than one optical sensor, or various other combinations, or can include an

optical sensor that can detect changes in ambient lighting reflected by a skin surface without a
dedicated light source.
[0051]       Referring again to FIG. 9, at block 974, light can be sensed that is reflected by a
user's skin. For example, reflected light can be sensed as discussed above with reference to
optical sensor 102. Light can be sensed in a variety of ways, such as being sensed with a
photodiode that generates a current, voltage, or other signal representing the relative amount of
light incident on the sensor (e.g., the intensity of received light). In some examples, an optical
sensor can be configured to sense primarily or exclusively light with similar characteristics (e.g.,
wavelength) as light emitted from light sources associated with a wearable device. In one
example, the distance between a skin surface of a user and a wearable device can dictate where
reflected light is incident on the skin-facing side of the wearable device, which can affect the
intensity of light received at the sensor. For example, in a first position relative to a wearer's
skin, an optical sensor might generate a signal representative of a relatively small amount of
sensed light, while in another position relative to a wearer's skin, the optical sensor might
generate a signal representative of a relatively large amount of sensed light given a shift in where
the light is incident relative to the sensor. Movements of the wearable device and the optical
sensor relative to a wearer's skin can thus cause the signal generated by the optical sensor to
change as the intensity of light received at the sensor changes.
[0052]       Referring again to FIG. 9, at block 976, a gesture can be determined based on
changes in sensed light. For example, a gesture event can be determined from a raw optical
sensor signal (e.g., as discussed with reference to FIG. 6), or from the derivative of an optical
sensor signal (e.g., as discussed with reference to FIG. 7 or FIG. 8). A wide variety of
movements can cause changes to reflected light that can alter the signal generated by an optical
sensor, and such an altered signal can be interpreted as a deliberate gesture. Movements that can
be interpreted as a deliberate gesture can include finger movements, hand movements, wrist
movements, whole arm movements, or the like. For example, with a wristwatch-type wearable
device, the wearer's wrist can be at least slightly altered between a clenched fist and an open
hand (e.g., circumference expanded, skin stretched, muscles contracted, tendons shifted, tissue
compressed, etc.). The at least slight alteration of the wrist from having an open hand to having
a clenched fist can cause the distance between the wearable device and the wearer's skin to
change (e.g., increase or decrease). As discussed above, an optical sensor associated with the
wearable device can generate a signal that changes when the distance between the device and the
wearer's skin changes, such that the motion of clenching the user's fist can be perceived along
with the subsequent motion of unclenching the user's fist. In some examples, the sequential

clenching and unclenching of the user's fist can be determined to be a deliberate gesture (e.g.,
like the equivalent of a mouse cursor click or touchscreen press to select a virtual button, answer
a phone call, navigate forward, etc.).
[0053]       In some examples, a derivative of the optical sensor signal can be used for gesture
recognition. For example, having an occurrence of a positive peak, followed by a zero crossing,
followed by a negative peak in the derivative of the optical sensor signal can be sufficient to
determine a deliberate gesture. In another example, order can vary such that a negative peak can
be followed by a zero crossing and a positive peak and also be identified as a deliberate gesture.
In yet another example, having an occurrence of a positive peak, a negative peak, and a zero
crossing within a certain time window can be sufficient to determine a deliberate gesture in a
derivative of an optical sensor signal.
[0054]       In other examples, a variety of other techniques and data can be used to positively
determine deliberate user gestures while filtering out noise and other haphazard data. For
example, concavity changes, zero crossings, time between peaks, peak slope, peak width, and
other data characteristics can be used to limit gesture recognition to particular expected signal
behavior. In this manner, a wearable device can accurately determine and respond to user
gestures when appropriate, and avoid recognizing user interaction when none was intended.
[0055]       In some examples, a determined gesture can be associated with a particular user
request, and a wearable device can respond appropriately to the user request (e.g., a request to
select a virtual button, navigate to a different view, answer a phone call, advance to a different
song, or the like). Gesture recognition can thus be used in some examples to enable a user to
interact with a wearable device without pushing buttons, touching a touchscreen, or the like.
[0056]       FIG. 10 illustrates exemplary process 1080, which can be used according to various
examples discussed herein for recognizing gestures using an optical sensor and performing
functions corresponding to the recognized gestures. At block 1082, gesture recognition can be
enabled upon user engagement with a wearable device. In some examples, light sources and an
optical sensor integrated into a wearable device for gesture recognition can be disabled, kept off,
or used for functions other than gesture recognition when deliberate gestures may be unlikely
(e.g., when a wearer is not engaging the device, when no one is wearing the device, when a
wearer is running, etc.). Disabling gesture recognition using the light sources and optical sensor
can conserve battery power, avoid false gesture detection, free them to be used for other
functions, or the like.

[0057]       Upon recognizing that a user is engaged with a device, gesture recognition can be
automatically enabled (e.g., the light sources and optical sensor can be enabled for recognizing
gestures). A variety of methods can be used to recognize that a user is engaged with a wearable
device. For example, other sensors in the wearable device can be used to detect that a user has
raised the wearable device, angled it toward the user's face, and is looking at the display (e.g.,
using an accelerometer, gyroscope, camera, proximity sensor, light sensor, or the like). In
another example, a user can press a button, touch a touchscreen, say a command, shake the
device, or the like to commence engagement with the wearable device. In yet another example,
sensors in the wearable device can be used to detect that a user is both not moving and actively
looking at the display before enabling active gesture recognition, as movement could lead to
artifacts and false gesture detection. In still other examples, light sources and an optical sensor
can be enabled at times when a user is not engaging the device, but signals generated by the
optical sensor can be ignored or discarded until user engagement is detected.
[0058]       At block 1084, light can be caused to be emitted from a wearable user device (e.g., as
described with reference to block 972 of process 970). At block 1086, light can be sensed that is
reflected by a user's skin (e.g., as described with reference to block 974 of process 970). At
block 1088, a determination can be made as to whether changes in sensed light indicate a
deliberate user gesture (e.g., a gesture intended to cause a functional response by the wearable
device). For example, a deliberate gesture can be recognized from a raw optical sensor signal
(e.g., as discussed with reference to FIG. 6), or from the derivative of an optical sensor signal
(e.g., as discussed with reference to FIG. 7 or FIG. 8).
[0059]       If no gesture is indicated by changes in sensed light (e.g., the "no" branch of block
1088), light can again be caused to be emitted at block 1084 and reflected light can again be
sensed at block 1086. In some examples, polling cycles can be repeated of causing light to be
emitted and sensing reflected light to determine whether a user has performed a deliberate
gesture. Consecutive polling cycles can be separated by a time interval, or they can be
continuous until a gesture is detected or another event breaks the cycle (e.g., device powers off,
user engagement terminates, a timeout interval passes, etc.).
[0060]       If a gesture is indicated by changes in sensed light (e.g., the "yes" branch of block
1088), a function corresponding to the recognized gesture can be performed at block 1090. For
example, a particular recognized gesture can indicate a user's desired intent to answer an
incoming call, so the function of answering the incoming call can be performed. In other
examples, recognized gestures in other contexts can correspond to a variety of other functions
that can be performed upon recognizing a user's deliberate gesture (e.g., navigate forward,

navigate backward, pause music, open a notification, etc.). In some examples, after performing
the function corresponding to the recognized gesture at block 1090, gesture recognition can
continue (e.g., at block 1084) to allow a user to continue interacting with a wearable device using
gestures. In other examples, gesture recognition can be disabled upon performance of a function
at block 1090, or when the wearable device is powered off, a user ceases to engage the device, a
timeout interval passes, or the like.
[0061]      Although various examples herein demonstrate how gesture recognition can be used
to interact with a wearable device, it should be understood that gesture recognition can be used to
interact with other devices as well. In some examples, a user can effectively generate commands
using gestures that a wearable device can communicate to any of a variety of other devices, such
as a mobile phone, television, audio system, media player, game console, lighting system,
security system, tablet computer, or the like. For example, a wearable device can be in
communication with a media player (e.g., via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, the Internet etc.), and the wearer
can perform a recognizable gesture. In response to recognizing the gesture, the wearable device
can transmit a corresponding command to the media player, such as navigate through a menu,
pause playback, select content for display, or the like. In another example, a wearable device
can be in communication with a mobile telephone (e.g., via Bluetooth), and the wearer can
perform a recognizable gesture. In response to recognizing the gesture, the wearable device can
transmit a corresponding command to the mobile telephone, such as answer a phone call, silence
a ringtone, emit a sound to help locate the phone, or the like. It should be understood that
gesture recognition can be employed for still many other device-to-device interactions.
[0062]      In addition, although various examples herein demonstrate how gesture recognition
can be achieved using a light source and an optical sensor, it should be understood that various
other sensors and elements can be used in conjunction with a light source and an optical sensor
to recognize deliberate user gestures for interacting with a wearable device. For example,
accelerometers and/or gyroscopes can be used to detect movement and determine whether
optical sensor signals represent deliberate gestures instead of artifacts of other random user
movements. Similarly, certain gestures can yield unique optical sensor signals concurrently with
unique accelerometer and/or gyroscope signals, and the simultaneously occurrence of a
combination of such signals can be used to positively recognize a deliberate gesture. In other
examples, other device elements, sensors, and signal combinations can be used to avoid false
gesture detection and correctly recognize deliberate user gestures.
[0100]      One or more of the functions described above relating to determining gestures can be
performed by a system similar or identical to system 1100 shown in FIG. 11. System 1100 can

include instructions stored in a non-transitory computer readable storage medium, such as
memory 1102 or storage device 1101, and executed by processor 1105. The instructions can also
be stored and/or transported within any non-transitory computer readable storage medium for use
by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a
computer-based system, processor-containing system, or other system that can fetch the
instructions from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the
instructions. In the context of this document, a "non-transitory computer readable storage
medium" can be any medium that can contain or store the program for use by or in connection
with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. The non-transitory computer
readable storage medium can include, but is not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical,
electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus or device, a portable computer
diskette (magnetic), a random access memory (RAM) (magnetic), a read-only memory (ROM)
(magnetic), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM) (magnetic), a portable
optical disc such as CD, CD-R, CD-RW, DVD, DVD-R, or DVD-RW, flash memory such as
compact flash cards, secured digital cards, USB memory devices, memory sticks, and the like, or
any type of database.
[0101]      The instructions can also be propagated within any transport medium for use by or in
connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer-based
system, processor-containing system, or other system that can fetch the instructions from the
instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the instructions. In the context of
this document, a "transport medium" can be any medium that can communicate, propagate, or
transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system,
apparatus, or device. The transport medium can include, but is not limited to, an electronic,
magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, or infrared wired or wireless propagation medium.
[0102]      System 1100 can also include an input/output ("I/O") module, such as I/O module
1103, which can enable processor 1105 to communicate with other components of system 1100
as well as peripherals, devices, servers, databases, and the like. For example, I/O module 1103
can include a transceiver, radio, modem, or the like that can enable processor 1105 to
communicate with an external device through wired or wireless communication means,
including LAN, WAN, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular, or the like.
[0103]      System 1100 can further include touch sensitive display 1107 coupled to processor
1105 for detecting touch and displaying information. It is to be understood that the system is not
limited to the components and configuration of FIG. 11, but can include other or additional
components in multiple configurations according to various examples. Additionally, the

components of system 1100 can be included within a single device, or can be distributed among
multiple devices. In some examples, processor 1105 can be located within touch sensitive
display 1107.
[0104]       Therefore, according to the above, some examples of the disclosure are directed to a
computer-implemented method for determining gestures, the method comprising: causing light
to be emitted from a wearable user device; sensing a portion of the light that is reflected by a
wearer's skin; and determining a gesture made by the wearer based on changes in the sensed
portion of the light. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples the changes in the sensed portion of the light correspond to a change in
a distance between an optical sensor of the wearable user device and the wearer's skin; and
sensing the portion of the light that is reflected by the wearer's skin comprises sensing the
portion of the light using the optical sensor. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples the changes in the sensed portion of the light
correspond to a change in an intensity of the sensed portion of the light reflected by the wearer's
skin. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
examples causing the light to be emitted from the wearable user device comprises: causing the
light to be emitted from a first LED at a first wavelength and a second LED at a second
wavelength that is different from the first wavelength. Additionally or alternatively to one or
more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples causing the light to be emitted from the
wearable user device comprises: causing the light to be emitted at an angle relative to the
wearable device, wherein the emitted light is incident on the wearer's skin at a non-perpendicular
angle. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
examples sensing the portion of the light that is reflected by the wearer's skin comprises:
generating a signal based on the sensed portion of the light using an optical sensor positioned
between a first LED and a second LED; and causing the light to be emitted from the wearable
user device comprises causing the light to be emitted from the first LED and the second LED.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples
determining the gesture based on changes in the sensed portion of the light comprises:
identifying a positive peak, a negative peak, and a zero crossing in a derivative of a signal
generated by an optical sensor used for sensing the portion of the light that is reflected by the
wearer's skin. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in
some examples the gesture comprises a fist clench.
[0105]       According to the above, other examples of the disclosure are directed to a non
transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-executable instructions for

performing any of the methods described above; and a database can be coupled to the non
transitory computer-readable storage medium, wherein the database comprises gesture
recognition data.
[0106]      According to the above, other examples of the disclosure are directed to a system
comprising: the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium discussed above; and a
processor capable of executing the computer-executable instructions.
[0107]      According to the above, other examples of the disclosure are directed to a wearable
device for determining gestures, the device comprising: a light source configured to emit light
from the device toward a wearer's skin when the wearable device is wom; an optical sensor
configured to generate a signal based on sensing a portion of the light reflected by the wearer's
skin; a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-executable
instructions for determining a gesture made by the wearer based on changes in the signal; and a
processor coupled to receive the signal, wherein the processor is capable of executing the
computer-executable instructions. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
disclosed above, in some examples the changes in the signal correspond to a change in a distance
between the optical sensor and the wearer's skin. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of
the examples disclosed above, in some examples the signal generated by the optical sensor
changes based on an intensity of the sensed portion of the light reflected by the wearer's skin.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples
the light source comprises a first LED configured to emit light at a first wavelength and a second
LED configured to emit light at a second wavelength that is different from the first wavelength.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples
the light source comprises a first LED and a second LED; and the optical sensor is positioned
between the first LED and the second LED. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples the light source is angled relative to the wearable
device to direct light to be incident on the wearer's skin at a non-perpendicular angle.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples
the computer-executable instructions for determining the gesture comprise computer-executable
instructions for determining the gesture by identifying a positive peak, a negative peak, and a
zero crossing in a derivative of the signal. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples the gesture comprises a fist clench. Additionally or
alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the optical
sensor is configured to sense a wavelength of light that corresponds to a wavelength of light
emitted by the light source.

[0108]       According to the above, other examples of the disclosure are directed to a system for
determining gestures, the system comprising: a light source configured to emit light from a
wearable user device toward a wearer's skin when the wearable user device is worn; an optical
sensor configured to generate a signal based on sensing a portion of the light reflected by the
wearer's skin; a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising computer
executable instructions for determining a gesture made by the wearer based on changes in the
signal; a processor coupled to receive the signal, wherein the processor is capable of executing
the computer-executable instructions; and a communication module coupled to the processor,
wherein the communication module is configured to communicate with a mobile device.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples
the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium further comprises instructions for
communicating a command to the mobile device via the communication module in response to
determining the gesture.
[0109]       According to the above, other examples of the disclosure are directed to a computer
implemented method for indirectly determining a hand gesture using a wearable device worn on
a wearer's wrist, the method comprising: causing light to be emitted toward the wearer's wrist
from a light source of the wearable device, wherein the light source is positioned proximate to
skin at the wearer's wrist; sensing a portion of the light that is reflected by the skin at the
wearer's wrist using an optical sensor of the wearable device, wherein the optical sensor is
positioned proximate to the skin at the wearer's wrist; indirectly determining a hand gesture
made by the wearer based on a change in the sensed portion of the light that is reflected by the
skin at the wearer's wrist, wherein the change results from a distance between the optical sensor
and the skin at the wearer's wrist increasing or decreasing due to the hand gesture. Additionally
or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the distance
between the optical sensor and the skin at the wearer's wrist increases or decreases less than
1/8th of an inch due to the hand gesture. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples the change in the sensed portion of the light
corresponds to an intensity of the sensed portion of the light increasing or decreasing based on
the increasing or decreasing distance between the optical sensor and the skin at the wearer's
wrist. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
examples indirectly determining the hand gesture made by the wearer comprises: sensing the
change in the sensed portion of the light that is reflected by the skin at the wearer's wrist without
directly sensing hand movement of the wearer.

[0110]       Although examples have been fully described with reference to the accompanying
drawings, it is to be noted that various changes and modifications will become apparent to those
skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be understood as being included within
the scope of the various examples as defined by the appended claims.

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.      A method for operating a wearable device, the method comprising:
        enabling gesturing recognition function, the gesture recognition function comprising:
                emitting light from the wearable device using one or more light sources;
                         detecting at least a portion of the emitted light using one or more optical
                sensors, the portion of the emitted light being light that has reflected off a
                wearer's skin to fonr reflected light;
                         generating one or more optical sensor signals indicative of the reflected
                light; and
                         determining a gesture based on one or more characteristics of the one or
                more optical sensor signals, wherein the determination of the gesture includes
                determining whether the one or more optical sensor signals meet one or more
                criteria associated with a deliberate gesture.
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics includes one or
more of a slope of a peak of the one or more optical sensor signals, a width of a peak of the one
or more optical sensor signals, zero crossings of the one or more optical sensor signals, and
concavity changes of the one or more optical sensor signals.
        3.      The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the one or more optical
sensor signals meets one or more criteria includes:
        determining one or more derivative signals of the one or more optical sensor signals;
        classifying portions of the one or more derivative signals as positive peaks, negative
peaks, and zero crossings; and
        determining an order of the positive peaks, the negative peaks, and the zero crossings in
the one or more derivative signals as a function of time.
        4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more criteria include the order of the
one or more derivative signals including one of the positive peaks, followed by one of the zero
crossings, followed by one of the negative peaks.

        5.      The method of claim 3, wherein determining whether the one or more optical
sensor signals meet one or more criteria includes determining whether the order occurs within a
predetermined time window.
        6.      The method of claim 1, wherein determining the gesture based on one or more
characteristics of the one or more optical sensor signals includes:
        detecting changes in the one or more optical sensor signals;
        associating the detected changes with one or more movements; and
        determining the gesture based on the one or more movements.
        7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the gesture is determined based on a sequence of
the one or more movements.
        8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics of the one or
more optical sensor signals includes an increase in magnitude of the one or more optical sensor
signals and the determined gesture includes a clench of the wearer.
        9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        associating the one or more characteristics of the one or more optical sensor signals with
the wearer; and
        storing the associated one or more characteristics in a database, specific to the wearer.
        10.     The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria include a positive
threshold and a negative threshold for a respective characteristic, further comprising ignoring
data from the one or more optical sensor signals that has a magnitude between the positive and
negative thresholds.
        11.     The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more light sources includes a first light
source and a second light source, and wherein emitting light from the wearable device using the
one or more light sources includes emitting a first light from the first light source and emitting a
second light from the second light source, wherein the first light and the second light have one or
more different properties.
        12.     The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more light sources includes at least
two light sources, the method further comprising distinguishing between localized movements

and whole device movements using the one or more optical sensor signals associated with the at
least two light sources.
        13.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        detecting an engagement with the device of the wearer; and
        automatically enabling the gesture recognition function when the engagement is detected.
        14.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        executing a plurality of polling cycles, each polling cycling including the determination
of the gesture, wherein consecutive polling cycles are separated by one or more of a time interval
or an event.
        15.     A wearable device capable comprising:
        one or more light sources configured to emit light towards a wearer's skin;
        one or more optical sensors configured to:
                        detect at least a portion of the emitted light, the portion of the emitted light
                being light that has reflected off the wearer's skin to form reflected light, and
                        generate one or more optical sensor signals indicative of the detected
                reflected light; and
        a processor configured to:
                enable a gesture recognition function;
                receive the one or more optical sensor signals,
                determine whether the one or optical sensor signals meet one or more criteria
        associated with a deliberate gesture, and
                determine a gesture based on one or more characteristics of the one or more
        optical sensor signals.
        16.     The wearable device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to
cause at least two of the one or more light sources to pulse at different frequencies to emit the
light.
        17.     The wearable device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to
cause at least two of the one or more light sources to emit light at alternating intervals to form
the emitted light.

        18.     The wearable device of claim 15, further comprising at least one of a motion
sensor, camera, and a proximity sensor configured to measure parameters associated with an
engagement of the wearer with the device, wherein the processor is further configured to
automatically enable the gesture recognition function upon determining the wearer is engaging
with the device.
        19.     The wearable device of claim 18, wherein the motion sensor is at least one of an
accelerometer and a gyrometer.
        20.     The wearable device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to
disable the gesture recognition function when the device is not in use.

                                                                                                                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>                                     <U+2701><U+275D>
                                                <U+2665>    <U+273D><U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2701><U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2665>    <U+2735>
                                             ts<U+275B>     <U+2736>                                                                                                    ts<U+275B>     <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                <U+2749>                                                                                                            <U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                          <U+275E><U+2701>                     <U+2704><U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+273B>
                                <U+2701><U+275D>                        tt                     t<U+2736>                                                          <U+2701><U+275D>                       <U+275E><U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                      tt
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>t
                                r<U+2709>                        <U+2660>                      <U+2764><U+2763>                                                          r<U+2709>
                           <U+2702>             <U+273B>                <U+274A>                      <U+25B2>                                                      <U+2702>             <U+273B>               <U+2660>                <U+2764><U+2763>
                                     <U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                           <U+2735><U+2736>                  <U+274A>
                           t<U+2759>                                                                                                           t<U+2759>                                             <U+25B2>
                           <U+2764><U+2763>                                                                                                           <U+2764><U+2763>
                           <U+25B2>                                                                                                            <U+25B2>
                                                                                           <U+275E><U+2701>     <U+2739>                                                                                                       <U+275E><U+2701>          <U+273D>
                                                                                           t<U+275D>          <U+2736><U+2736>                                                                                                 t<U+275D>     <U+2704>
                                                                                                  t                                                                                                              <U+2704>t
                                                                                           <U+2767><U+2701><U+2762>    <U+2764><U+2763>                                                                                                      <U+2767><U+2701><U+2762>    <U+2764><U+2763>
                                                                                              <U+2701>                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                              |   <U+25B2>                                                                                                          |   <U+25B2>
                                                                        <U+2735><U+2736>            <U+273B>                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                r                                                                                                            r
                           <U+2702>s                                           t<U+2736>            <U+2736><U+2736>                                                <U+2702>s
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275E><U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2736><U+2736>
                                <U+2665>                                       <U+2764><U+2763>            <U+2701><U+275D>                    <U+260E>                                <U+2665>                                                  <U+2739>    <U+2701><U+275D>                   <U+2737>
                                <U+2701>                                                                               <U+2733>                            <U+2701>                             t<U+275D>                   <U+2704>                         <U+2733>
                                     <U+2704>                                  <U+25B2>             <U+275B><U+2762>                                                          <U+2704>                                             <U+2704>t   <U+275B><U+2762>
                           <U+2767><U+2759>        <U+2735>
                                         <U+2736>                              <U+275E><U+2701>            r
                                                                                      <U+2709>                         <U+25CF>                      <U+2767><U+2759>        <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>                    <U+2767><U+2701><U+2762>                  <U+2764><U+2763>   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2709>                    <U+25CF>
                                <U+275B><U+275D>                                      t<U+275D>                                                                   <U+275B><U+275D>                               <U+2701>
                           t                                                          <U+2759>                         <U+274B>                       t                                                       <U+25B2>    <U+2759>                    <U+274B>
                                                                                      <U+2665>                                                                                       |                      <U+2665>
                           <U+2663>                                            <U+2767><U+2701><U+2762>           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2766>
                           <U+2756>                                                 <U+2701>        <U+2759>                                                 <U+2756>                                                            <U+2759>
                                                                             |
                                <U+2701><U+275D>                                                                                                           <U+2701><U+275D>
                                r<U+2709>                                                                                                           r<U+2709>
                           <U+2702>         <U+2739>                                                                                                  <U+2702>         <U+2739>                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735><U+2736>                              <U+2704>
                 <U+2701><U+275D>        t<U+2759>
                                     <U+2735><U+2736>
                                                                    <U+273D>                                                         <U+2701><U+275D>        t<U+2759>                                        <U+2704>t
                           <U+2764><U+2763>                                  <U+2735><U+2736>                                                                       <U+2764><U+2763>                                        <U+2764><U+2763>
                 <U+2708>                                             t                                                              <U+2708>         <U+25B2>
                 <U+2701>         <U+25B2>                                   <U+2764><U+2763>                                                             <U+2701>                                                   <U+25B2>
                 <U+2749>    <U+2735>                                                                                                       <U+2749>    <U+2735>                                              <U+275E><U+2701>
              <U+2767><U+2701><U+275C>     <U+2735><U+2736>                                       <U+25B2>                                                           <U+2767><U+2701><U+275C>     <U+2735><U+2736>                                             tt
                 <U+275B>r                                            <U+275E><U+2701>                                                             <U+275B>r
                 <U+275B><U+2701>                                            tt                                                             <U+275B><U+2701>                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                 <U+2772>                                             <U+2660>                                                              <U+2772>
                                                               <U+274A>

                                                                                <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                  <U+2663>
                          <U+275B>
                  tr
                          <U+2759>       <U+2735>
                  t
<removed-apn>
                  s
                          r
                          <U+2772>
                                                                        <U+2461>                                             <U+2747>
                                                                        <U+2767><U+275B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                 <U+2704>                                        <U+2733>
                                                                        <U+2663>
                                                                        s
                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                            <U+2749>                                             
                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                      <U+2767><U+2701>
                                        <U+275C>   <U+2701>
                                        <U+275B>   <U+275D>   <U+2735>
                                        r   <U+2708>   <U+2735>
                                        <U+275B>   <U+2701>       <U+2736>
                                        <U+2701>
                                            <U+2749>
                                        <U+2772>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
              <U+2663>                                                                                   <U+275D>
                                                                                                  r
                      <U+275B>                                                                           <U+2709>
              tr                                                                              <U+2702>                   <U+273B>
                      <U+2759>       <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2759>           <U+2735>
              t                                                                               t                   <U+2736>
              s                                                                               <U+2764>
                      r                                                                       <U+2763>
                      <U+2772>                                 <U+2702>
                                                            r
                                                                                              <U+25B2>                       <U+2746>
                                                        s
                                                            <U+2665>
                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                            <U+2701>                                                             <U+2733>
                                                            <U+2759>   <U+2704>
                                                        <U+2767>       <U+2735>                                                         <U+25CF>
                                                            <U+275B>       <U+2736>                                                     
                                                            <U+275D>                                                             <U+274B>
                                                        t                                 <U+2701>
                                                        <U+2663>                                 <U+275D>
                                                                                          r
                                                        <U+2756>                                 <U+2709>
                                                                                      <U+2702>               <U+2739>
                                                                                          <U+2759>           <U+2735>
                                                                                      t                   <U+2736>
                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                      <U+2767><U+2701>
                                        <U+275C>   <U+2701>
                                        <U+275B>   <U+275D>   <U+2735>
                                        r   <U+2708>   <U+2735>
                                        <U+275B>   <U+2701>       <U+2736>
                                        <U+2701>
                                            <U+2749>
                                        <U+2772>

                                <U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2701>
                <U+275D>
                <U+2708>
                <U+2701>
                <U+2749>
                    <U+2735>
              <U+2767><U+2701>    <U+2735>
                <U+275C>
                <U+275B>
                r
                        <U+2736>
                            <U+2739>                <U+273A>
                <U+275B>           <U+2733>                    <U+2733>
                <U+2701>
                            <U+25CF>                    <U+25CF>
                <U+2772>                               
                            <U+274B>                    <U+274B>
                                     <U+2735>
                                     <U+2735>
                                         <U+2736>
                                         <U+2701>
                                         <U+275D>
                                         <U+2708>
                                         <U+2701>
                                         <U+2749>
                                     <U+2767><U+2701>
                                         <U+275C>
                                         <U+275B>
                                         r
                                         <U+275B>
                                         <U+2701>
                                         <U+2772>

                                                                               <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2767>                                                   ss                     <U+2701>
                                                                                         <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                 ss
                  <U+275B>                                                                  t
                  <U+2665>                                               <U+275E>                                                                                              <U+275E>
              <U+2763>
                                          s
                                              <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                       <U+2665>   <U+273B>             <U+275B>
                                                                                         <U+2708>                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>   <U+273C>
                  <U+2759>           t                           <U+2739>            <U+275D>   <U+2733>             r                                                                            <U+275D>   <U+2733>
                              s               <U+275B>                                          <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2701>                                                                                              <U+2701>
              <U+275E>
                  <U+2701>           <U+274B>           <U+2767><U+2701>
                                              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2739>
                                                              <U+273B>   <U+272D>
                                                                  s        <U+25CF>
                                                                                    <U+2767>
                                                                                         <U+2749>                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                 s        <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                          
              s
                  <U+2665>                           |                        <U+2701>                 <U+275B>                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+274B>             <U+2665>                                                                                <U+274B>
                  <U+2701>                                               <U+2660>                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                     <U+2763>
                  <U+2759>                                               <U+275A>                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+275A>
                                  <U+2764>                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                      <U+275D>                                                                                                                      <U+273B>
                                      <U+2665>                                                                                          <U+2462><U+2701>                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                     r   <U+273A>
                                  <U+2767><U+2701>              <U+2704>                                                          <U+2763>                       <U+2665>               <U+2709>
                                  <U+2748>               <U+2739>
                                                      <U+273B>                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                 <U+2665>
                                                                                                                     <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                         t
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2665>
                                  t
                                  s
                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                             s       <U+273A>               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2708>
                                  <U+274B>                                                                      <U+2769>   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+274A>
                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                             <U+2748>                       |
                      <U+2739>
                          <U+273B>                                                                  <U+2735>
                      t
                          <U+2665>
                                                                                             <U+273A>
                          <U+2701>                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                          <U+2708>                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                             <U+2708>           <U+273A>
                      <U+274A>                                                                          <U+2701>                       t
                          <U+2701>
                          r
                                                                                             P                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                             <U+275B>               <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                             <U+275B>
                                                                                                 <U+2701>                           <U+2701>
                      t<U+2709>                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                      s                                                                      t
                                                                                                 <U+2708>                       <U+25C6>               P
                          <U+2701>
                      <U+25CF>                                                                      s
                                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                             P
                              <U+2761><U+275E><U+2709>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763><U+275B><U+25BC>                                                                      <U+2761><U+275E><U+2709>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763><U+275B><U+25BC>

                                                                    <U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2701>
                  <U+2708>                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                  s
              t                                                                                                                   <U+275E>
                  <U+275B>
                  <U+2708>                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>   <U+273D>
                  r                                                                                                                   <U+275D>       <U+2733>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                  <U+2749>                                                                                                               s           <U+25CF>
              <U+2767>                                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                              
                  <U+275B>                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                  <U+2665>                                                                                                                           <U+274B>
              <U+2763>                                                                                                                   <U+2660>
                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                     <U+2701>           <U+275E><U+2767>                   <U+2701>
                                      <U+275E><U+2767>                                                                              r
                                                                                     <U+2708>           <U+2702>
                                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2702>                                          t               <U+2764>        <U+2704>       t<U+2709>
                                  <U+2708>                                                  <U+275B>           s                s
                              t       <U+2764>        <U+2735>                                                              <U+273B>
                                      s                                          <U+2763>                    <U+2701>       <U+273D>       <U+2701>       <U+273B>
                              s                    <U+273B>                                                  r
                                           <U+2701>       <U+273D>                                 <U+2701>
                              <U+2702>            r                                                     <U+2764>
                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                      <U+2764>                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                  <U+275E>       t
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                 <U+275A>
                              P
                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2665>       <U+2708>
                      <U+2735>                                                                                           <U+2763>       <U+274A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                      <U+273A>
                                                                             <U+2701>           <U+2704>                            <U+2701>
                          <U+2766>
                          <U+275B>                                                  <U+2708>           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                      |
                          <U+2701>                                              t
                                                                             <U+275B>               <U+2766>
                      P
                                                                         <U+2763>                   <U+275B>
                          <U+2701>                                                  <U+2701>               <U+2701>
                          <U+2708>
                      t
                                                                         <U+25C6>
                                                                                         P
                      s
                      <U+2702>
                      P
                                                              <U+2735>
                                                       <U+2761><U+275E><U+2709>   t<U+2710>   <U+2665><U+2763><U+275B><U+25BC>

                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>                           <U+2704>
                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                    <U+2739>
                                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                                                                                            <U+273B>
                                                                                                                            <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2735>
                                      <U+2735>                                             <U+2735>                                   <U+2735>                                                   <U+2735>                                                       <U+2735>
                                          <U+2736>                                             <U+2736>                                   <U+2736>                                                   <U+2736>                                                           <U+2736>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+275E>
                                  <U+2665>                                                                 <U+2701>           <U+275E>                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                              <U+2702>               t                   <U+275E>                                 <U+275D>               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                t
                              t                   <U+2665>               t<U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2462>
                                                                  t                                 <U+2708>               <U+275D>                                                                   <U+2701>                                                                    <U+2665>
                                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                 t
                                  <U+2665>                                                                 <U+2701>           <U+2767><U+2701>                                                                      <U+275B>                                               <U+2665>               <U+2763>
                              <U+2763>               <U+2660>                   <U+2660>                             <U+275E>                   <U+2762>                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>                                                                                     <U+2701>                       <U+2665>                                           <U+275D>                                       <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2701>                    <U+2701>                            r                                                                                                                                                        <U+275D>
                                  <U+275D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                  <U+275B>                    <U+2701>                        s
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                        s
                                                                                                                                            <U+2766>                   <U+2665>                   <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2665>               <U+2744>               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+275D>                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2735>
                                  r                                    <U+275C>                                                                                    s                                               <U+2701>                           <U+2665>                                <U+260E>
                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                  <U+2665>               <U+2702>t
                                                                                                    <U+2709>           t
                                                                                                                    <U+275B>                   <U+2786>sr                     <U+2701>                   t
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2709>       <U+2733>
                                  r                                                             <U+2767><U+2701>                                                          <U+2763>                                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2461>
                                                  <U+2701>                                                             <U+2764>                           <U+2701>                   <U+2665>                   <U+2763>                                                                   <U+2763>        s
                              t<U+2709>                  r               t                                 <U+275C>           t
                                                                                                                                        s                       <U+275B>                   <U+2767>                   s                       <U+2660>                            <U+2665>       <U+2701>       <U+25CF>
                              s                                   <U+2764>                                 <U+275B>           t                                                                                           <U+2701>                           r
                                                  <U+2701>                                                 r                                       <U+2709>               <U+2764>                       <U+275E>                                           <U+2702>                       <U+275E>        <U+2763>           
                                  <U+2701>           s                   <U+2763>                                             <U+2764>                                                                                       <U+2763>                               <U+2762>
                              <U+2763>                                   <U+2767>                                 <U+275B>           <U+2763>                                                                       <U+2701>                                               r                    <U+2665>               <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2709>                                                 <U+2701>           <U+2767>                                                                   s                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                            <U+275C>
                              <U+2767><U+2701>
                                              <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2665>               s
                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                <U+2707>                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                       <U+2709>                                        s
              s                   <U+275B>           <U+2663>                                                 <U+2660>                   <U+2665>                                                               s                                                                        <U+2701>
              s                                                        <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                      <U+2735>           <U+2665>               <U+2709>                                             <U+2702>                   <U+2701>                                                                                                                                        r
                  <U+2701>       <U+273D>                                                                         r                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                              <U+274A>                                                                     <U+2762>               <U+2759>
                                                                  <U+2748>
                  <U+275D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
              <U+2702>       <U+2735>
                  r       <U+2736>
              P
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2665>
                                                                                            <U+2704>                                                   <U+2739>                                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                <U+275E>                                                           <U+275E>                   t
                                                                                                            <U+2701>                                                                                                   <U+2764>
                                                                           <U+275E>                                <U+275D>                       <U+2701>                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                t                                                                               <U+2763>
                                                                           t<U+2701>                               <U+2708>                       <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2767>
                                                                           t                                                                                                                    <U+275B>
                                                                                                            <U+2701>                   <U+2767><U+2701>                                                              <U+275C>               <U+275E>
                                                                           <U+2660>                            <U+275E>                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>                   <U+2665>                                       <U+2701>                   <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+2701>                           r                       r                                                           r               s
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+275C>
                                                                                                        s
                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                s                   s
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2709>                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>                           <U+273E>
                                                                           <U+2702>t
                                                                                                            <U+2709>                   t
                                                                                                                                    <U+275B>               <U+2786>sr                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                s                                   <U+2733>
                                                                                                        <U+2767><U+2701>                      <U+2764>                                                           <U+2763>                       <U+2665>
                                                                           t                                <U+275C>                   t                       <U+2701>                                                                                           <U+25CF>
                                                                           <U+2764>                                                    t                   s                                           <U+275B>               s                                   
                                                                                                            <U+275B>
                                                                           <U+2763>                                r                   <U+2764>                       <U+2709>                                       <U+2701>                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                            <U+275B>                                                                                                   <U+2763>                                   <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+2767>                                                    <U+2763>                                                               <U+2665>
                                                                                                            <U+2701>                   <U+2767>                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+275C>
                                                                           s
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                        <U+2707>                           <U+2701>                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                r               <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275B>
                                                                                <U+2709>                                               s
                                                                                <U+275B>                       <U+2660>                           <U+2665>                                                       t<U+2701>                      <U+275D>
                                                      s                                                 <U+2702>
                                                      s                                                     r                       <U+2701>                                                           <U+2701>                   <U+2665>
                                                              <U+2735>                                             <U+2762>                       <U+2759>                                                           <U+2749>               <U+2702>
                                                                           <U+2748>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                          <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                          r
                                                      P

                                                              <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2461>
                                      <U+2767><U+275B>
                                      <U+2663>
                                      s
                                          <U+2749>
                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+2708>
                                      t               <U+2735>
                                      s                   <U+2736>
                                          <U+2665>               <U+2736>
                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+2759>
                                      <U+2764>
                                          <U+275D>
                                          <U+2709>
                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                                                             <U+2733>
                                                                                                                             <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                             <U+274B>
                                                                                         <U+2767><U+2701>
                                                                                             <U+2709>
                                                                    <U+2756>                    <U+275E>                   <U+2735>
                                                                             <U+2734>
                                                                                         <U+2702>                           <U+2736>
                                                                                                                     <U+2736>
                                                                             
                                                                                         <U+25BC>
                                  r
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                     r
                                                                                 <U+2461>
                              s
                              s               <U+273A>
                                                                                 <U+2702>               <U+2704>
                                  <U+2701>           <U+2735>                                  <U+2660>               <U+2735>
                                  <U+275D>               <U+2736>                                  <U+2701>               <U+2736>
                              <U+2702>                   <U+2736>                                                  <U+2736>
                                  r                                              <U+25BC>
                              P
                                                                         <U+2701>                   <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+2763>                        <U+275D>                   <U+2736>
                                                                         <U+275B>                               <U+2735>
                                                                         r                   <U+2708>
                                                                    <U+2702>t                       <U+2701>                   <U+2736>
              <U+2660>                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                      <U+2735>
              t<U+2701>      <U+2735>                                                  <U+2759>                   <U+2749>
              s           <U+2736>
              <U+2461>
                          <U+2736>
                  <U+2759>

