                                                    - 103
  ABSTRACT
  This invention relates to medical breathing tubes comprising a tubular body, the body defining a
  lumen extending between open terminal ends of the body and an internal form enclosed within the
  lumen and supportive of the tubular body. The internal form may be of a coated encapsulated
5 internal form, the coating securing the internal form to the tubular body. The internal form may
  also or separately provide for a series of alternative crests and troughs (e.g. corrugations) of the
  tubular body. Patient interfaces (such as masks or nasal cannula) can be connected to such tubing.
  A system for securing patient interfaces in an operational position may also be utilised.
9 Figure to accompany abstract: Figure 2

WO 2012/053910                                  PCT/NZ2011/000218
                             1/18
                                            100
                                       0104
               105                                -110             1
                                                                     107
                 WM4106
                           FIGURE 2
                                   100
                       FIGURE10
               10                                              101
                            FIGURE 2
                        204       200
   207-W
                       FIGURE 3A

                                                      -1
                A NASAL CANNULA, CONDUIT AND SECUREMENT SYSTEM
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present disclosure generally relates to components for medical systems for conveying
   gases to and/or from a patient. In one particular aspect, the disclosure relates to conduits, more
 5 particularly, breathing tubes for use in an inspiratory, expiratory and/or combined respiration limb
   of a breathing system. In another aspect, the disclosure relates to a nasal cannula and conduit that
   form part of a breathing system. In another aspect, the disclosure relates to nasal cannulas that
   form a part of a breathing system. In another aspect, the disclosure relates to a system or systems
   for positioning a patient interface, such as a cannula, in an operational position for and/or on a
 9 user.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            In assisted breathing, respiratory gases are supplied to a patient through a flexible breathing
   tube. The gases expired by the patient may be channeled through a similar breathing tube or
 5 expelled to the patient's surroundings. The gases are typically administered to the patient through a
   user interface, which may also comprise a short length of dedicated breathing tube to couple the
   interface with the supply tube. Each breathing tube is ideally lightweight, resistant to kinking or
   pinching, but also flexible to ensure sufficient performance and a level of comfort for the patient.
            Typically, breathing tubes range in size between about 10mm to about 25mm in internal
 9 diameter bore (covering both neonatal and adult applications). Dedicated user interface tubes may
   be smaller, with an internal diameter of about 2mm for neonatal applications. The small size of
   dedicated user interface breathing tubes makes them less visually intrusive and reduces the weight
   on the patient's face. Breathing tubes are preferably flexible so that they bend easily to improve
   patient comfort, which in turn can increase a patient's compliance with treatment.
25          In medical applications, such as assisted breathing, the gases inhaled by a patient are
   preferably delivered close to body temperature (usually between 33 0 C and 37C) and with a high
   relative humidity (commonly near saturation).       In other medical applications, such as continuous
   positive airway pressure (CPAP) systems or positive pressure ventilations systems that provide
   patient's suffering obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) with positive pressure breathing gases, the
30 breathing gases may be heated and/or humidified to varying levels to improve user comfort or
   supplied without heating or humidification.
            Similar tubes may also be used for supplying insufflation gases for laparoscopic surgery.
   These insufflation tubes are also ideally lightweight, resistant to kinking or pinching and exhibit
   similar flexibility to minimize obstructions and distractions within the operating theatre.         The

                                                      -2
   insufflation gases (typically C0 2, but may be other gases or mixtures of gases) may also be
   humidified.
            Further, gases provided to a patient can be provided via a nasal cannula.        Flexibility of
   associated tubing becomes an important consideration, particularly in infant or neonatal situations.
 5 Improving flexibility of tubes supplying gases to a cannula of a patient assists in improved comfort,
   and consequently improved compliance to such gas delivery treatment.
            Further, it would be advantageous to provide a system for an alternative or improved
   interface location or operational positioning of the interface, such as a nasal cannula.       Such an
   alternative or improved system may further assist with improved compliance of gas delivery
 9 treatment.
            In the specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other external
   documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of providing a context
   for discussing the features of the disclosure. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to such
   external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such documents, or such sources of
 5 information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the common general knowledge in
   the art.
            Further aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from the
   ensuing description which is given by way of example only.
 9 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            It is an object of the present disclosure to provide a component and/or method of
   manufacturing a component that will at least go some way towards improving on the above or
   which will at least provide the public or the medical profession with a useful choice.
            In a first aspect, the disclosure broadly consists in a method of fabricating medical tubing,
25 the method comprising providing an internal form, extruding a tubular body about the internal
   form, the tubular body defining a lumen enclosing the internal form.
            Preferably the method further comprising:
            i) applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, such that the reduced pressure
   draws the tubular body radially inward of the lumen and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the
30 internal form, the outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating
   crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
            ii) applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body
   enclosing the internal form, such that release of the extension (or stretch) returns (or allows) the
   extended (or stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw radially inward of the lumen and

                                                       -3
   of an outer-most perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer-most perimeter defining a
   plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
            iii) a combination of i) and ii).
            Preferably the tubular body is provided by extrusion or by extruding a material from a die
 5 head.
            Preferably the tubular body is extruded about the internal form and reduced pressure is
   applied in a manner allowing an inner face of the tubular body to become at least partly attached or
   bonded to at least a part of the internal form, preferably the reduced pressure differential between
   the pressure in the lumen and the pressure surrounding the tubular body, more preferably the
 9 pressure within (or provided to) the lumen is less than the pressure surrounding the tubular body
   (or the pressure surrounding the tubular body is greater than the pressure within (or provided to)
   the lumen).
            Preferably the tubular body is a single walled body.
            Preferably reduced pressure is applied at or adjacent formation of the lumen.
 5          Preferably reduced pressure is applied at or adjacent a die head.
            Preferably the lumen experiences the reduced pressure upon exit from an extrusion die
   head.
            Preferably the tubular body and the internal form are co-extruded.
            Preferably the tubular body so formed is corrugated.
 9          Preferably the crests of the corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by the outer
   most perimeter of the internal form.
            Preferably the troughs of the corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by inwardly
   drawn portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between the internal form(s).
            Preferably the internal form is a skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the
25 tubular body.
            Preferably the internal form is a continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous
   lengths or a series of discrete lengths.
            Preferably the internal form is a mesh.
            Preferably the internal form one or a combination of a helical spring or a helically wound
30 element, a helically wound skeleton or a helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of
   discrete supports interconnected or inter-connectable by one or more connecting links.
            Preferably the internal form is supportive or supporting of the lumen within the tube so
   formed.
            Preferably the internal form is a helical element or member.
35          Preferably the internal form has a pitch that varies along a length (or sections) of the tube.

                                                      -4
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element (or member) having a pitch
   between adjacent turns of about 0.4mm to about 2mm, or about 0.5 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to
   about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about 1.7, or about 0.8 to about 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I
   to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm to about 1.3mm. More preferably, the pitch between adjacent turns is
 5 about 1mm to about 1.5mm.
            Preferably the internal form has an outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm,
   or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about
   4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to
   about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about
 D 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element, the element having a diameter of
   about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to
   about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about 0.26, or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or
   about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about 0.13 to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to
 5 about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about 0.24, or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22,
   or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm. Preferably having a diameter of about 0.1mm to about 1.5mm.
            Preferably the internal form is of a medical grade material, preferably a medical grade
   stainless steel.
            Preferably the tubular body has a wall thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or
 D about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about 0.07 to about 0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to
   about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about 0.2, or about 0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or
   about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about 0.14mm to about 0.16mm. Preferably a wall thickness of about
   0.1mm to about 0.2mm.
            Preferably the tubular body has an internal diameter (e.g. the lumen) of about 1.5mm to
25 about 4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about 1.7 to about 4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or
   about 1.9 to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or about 2.1 to about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8,
   or about 2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about 3.6, or about 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to
   about 3.4, or about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to about 3.2, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
            Preferably the tubular body has an external (or outer) diameter of about 1.6mm to about
30 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2
   to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about
   2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or
   about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm. Preferably having
   an external (or outer) diameter of about 3mm to about 5mm.

                                                     -5
            Preferably the tubular body is corrugated, the corrugations having a depth of about 0.1mm
   to about 0.5mm.
            Preferably the ratio of pitch of the internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g.
   outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about 0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about
 5 0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or about 0.29.
            Preferably the ratio of the internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form
   element or member) to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to
   about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
            Preferably the ratio of the corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is
 D about 0.05 to about 0.09.
            Preferably, characteristics of the tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or
   structural support required by the tube.
            Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic
   polymers, preferably polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
 5          Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of any one
   or more of thermoplastic elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or
   breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s), or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may
   be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable
   thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block
 D copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or
   about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or
   about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80,
   or about 90.
25          Preferably the tubular body is a breathable tube, or formed of or from, a breathable
   material, such as breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
            Preferably the reduced pressure is applied while the tubular body is in a molten, or a semi
   molten or an as yet uncured state, preferably the reduced pressure is about 0 to about -2 bar
   (absolute), more preferably is about 0 to about -1 bar (absolute), even more preferably down to
30 about -0.9 bar (absolute), yet even more preferably, such reduced pressure is a pressure differential
   between the inside of the lumen and the region surrounding the tubular body.
            Preferably the internal form is electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an
   electrically powered heater.
            Preferably the internal form comprises electrically conductive members or electrically
35 powered heaters or sensors (such as flow or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).

                                                     -6
           Preferably the tube further comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered
   heater (such as a heater wire or heater circuit).
           Preferably the tubular body so formed is flexible as defined by passing the test for increase
   in flow resistance with bending according to ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
 5         Preferably the medical tubing is a breathing tube.
           Preferably the internal form comprises of one or more separate components.
           Preferably the internal form comprises one or more components.
           Preferably the tube comprises one or more internal forms.In a second aspect, the
   invention may be said to broadly consist of a medical tube comprising:
 D         a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
   body, and
           an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body, an outer
   most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a
   length of the tubular body.
 5         Preferably the tubular body is an extruded tube.
           Preferably the tubular body is a continuous tube.
           Preferably the tubular body is a continuously extruded tube.
           Preferably the crests of the corrugated tubular body are defined by the outer-most
   perimeter of the internal form.
 D         Preferably the troughs of the corrugated tubular body are defined by inwardly drawn
   portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between the internal form.
           Preferably the internal form is a continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous
   lengths or a series of discrete lengths.
           Preferably the internal form is one or a combination of a helical spring or a helically wound
25 element, a helically wound skeleton or a helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of
   discrete supports interconnected or inter-connectable by one or more connecting links.
           Preferably the internal form is supporting of the tubular body defining the lumen within.
           Preferably the internal form is a skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the
   tubular body.
30         Preferably the tubular body is substantially unsupported in the troughs from the internal
   form and supported in the crests by the internal form.
           Preferably the wall of the tubular body is suspended between adjacent crests.
           Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic
   polymers, preferably polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.

                                                       -7
            Preferably the tubular body is a breathable tube, or is formed of or from a breathable
   material, such as breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound rib, or ribbing element.
            Preferably the internal form is a helical element or member.
 5          Preferably the internal form has a pitch that varies along a length (or sections) of the
   tube.Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element having a pitch between adjacent
   turns of about 0.4mm to about 2mm, or about 0.5 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to about 1.8, or about
   0.7 to about 1.7, or about 0.8 to about 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I to about 1.4, or
   about 1.1mm to about 1.3mm. More preferably, the pitch between adjacent turns is about 1mm to
 D about 1.5mm.
            Preferably the internal form has an outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm,
   or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about
   4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to
   about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about
 5 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element, the element having a diameter of
   about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to
   about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about 0.26, or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or
   about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about 0.13 to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to
 D about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about 0.24, or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22,
   or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm. Preferably having a diameter of about 0.1mm to about 1.5mm.
            Preferably the internal form is of a medical grade material, preferably a medical grade
   stainless steel.
            Preferably the tubular body has a wall thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or
25 about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about 0.07 to about 0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to
   about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about 0.2, or about 0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or
   about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about 0.14mm to about 0.16mm. Preferably a wall thickness of about
   0.1mm to about 0.2mm.
            Preferably the tubular body has an internal diameter of about 1.5mm to about 4.5mm, or
30 about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about 1.7 to about 4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or about 1.9 to about
   4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or about 2.1 to about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8, or about 2.3 to
   about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about 3.6, or about 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to about 3.4, or about
   2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to about 3.2, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
            Preferably the tubular body has an external (or outer) diameter of about 1.6mm to about
35 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2

                                                      -8
   to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about
   2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or
   about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm. Preferably having
   an external (or outer) diameter of about 3mm to about 5mm.
 5         Preferably the tubular body is corrugated, the corrugations having a depth of about 0.1mm
   to about 0.5mm.
           Preferably the ratio of pitch of the internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g.
   outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about 0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about
   0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or about 0.29.
 D         Preferably the ratio of the internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form
   element or member) to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to
   about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
           Preferably the ratio of the corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is
   about 0.05 to about 0.09.
 5         Preferably, characteristics of the tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or
   structural support required by the tube.
           Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of
   thermoplastic elastomers, polypropylene based elastomers, liquid silicon rubbers (LSR), or
   breathable thermoplastic polyurethanes, or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may
 D be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable
   thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block
   copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or
   about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or
25 about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80,
   or about 90.
           Preferably the internal form is a plurality of rings spaced longitudinally along the lumen.
           Preferably the rings are toroidal or annular in shape.
           Preferably the internal form is one or more discrete elements linked to one another.
30         Preferably the internal form comprises a plurality of reinforcing ribs spaced regularly along
   the lumen.
           Preferably each reinforcing rib comprises one turn of a helical reinforcing wire.
           Preferably one turn of the helical reinforcing wire comprises one complete revolution
   about the lumen of the tube.

                                                      -9
            Preferably one turn of the helical reinforcing wire comprises the wire disposed between
   adjacent crests of the internal form.
            Preferably the tubular body is flexible as defined by passing the test for increase in flow
   resistance with bending according to ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
 5          Preferably a terminal end of the tube is integrated with a nasal prong, the nasal prong being
   adapted for insertion into a user's nare as a nasal interface for delivering breathing gases to a user.
            Preferably the internal form is a mesh.
            Preferably the internal form is a conductive wire suitable for heating or sensing a property
   of gases within the tube.
 D          Preferably the internal form is electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an
   electrically powered heater.
            Preferably the internal form comprises electrically conductive members or electrically
   powered heaters or sensors (such as flow or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).
            Preferably the tube further comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered
 5 heater (such as a heater wire or heater circuit).
            Preferably the tube is a breathing tube.
            Preferably the internal form comprises of one or more separate components.
            Preferably the internal form comprises one or more components.
            Preferably the tube comprises one or more internal forms.
 D          In a third aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a nasal cannula
   arrangement comprising:
            at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas(es) outlet adapted to be inserted into a
   user's nare and a gas(es) inlet fluidly connected to the gas(es) outlet, and
            a corrugated gas(es) delivery tube, the tube comprising a tubular body defining a lumen and
25 an internal form enclosed within the lumen, the internal form supportive of the tubular body, an
   outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating crests and troughs
   along a length of the tubular body,
            wherein the gas(es) inlet of the nasal prong is formed integrally with a terminal end of the
   tube so that the tube lumen is fluidly connected to the gas(es) outlet of the nasal prong.
30          Preferably the nasal prong is shaped to substantially conform anatomically to the interior of
   a user's nose or nare.
            Preferably the nasal prong is curved, or otherwise shaped or configured, to avoid a user's
   septum.
            Preferably the nasal cannula has a substantially planar or flat or contoured backing
35 configured to rest on a user's face, preferably as a stabilizer of the prong in the nare of a user.

                                                    - 10
           Preferably one or more ribs extend between a front face of the backing and the cannula,
   the ribs providing a contact surface for tape or other suitable retainer employed to fasten or attach
   the cannula to a user's face, preferably the tape comprises adhesive portions or is an adhesive tape
   or a contact adhesive tape.
 5         Preferably two nasal prongs are formed integrally with a single corrugated delivery tube.
           Preferably the cannula comprises a pair of nasal prongs, each prong formed integrally with,
   or may be attached (or attachable) or connected (or connectable) to a terminal end of a pair of
   gas(es) delivery tube.
           Preferably the cannula arrangement is formed of a polymer, such as a thermoplastic
 9 polymer, preferably a polymer or polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
           Preferably the cannula arrangement is formed of one or a combination of any one or more
   of thermoplastic elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or
   breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s), or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may
   be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable
 5 thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block
   copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or
   about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or
   about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80,
 9 or about 90.
           In a fourth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a user interface
   comprising a pair of nasal cannula as defined by the third aspect.
           Preferably the nasal prongs of each nasal cannula are disposed adjacent each other and the
   respective delivery tubes extend in opposite directions away from the nasal prongs.
25         Preferably further comprising a harness, the harness extending between and coupling the
   nasal cannula.
           Preferably the tube is a breathing tube.
           Preferably the tube is as defined by the first or second aspect, for example where the tube is
   fabricated by a method as defined by the first aspect or the tube as defined by the second aspect.
30         In a fifth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a method of fabricating a
   nasal cannula, the method comprising:
           providing an internal form,
           extruding a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular body defining a lumen
   enclosing the internal form, and attaching a nasal cannula thereto.
35         Preferably the method further comprising:

                                                    - 11
            i) applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, such that the reduced pressure
   draws the tubular body radially inward of the lumen and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the
   internal form, the outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating
   crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
 5          ii) applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body
   enclosing the internal form, such that release of the extension (or stretch) returns (or allows) the
   extended (or stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw radially inward of the lumen and
   of an outer-most perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer-most perimeter defining a
   plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
 9          iii) a combination of i) and ii).
            Preferably the method comprises over-moulding a nasal prong over a terminal end of the
   tubular body.
            Preferably the tubular body so formed is the tube as defined by the method of the first
   aspect or as defined by the tube of the second aspect.
 5          Preferably a terminal end of the tube so formed by the tubular body is located in a mould
   or a form for moulding or forming of a nasal cannula, preferably the mould or form is closed and
   the nasal cannula is over-moulded or formed over the or a terminal end of the tube.
            Preferably the nasal cannula is a polymer, such as thermoplastic polymers, preferably
   polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
 9          Preferably the nasal cannula formed from is one or a combination of any one or more of
   thermoplastic elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable
   thermoplastic polyurethane(s), or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may be those
   such as, but not limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, liquid silicon rubber(s), or
   breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene
25 block copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or
   about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or
   about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80,
   or about 90.
30          Preferably the tubular body is a breathable tube, or formed of or from a breathable
   material, such as breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
            Preferably a nasal cannula mould is provided, the mould receivable of a terminal end of the
   tube so formed by fabrication of the tubular body, such that operation of the mould facilities
   moulding of the nasal cannula, a part of which is over-moulded of the tube terminal end.

                                                     -12
           Preferably the nasal cannula arrangement produced by the nasal cannula is fluid
   communication with a terminal end of the tube so formed by fabrication of the tubular body.
           In a sixth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a securement system for a
   user interface and/or user interface tubing comprising:
 5         a dermal patch defining a securement footprint, the dermal patch having a user side and an
   interface side, the user side of the dermal patch being configured to attach or adhere to a user's
   skin, and
           a securing patch, at least a part of the securing patch being configured to extend over a user
   interface and/or associated user interface tubing and affixes to the user interface side of the dermal
 9 patch to secure the user interface to the user,
           the securing patch and the dermal patch being configured so that the securing patch can be
   contained within or bounded by the securement footprint of the dermal patch when the
   securement system is applied to a patient with a suitable or compatible user interface.
           Preferably wherein the dermal patch has the same or a greater surface area than the
 5 securing patch.
           Preferably the securement patch is shaped or otherwise configured to accommodate
   geometric or other features of the user interface and/or associated user interface tubing.
           Preferably the securement patch has at least one wing.
           Preferably the securement patch has a pair of wings arranged at one end of the patch, the
 9 wings are configured to secure to the dermal patch on either side of a user interface and/or
   associated user interface tubing.
           Preferably the securement patch has a tube end wing, the tube end wing being configured
   to extend, or for extending, under the user interface tubing and affix to the dermal patch.
           Preferably the user side of the dermal patch has a dermatologically sensitive adhesive (such
25 as a hydrocolloid for example) that attaches or adheres the dermal patch to a user's skin.
           Preferably the dermal patch has a surface of sufficient area such that, the surface distributes
   pressure the attachment or adhering forces across the user's skin.
           Preferably the dermal patch is configured to attach or adhere to a user's face.
           Preferably the dermal patch is configure to attach or adhere to a user's face adjacent the
30 user's upper lip and/or cheek.
           Preferably the securement system is configured to receive and/or secure a nasal cannula
   and/or associated tubing, the tubing extending from one or both sides of a user's face.
           Preferably the securement system is configured for use with an infant or neonatal infant.
           Preferably the securement system is configured for use with a nasal cannula as defined by
35 the third aspect.

                                                     - 13
           Preferably the securement system is configured for use with a tube as defined by either the
   first and/or second aspect.
           In a seventh aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a securement system
   for a user interface and/or user interface tubing comprising a two-part releasable attachment or
 5 connection arrangement, the arrangement comprising a dermal patch and a user interface patch:
           the dermal patch having a patient side and an interface side, the patient side of the dermal
   patch being attachable to the skin of a user, (such as for example by an adhesive, generally being of
   a dermatologically sensitive adhesive such as a hydrocolloid), the interface side of the dermal patch
   being provided with the first part of a two-part releasable attachment or connection system, and
 9         the user interface patch having a interface side and patient side, the patient side of the user
   interface patch being provided with the complimentary second part of the two-part releasable
   attachment or connection system,
           the interface side of the user interface patch being attachable or connected to the user
   interface and/or associated user interface tubing, for example by adhesive or may be formed as a
 5 part of the user interface or may be provided as a back surface of the user interface upon which is
   provided the second part of the two-part system.
           Preferably the interface side of the dermal patch has one of a hook or a loop, and the
   second part of the second patch has the other of the hook or loop, such that the first and second
   parts (and patches) are releasably attachable or connectable to each other.
 9         Preferably the first patch is locatable and/or attachable to the skin of a user's face.
           Preferably the user interface patch is locatable, or attached or attachable, or is connected to,
   or with, a user interface.
           Preferably the user interface patch is formed integrally with, or forms a part of, a user
   interface.
25         Preferably the first part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system on the
   dermal patch occupies less than about 90%, or about 85%, or about 75%, or about 60% or about
   50% or about 40% or about 30% or about 20% or about 10% of the interface side of the dermal
   patch.
           Preferably the first part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system is
30 adhered or adherable to the user interface side of the dermal patch with a suitable adhesive.
           Preferably the user side of the dermal patch has a dermatologically sensitive adhesive (such
   as a hydrocolloid for example) that attaches or adheres the dermal patch to a user's skin.
           Preferably the dermal patch has a surface of sufficient area such that, the surface distributes
   pressure the attachment or adhering forces across the user's skin.
35         Preferably the dermal patch is configured to attach or adhere to a user's face.

                                                        - 14
            Preferably the dermal patch is configured to attach or adhere to a user's face adjacent the
   user's upper lip and/or cheek.
            Preferably the securement system is configured to receive and/or secure a nasal cannula
   and associated tubing, the tubing extending from one or both sides of a user's face.
 5          Preferably the securement system is configured for use with an infant or neonatal infant.
            Preferably the securement system is configured for use with a nasal cannula as defined by
   anyone or more of claims third.
            Preferably the securement system is configured for use with a tube as defined by the first
   and/or the second aspect.
 D          Preferably the securement patch defined above is applied or appliable over the user
   interface and affixed or affixable to the dermal patch to provide additional securement.
            Preferably the first part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system
   includes a substrate secured to, or for securing to, the dermal patch.
            Preferably the substrate portion includes at least one slit or at least one slot with areas of
 5 the substrate portion separated by the slit or slot.
            Preferably the substrate portion includes a plurality of slits or slots or both which together
   divide the substrate portion into a serpentine body.
            Preferably the slits and/or slots are arranged in the substrate such that a first set of at least
   one set of slits or slots extends into the substrate from one edge of the substrate and a second set
 J of slits or slots extends into the substrate from the other edge of the substrate, the slits or slots of a
   set being interleaved with the slits or slots of the other set such that a path along the substrate
   portion from one end to another end without crossing the slits or slots must follow a zigzag or
   serpentine path much longer than a direct line between the ends.
            Preferably a slit or slot of the plurality of slits or slots is curved.
25          Preferably a plurality of the slits or slots is curved and the curved slits or slots are arranged
   substantially parallel.
            Preferably the slits or slots are arranged in a herring bone pattern extending in from the
   edges of the substrate portion.
            Preferably the substrate is divided into separated portions by a serpentine slit or slot.
30          Preferably the substrate portion is divided into portions by a spiral slit or slot.
            Preferably the substrate portion is divided into sub-portions by slits or slots arranged on
   substantially concentric circles.
            Preferably the concentric circles are centered at approximately the centre of the substrate
   portion.

                                                     - 15
           Preferably the slit or slots divide the substrate portion into a plurality of islands, each joined
   to an adjacent island or islands by a narrow bridge.
           Preferably the substrate portion is divided into portions by an S shaped slit.
           Preferably the substrate portion is divided into portions by a T shaped slit.
 5         Preferably the substrate portion covers at least 70% of the area of the dermal patch.
           Preferably for a boundary defining the shortest path around the perimeter of the substrate,
   the substrate portion covers at least 80% of the area within the boundary.
           In an eighth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a method of fabricating
   medical tubing, the method comprising:
 9         providing an internal form encapsulated in a coating, and
           providing a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular body defining a lumen
   enclosing the internal form,
           the tubular body being provided about the internal form such that the coating and an
   internal surface of the tubular body bond together, wherein the internal form remains
 5 encapsulated.
           Preferably the step of providing an internal form comprises:
           providing an elongate form encapsulated within a coating suitable for application in
   medical tubing, and
           fabricating a supportive internal form for a medical tube from the coated elongate form.
 9         Preferably the uncoated elongate form is dipped in a bath of coating material to apply the
   encapsulating coating.
           Preferably the bath contains a molten polymer grade at a temperature above about 150'C.
           Preferably the internal form is fabricated by spirally winding the elongate form into a helical
   form.
25         Preferably the method further comprising:
           providing an uncoated elongate form,
           encapsulating the elongate form in a coating suitable for application in medical tubing.
           Preferably the method further comprising:
           i) applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, such that the reduced pressure
30 draws the tubular body radially inward, or
           ii) applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body
   enclosing the internal form, such that release of the extension (or stretch) returns (or allows) the
   extended (or stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw radially inward, or
           iii) or a combination of i) and ii).

                                                     - 16
            Preferably the tubular body is drawn radially inward of the lumen and of an outer-most
   perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer-most perimeter defining a plurality of alternating
   crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body to form a corrugated tube.
            Preferably the tubular body is provided by extrusion or by extruding a material from a die
 5 head.
            Preferably the tubular body is extruded about the internal form and a reduced pressure is
   applied in a manner allowing an inner face of the tubular body to become at least partly attached or
   bonded to at least a part of the coating, preferably the reduced pressure creates a differential
   between the pressure in the lumen and the pressure surrounding the tubular body, more preferably
 9 the pressure within (or provided to) the lumen is less than the pressure surrounding the tubular
   body (or the pressure surrounding the tubular body is greater than the pressure within (or provided
   to) the lumen).
            Preferably the tubular body is provided about the internal form at a temperature that causes
   the at least a portion of the coating and the tubular body to bond.
 5          Preferably the tubular body is provided about the internal form at a temperature allowing
   welding of the coating and the internal form.
            Preferably the tubular body at least partially fuses with the coating.
            Preferably the tubular body is a single walled body.
            Preferably a reduced pressure is applied at or adjacent formation of the lumen.
 9          Preferably the reduced pressure is applied at or adjacent a die head.
            Preferably the lumen experiences the reduced pressure upon exit from an extrusion die
   head.
            Preferably the tubular body is extruded simultaneously with fabrication of the internal form
   from the elongate form.
25          Preferably the tubular body so formed is corrugated (may be axial or helical corrugations).
            Preferably the crests of the corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by the outer
   most perimeter of the internal form.
            Preferably the troughs of the corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by inwardly
   drawn portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between the internal form(s).
30          Preferably the internal form is a skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the
   tubular body.
            Preferably the internal form is a continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous
   lengths or a series of discrete lengths.

                                                      - 17
            Preferably the internal form one or a combination of a helical spring or a helically wound
   element, a helically wound skeleton or a helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of
   discrete supports interconnected or inter-connectable by one or more connecting links.
            Preferably the internal form is supportive or supporting of the lumen within the tube so
 5 formed.
            Preferably the internal form is a helical element or member.
            Preferably the internal form has a pitch that varies along a length (or sections) of the tube.
            Preferably the internal form comprises a helically wound element (or member) having a
   pitch between adjacent turns of about 0.4mm to about 2mm, or about 0.5 to about 1.9, or about
 D 0.6 to about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about 1.7, or about 0.8 to about 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or
   about I to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm to about 1.3mm. More preferably, the pitch between
   adjacent turns is about 1mm to about 1.5mm.
            Preferably the internal form has an outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm,
   or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about
 5 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to
   about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about
   2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element, the element having a diameter of
   about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to
 D about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about 0.26, or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or
   about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about 0.13 to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to
   about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about 0.24, or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22,
   or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm.
            Preferably the internal form is of a medical grade material, preferably a medical grade
25 stainless steel coated with a suitable material, preferably a polymer grade or a stainless steel.
            Preferably the tubular body has a wall thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or
   about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about 0.07 to about 0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to
   about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about 0.2, or about 0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or
   about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about 0.14mm to about 0.16mm. Preferably a wall thickness of about
30 0.1mm to about 0.2mm.
            Preferably the tubular body has an internal (e.g. lumen) diameter of about 1.5mm to about
   4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about 1.7 to about 4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or about 1.9
   to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or about 2.1 to about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8, or about
   2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about 3.6, or about 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to about 3.4, or
35 about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to about 3.2, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.

                                                   - 18
           Preferably the tubular body has an external (or outer) diameter of about 1.6mm to about
   4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2
   to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about
   2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or
 5 about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm. Preferably having
   an external (or outer) diameter of about 3mm to about 5mm.
           Preferably the tubular body is corrugated, the corrugations having a depth of about 0.1mm
   to about 0.5mm.
           Preferably the ratio of pitch of the internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g.
 D outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about 0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about
   0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or about 0.29.
           Preferably the ratio of the internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form
   element or member) to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to
   about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
 5         Preferably the ratio of the corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is
   about 0.05 to about 0.09.
           Preferably, characteristics of the tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or
   structural support required by the tube.
           Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic
 D polymers, preferably polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
           Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of any one
   or more of thermoplastic elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or
   breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s), more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not
   limited to, polyolefin's, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for
25 example thermoplastic      elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester
   elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers, even
   more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about
   30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about
   30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
30         Preferably the reduced pressure is applied while the tubular body is in a molten, or a semi
   molten or an as yet uncured state, preferably the reduced pressure is about 0 to about -2 bar
   (absolute), more preferably is about 0 to about -1 bar (absolute), even more preferably down to
   about -0.9 bar (absolute), yet even more preferably, such reduced pressure is a pressure differential
   between the inside of the lumen and the region surrounding the tubular body.

                                                     - 19
            Preferably the internal form is electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an
   electrically powered heater.
            Preferably the internal form comprises electrically conductive members or electrically
   powered heaters or sensors (such as flow or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).
 5          Preferably the tube further comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered
   heater (such as a heater wire or heater circuit).
            Preferably the tubular body so formed is flexible as defined by passing the test for increase
   in flow resistance with bending according to ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
            Preferably the medical tubing is a breathing tube.
 9          Preferably the internal form comprises of one or more separate components.
            Preferably the internal form comprises one or more components.
            Preferably the tube comprises one or more internal forms.
            In a ninth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a method of fabricating
   medical tubing, the method comprising:
 5          i) providing an internal form,
            ii) providing a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular body defining a lumen
   enclosing the internal form, and applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, or applying
   an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body enclosing the internal
   form, or
 9          iii) or a combination of i) and ii).
            Preferably applying a greater reduced pressure or a greater extension (or stretch) or a
   combination of both draws the tubular body radially inward of the lumen along a length of the
   tubular body and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the internal form when the greater
   reduced pressure is applied or the extension (or stretch) is released or both, the outer-most
25 perimeter of the internal form then defining a plurality of alternating crests and troughs
            Preferably the internal form is encapsulated in a coating, the tubular body being provided
   about the internal form such that the coating and an internal surface of the tubular body bond
   together, wherein the internal form remains encapsulated.
            In a tenth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a medical tube
30 comprising:
            a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
   body, an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body, and a
   coating encapsulating the internal form, the coating securing the internal form to the tubular body.
            Preferably the coating and the tubular body are welded along the tube.

                                                      - 20
            Preferably the coating and the tubular body are welded at discrete locations along the tube.
            Preferably the coating and the tubular body are welded substantially continuously along the
   length of the tube.
            Preferably wherein an outer-most perimeter of the internal form defines a plurality of
 5 alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
            Preferably the crests of the corrugated tubular body are defined by the outer-most
   perimeter of the internal form.
            Preferably the troughs of the corrugated tubular body are defined by inwardly drawn
   portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between the internal form.
 9          Preferably the internal form is a continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous
   lengths or a series of discrete lengths.
            Preferably the internal form is one or a combination of a helical spring or a helically wound
   element, a helically wound skeleton or a helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of
   discrete supports interconnected or inter-connectable by one or more connecting links.
 5          Preferably wherein the internal form is supporting of the tubular body defining the lumen
   within.
            Preferably the internal form is a helical element or member.
            Preferably the internal form has a pitch that varies along a length (or sections) of the tube.
            Preferably the internal form is a skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the
 9 tubular body.
            Preferably the tubular body is substantially unsupported in the troughs from the internal
   form and supported in the crests by the internal form.
            Preferably the wall of the tubular body is suspended between adjacent crests.
            Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic
25 polymers, preferably polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound rib, or ribbing element.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound strip, the coating encapsulating the strip.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound metallic wire, the coating encapsulating the
   wire.
30          Preferably wherein the coating provides a surface that readily bonds with the tubular body.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element (or member) having a pitch
   between adjacent turns of about 0.4mm to about 2mm, or about 05 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to
   about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about 1.7, or about 0.8 to about 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I
   to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm to about 1.3mm. More preferably, the pitch between adjacent turns is
35 about 1mm to about 1.5mm.

                                                      - 21
            Preferably the internal form has an outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm,
   or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about
   4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to
   about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about
 5 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
            Preferably the internal form is a helically wound element, the element having a diameter of
   about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to
   about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about 0.26, or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or
   about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about 0.13 to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to
 D about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about 0.24, or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22,
   or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm. Preferably having a diameter of about 0.1mm to about 1.5mm.
            Preferably the internal form is of a medical grade material, preferably a medical grade
   stainless steel.
            Preferably the tubular body has a (wall) thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or
 5 about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about 0.07 to about 0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to
   about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about 0.2, or about 0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or
   about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about 0.14mm to about 0.16mm. Preferably a wall thickness of about
   0.1mm to about 0.2mm.
            Preferably the tubular body has an internal diameter (e.g. the lumen) of about 1.5mm to
 D about 4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about 1.7 to about 4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or
   about 1.9 to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or about 2.1 to about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8,
   or about 2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about 3.6, or about 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to
   about 3.4, or about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to about 3.2, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
   Preferably having an external (or outer) diameter of about 3mm to about 5mm.
25          Preferably the tubular body is corrugated, the corrugations having a depth of about 0.1mm
   to about 0.5mm.
            Preferably the ratio of pitch of the internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g.
   outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about 0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about
   0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or about 0.29.
30          Preferably the ratio of the internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form
   element or member) to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to
   about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
            Preferably the ratio of the corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is
   about 0.05 to about 0.09.

                                                      -22
            Preferably, characteristics of the tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or
   structural support required by the tube.
            Preferably the tubular body has an external (or outer) diameter of about 1.6mm to about
   4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2
 5 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about
   2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or
   about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
            Preferably the tubular body is (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of
   thermoplastic elastomers, polypropylene based elastomers, liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable
 D thermoplastic polyurethanes, more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not limited to,
   polyolefin's, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for example
   thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or
   thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane              elastomers, even more
   preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to
 5 about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or
   about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
            Preferably the internal form is a plurality of rings spaced longitudinally along the lumen.
            Preferably the rings are toroidal or annular in shape.
            Preferably the internal form is one or more discrete elements linked to one another.
 D          Preferably the internal form comprises a plurality of reinforcing ribs spaced regularly along
   the lumen.
            Preferably each reinforcing rib comprises one turn of a helical reinforcing wire.
            Preferably one turn of the helical reinforcing wire comprises one complete revolution
   about the lumen of the tube.
25          Preferably one turn of the helical reinforcing wire comprises the wire disposed between
   adjacent crests of the internal form.
            Preferably the tubular body is flexible as defined by passing the test for increase in flow
   resistance with bending according to ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
            Preferably a terminal end of the tube is integrated with a nasal prong, the nasal prong being
30 adapted for insertion into a user's nare as a nasal interface for delivering breathing gases to a user.
            Preferably the internal form is a mesh.
            Preferably the internal form is a conductive wire suitable for heating or sensing a property
   of gases within the tube.
            Preferably the internal form is electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an
35 electrically powered heater.

                                                     -23
           Preferably the internal form comprises electrically conductive members or electrically
   powered heaters or sensors (such as flow or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).
           Preferably the tube further comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered
   heater (such as a heater wire or heater circuit).
 5         Preferably the tube is a breathing tube.
           Preferably the internal form comprises of one or more separate components.
           Preferably the internal form comprises one or more components.
           Preferably the tube comprises one or more internal forms.
           In an eleventh aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a medical tube
 9 comprising:
           a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
   body, and an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body.
           Preferably an outer-most perimeter of the internal form defines a plurality of alternating
   crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
 5         Preferably the internal form is encapsulated in a coating, the coating securing the internal
   form to the tubular body.
           In a twelfth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a nasal cannula
   arrangement comprising:
           at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas(es) outlet adapted to be inserted into a
 9 user's nare and a gas(es) inlet fluidly connected to the gas(es) outlet, the prong being shaped to
   follow the anatomical curvature of a user's nare.
           Preferably the nasal prong is shaped to avoid contact with the septum of a user at the base
   of a user's nose.
           Preferably the nasal prong is shaped to avoid contact with the internal structure of a user's
25 nose.
           Preferably the nasal prong is shaped to substantially align the flow of breathing gas(es)
   through the gas(es) outlet with a user's upper airways.
           Preferably the nasal prong is shaped to extend generally upwardly and rearwardly into a
   user's nares, the nasal prong having a curvature that includes at least two inflection points.
30         Preferably the nasal prong defines a lumen that extends between the gas(es) inlet and the
   gas(es) outlet, the shape of the lumen changing from generally circular at the gas(es) inlet to
   generally elliptical at the gas(es) outlet.
           Preferably the prong is shaped to maximize the cross-sectional area of the lumen.
           Preferably the interface further includes a support that extends along a user's upper lip.

                                                      - 24
             Preferably the interface comprises two nasal prongs spaced symmetrically about a user's
   sagittal plane, the prongs extending inwardly below the user's nose from a base on a common
   support disposed along a user's upper lip.
             Preferably the nasal prongs extend from the support toward the user's septum and curve
 5 around the corners of a user's nostrils upwardly and rearwardly into the user's nares, each prong
   extending along a generally inclined posterior trajectory and passing through two mediolateral
   points of inflection that orientate the gas(es) outlet with respect to the user's upper airway passages.
             Preferably the prongs may have a shaped trajectory fitting the anatomical shape of the
   user's nostril. More preferably, i) in a first portion (or phase) of such a prong, the trajectory moves
 9 horizontally towards the midline of the face, ii) in a second portion (or phase) of the prong, the
   trajectory curves upwards directly into the nostril towards the crown of the head, iii) in a third
   potion (or phase) of the prong, the trajectory rolls backwards into the head following the
   anatomical curvature of the nostril, and iv) in a fourth portion (or phase), the trajectory tilts
   horizontally towards the centre of the cannula to align the flow outlet with the user's upper airway.
 5           Preferably the prongs have a cross-section that varies along the central trajectory. For
   example, the cross-sections may be generally circular at the base (i.e. in the region of the first
   portion) of the trajectory and become generally elliptical towards the end of the trajectory or prong
   (e.g. in the region of the fourth portion).
             Preferably the cross-sectional diameter generally decreases along the trajectory from the
 9 first portion (or phase) to the end of the fourth portion (or phase).
             Preferably the nasal cannula further comprises a contoured backing or facial pad
   configured to rest on a user's face.
             Preferably the backing or facial pad is pre-formed to be of a contour that is substantially
   curved to fit a user's face or upper lip region.
25           Preferably each prong is receivable of independent flow from a gas source.
             In a thirteenth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a nasal cannula
   arrangement comprising:
             at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas(es) outlet adapted to be inserted into a
   users nare and a gas(es) inlet fluidly connected to the gas(es) outlet, and
30           a gas(es) delivery tube, the tube comprising a tubular body defining a lumen and an internal
   form enclosed within the lumen, the internal form supportive of the tubular body,
             wherein the gas(es) inlet of the nasal prong is formed integrally with a terminal end of the
   tube so that the tube lumen is fluidly connected to the gas(es) outlet of the nasal prong.
             Preferably an outer-most perimeter of the internal form defines a plurality of alternating
35 crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body,

                                                      - 25
            Preferably the prong is shaped to follow the anatomical curvature of a user's nare.
            Preferably the nasal prong is curved, or otherwise shaped or configured, to avoid a user's
   septum.
            Preferably the nasal cannula has a contoured backing or facial pad configured to rest on a
 5 user's face, preferably as a stabilizer of the prong in the nare of a user.
            Preferably one or more ribs extend between a front face of the backing or facial pas and
   the cannula, the ribs providing a contact surface for tape or other suitable retainer employed to
   fasten or attach the cannula to a user's face, preferably the tape comprises adhesive portions or is
   an adhesive tape or a contact adhesive tape.
 9          Preferably wherein two nasal prongs are formed integrally with a single corrugated delivery
   tube.
            Preferably the cannula arrangement is formed of a liquid silicon rubber or a polymer, such
   as a thermoplastic polymer, preferably a polymer or polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
            Preferably the cannula arrangement is formed of one or a combination of any one or more
 5 of thermoplastic elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or
   breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s), more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not
   limited to, polyolefin's, thermoplastic elastomers, breathable polyester elastomers, or breathable
   thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block
   copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
 9 polyurethane elastomers, breathable polyester elastomer, even more preferably polymers of a Shore
   A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about
   60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or
   about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
            Preferably, such a cannula may be used in combination with the tube as defined by any one
25 of the aspects above.
            In a fourteenth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a user interface
   comprising a pair of nasal cannula as defined by the thirteenth aspect.
             Preferably, in such a user interface, the nasal prongs are disposed adjacent each other and
   the respective delivery tubes extend in opposite directions away from the nasal prongs.
30          Preferably, such a user interface further comprising a harness, the harness extending
   between and coupling the nasal cannula.
            Preferably the tube is a breathing tube.
            Preferably, in such a user interface, the tube is as defined by anyone of the above aspects.
            Preferably, in such a user interface, the prong is glued or otherwise adhered to the tube.

                                                      -26
           In a fifteenth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a nasal cannula
   arrangement comprising:
           at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's
   nare and a gas inlet fluidly connected to the gas outlet, the at least one nasal prong comprising a
 5 backing, the backing configured to rest on a user's face, wherein a lip extends about at least a part
   of the perimeter of a rear surface of the backing, the rear surface configured for receiving or
   retaining a user interface patch, such that in use, the user interface patch may be releasably
   attachable or connectable to, or with, a dermal patch affixed to a user's face.
           Preferably the lip is a barrier.
 9         Preferably the lip is deformable.
           Preferably the lip extends at least about the perimeter of a region substantially adjacent to a
   prong associated with the backing.
           Preferably the lip is a series of one or more separate lips.
           Preferably the one or more separate lips are adjacent, or adjoining or overlapping lip
 5 portions.
           Preferably the lip is an endless lip extending about the perimeter of the rear surface of the
   backing.
           Preferably, in use, the lip substantially forms a fluid seal, or barrier to fluid, between the
   rear surface of the backing and a cannula facing surface of the user interface patch.
 9         Preferably the backing is substantially planar or flat or contoured (such as a pre-formed
   curve) backing configured to rest on a user's face.
           Preferably the backing assists as a stabilizer of the prong(s) in the nare(s) of a user.
           Preferably the at least one backing extends laterally outward from the at least one nasal
   prong, away from the septum of a user.
25         Preferably the cannula is further defined by any one of the aspects above.
           Preferably the cannula is operational with the securement system as in the aspects above.
           Preferably the user interface patch receivable or retainable on the rear surface of the
   backing (or backing component) as defined by any one of the aspects above.
           Preferably the at least the lip(s) is hydrophobic.
30         Preferably the at least the lip(s) comprises at least one outer perimeter lip portion and at
   least one inner perimeter lip portion, each of said lips provided for contacting with a user's face.
           Preferably the gas inlet of the cannula is fluidly connected to or with the tube as defined in
   any one of the aspects above.
           In a sixteenth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a part of a releasable
35 fastener that includes a substrate portion supporting a distributed mechanical fastener across its

                                                        - 27
   surface, the substrate portion being flexible but substantially non-stretchable, the substrate portion
   being divided into multiple areas by at least one slit or at least one slot, such that the substrate may
   substantially conform to an underlying compound curved surface by independent bending of
   different divided portions of the substrate.
 5          Preferably the substrate portion includes a plurality of slits or slots or both which together
   divide the substrate portion into a serpentine body.
            Preferably the slits and/or slots are arranged in the substrate such that a first set of at least
   one set of slits or slots extends into the substrate from one edge of the substrate and a second set
   of slits or slots extends into the substrate from the other edge of the substrate, the slits or slots of a
 9 set being interleaved with the slits or slots of the other set such that a path along the substrate
   portion from one end to another end without crossing the slits or slots must follow a zigzag or
   serpentine path much longer than a direct line between the ends.
            Preferably a slit or slot of the plurality of slits or slots is curved.
            Preferably a plurality of the slits or slots is curved and the curved slits or slots are arranged
 5 substantially parallel.
            Preferably the slits or slots are arranged in a herring bone pattern extending in from the
   edges of the substrate portion.
            Preferably the substrate is divided into separated portions by a serpentine slit or slot.
            Preferably the substrate portion is divided into portions by a spiral slit or slot.
 9          Preferably the substrate portion is divided into sub-portions by slits or slots arranged on
   substantially concentric circles.
            Preferably the concentric circles are centered at approximately the centre of the substrate
   portion.
            Preferably the slit or slots divide the substrate portion into a plurality of islands, each joined
25 to an adjacent island or islands by a narrow bridge.
            Preferably the substrate portion is divided into portions by an S shaped slit.
            Preferably the substrate portion is divided into portions by a T shaped slit.
            Preferably the substrate portion covers at least 70% of the area of the dermal patch.
            Preferably a boundary defining the shortest path around the perimeter of the substrate, the
30 substrate portion covers at least 80% of the area within the boundary.
            In a sixteenth aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist of a user interface
   assembly comprising:
            a securement system for the user interface and/or a component associated with the user
   interface (e.g. such as a tube or tubing), and

                                                       - 28
           a tube connected to the user interface providing at least a part of a breathing circuit for a
   user of the interface,
   wherein the securement system comprises a two-part releasable attachment (or connection)
   arrangement, the arrangement comprising:
 5         a dermal patch and a user interface patch,
                    the dermal patch having a patient side and an interface side,
                             the patient side of the dermal patch being attachable to the skin of a user,
                             (e.g. by an adhesive, generally being of a dermatologically sensitive adhesive
                             such as a hydrocolloid),
 9                           the interface side of the dermal patch being provided with the first part of a
                             two-part releasable attachment or connection system, and
           the user interface patch having a interface side and patient side,
                    the patient side of the user interface patch being provided with the complimentary
                    second part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system,
 5                  the interface side of the user interface patch being attachable (or connectable) to
           the user interface and/or the component associated with the user interface (e.g. a tube or
           tubing), and
   wherein the tube comprises:
           a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
 9         body, an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body, and
           a coating encapsulating the internal form, the coating securing the internal form to the
           tubular body.
           Preferably the interface is a nasal cannula.
           Preferably the interface includes one or a pair of nasal prongs.
25         Preferably the interface is comprises a securement system.
           Preferably the tube is a medical breathing tube.
           Preferably the interface is a nasal cannula arrangement comprising: at least one nasal prong,
   the prong having a gas outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's nare and a gas inlet fluidly
   connected to the gas outlet, the at least one nasal prong comprising a backing, the backing
30 configured to rest on a user's face, wherein a lip extends about at least a part of the perimeter of a
   rear surface of the backing, the rear surface configured for receiving or retaining the user interface
   patch, such that in use, the user interface patch may be releasably attachable or connectable to, or
   with, the dermal patch affixed to a user's face.
           Preferably the lip is a barrier.
35         Preferably the lip is deformable.

                                                       - 29
            Preferably the lip extends at least about the perimeter of a region substantially adjacent to a
   prong associated with the backing.
            Preferably the lip is an endless lip extending about the perimeter of the rear surface of the
   backing.
 5          Preferably the lip is a series of one or more separate lips.
            Preferably the one or more separate lips are adjacent or adjoining or overlapping lip
   portions.
            Preferably, in use, the lip substantially forms a fluid (e.g. liquid) seal, or barrier to fluid,
   between the rear surface of the backing and a cannula facing surface of the user interface patch.
 9          Preferably the backing is substantially planar or flat or contoured (such as a pre-formed
   curve) backing configured to rest on a user's face.
            Preferably the backing assists as a stabilizer of the prong(s) in the nare(s) of a user.
            Preferably the at least one backing extends laterally outward from the at least one nasal
   prong, away from the septum of a user.
 5          It should be appreciated the various embodiments of tube as described above may be
   utilised in combination with a user interface or nasal cannula, such as for example those described
   herein.
            It should be appreciated the various embodiments of securement system as described
   above may be utilised in combination with a user interface or nasal cannula, such as for example
 9 those described herein.
            It should be appreciated the various embodiments of a user interface assembly as described
   herein may be utilised in combination with the tubes as also described herein.
            The term comprising as used in the specification and claims means 'consisting at least in
   part of. When interpreting each statement in the specification and claims that includes the term
25 'comprising', features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be present. Related
   terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprises' are to be interpreted in the same manner.
            This disclosure may also be said to broadly consist in the parts, elements and features
   referred to or indicated in the specification of the application and/or statements of disclosure,
   individually or collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements,
30 features or statements of disclosure, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have
   known equivalents in the art to which this disclosure relates, such known equivalents are deemed
   to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
            The disclosure consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
   following gives examples only.
35

                                                     - 30
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will now be
   described with reference to the drawings of preferred embodiments, which embodiments are
   intended to illustrate and not to limit the disclosure, and in which figures:
 5         Figure 1 is a side elevation of a corrugated medical tube with one end of the tube shown in
   cross section to depict an arrangement of a tubular body about an internal form.
           Figure 2 is a side elevation of a medical tube shown in cross section with the tubular body
   cut away to reveal a continuous helical internal form.
           Figure 3A is a side elevation of a medical tube shown in cross section with the tubular body
 9 cut away to reveal a plurality of independent rings that represent a discrete internal form.
           Figure 3B is a side elevation of a medical tube shown in cross section illustrating a
   sandwich wall structure about an internal form.
           Figure 3C is a side elevation a further embodiment where an internal form is embedded in
   the wall.
 5         Figure 3D is a side elevation a further embodiment where a tubular body is heat shrunk
   onto an internal form.
           Figure 3E is a side elevation a further alternative embodiment where an internal form
   operates to retain the tubular body in a desired form.
           Figure 4 is a schematic representation of apparatus for forming medical tubing, which
 9 apparatus includes a hopper, a feed screw and a die head.
           Figure 5 is a schematic representation of the die head used for forming a reinforced
   medical tube.
           Figure 6 is a perspective view of a nasal interface incorporating a pair of reinforced medical
   tubes each coupled to a nasal prong.
25         Figure 7 is a perspective view of the nasal interface of Figure 6 incorporating a backing
   component to stabilize the interface in position and to receive a headgear attachment.
           Figure 8 is a front elevation of the nasal interface of Figure 7.
           Figure 9 is a top elevation of the nasal interface of Figure 7.
           Figure 10 is a side elevation of the nasal interface of Figure 7.
30         Figure 11 is a front elevation of the nasal interface of Figure 7 shown in cross-section.
           Figure 12 is a perspective view of the nasal interface of Figure 7 in position on an infant's
   head.
           Figure 13 is a perspective view of a nasal interface incorporating a pair of reinforced
   medical tubes each coupled to a nasal prong, wherein the respective nasal prongs are secured to a
35 harness that includes a plurality of ribs and a pair of headgear attachments.

                                                      - 31
            Figure 14 is a perspective view of a nasal interface incorporating a pair of reinforced
   medical tubes, each coupled to a nasal prong, the respective nasal prongs are secured to a harness
   that includes a plurality of ribs.
            Figure 15 shows a nasal cannula positioned in an operative position on the face of a user,
 5 the cannula positioned according to an embodiment of the seventh aspect.
            Figure 16 is a side view of the nasal cannula arrangement of Figure 15.
            Figure 17 shows an embodiment according to the seventh aspect and its constituent
   assembly components.
            Figure 18 shows a nasal cannula positioned in an operative position on the face of a user,
 9 the cannula positioned according to an embodiment of the sixth aspect.
            Figure 19 is a side view of the nasal cannula arrangement of Figure 18.
            Figure 20 shows an exploded perspective view of an embodiment according to the sixth
   aspect and its constituent assembly components.
            Figure 21 shows the relative layers of an embodiment according to the sixth aspect, from
 5 right to left (user not shown).
            Figure 22 illustrates one embodiment of a securing patch according to the sixth aspect.
            Figure 23 illustrates another or alternative embodiment of a securing patch according to the
   sixth aspect.
            Figure 24A is a close up perspective view of a sectioned medical tube with the corrugated
 3 tubular body cut away to reveal a coated helical internal form.
            Figure 24B is a close up perspective view of a sectioned medical tube with the smooth
   tubular body cut away to reveal a coated helical internal form.
            Figure 25A is a schematic front elevation of a pair of nasal prongs illustrating the shape of
   the prong and the internal lumen.
25          Figure 25B is a schematic side elevation of a pair of nasal prongs illustrating the shape of
   the prong and the internal lumen.
            Figure 25C is a schematic front elevation of a pair of inverted nasal prongs illustrating the
   shape of the prong and the internal lumen.
            Figure 25D is a schematic perspective view of a pair of inverted nasal prongs illustrating
30 the shape of the prong and the internal lumen.
            Figure 26A is a perspective elevation of a nasal interface with curved backing components.
            Figure 26B is a front elevation of a nasal interface with curved backing components.
            Figure 26C is a top elevation of a nasal interface with curved backing components.
            Figure 26D is a rear elevation of a nasal interface with curved backing components.
35          Figure 27A is a close up of the nasal prongs illustrated in Figure 17D.

                                                      - 32
             Figure 27B is a close up of the nasal prongs illustrated in Figure 17C.
             Figures 28 and 29 show a nasal cannula arrangement in use with a backing component
   comprising a lip.
             Figure 30 is a front perspective view of a nasal cannula arrangement with a backing
 5 component comprising a lip.
             Figure 31 is a rear perspective view of a nasal cannula arrangement with a backing
   component comprising a lip.
             Figure 32 is a top rear perspective view of a nasal cannula arrangement with a backing
   component comprising a lip and a user interface patch on a rear surface of the backing component.
 D           Figure 33 is a cross sectional view through the nasal cannula arrangement of figure 32 when
   user interface patch is in connection with a dermal patch.
             Figure 34 is a side rear perspective view of the nasal cannula arrangement of figures 30-33.
             Figure 35 is a rear view of an alternative nasal cannula arrangement of figures 28 to 34
   illustrating a series of segmented lips.
 5           Figure 36A illustrates the outline of a dermal patch according to some embodiments.
             Figures 36B to 36R illustrate various embodiments of a fastener substrate portion for
   securing to the dermal patch of Figure 36A.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 D           Medical tubing (i.e., breathing tubes) is subjected to various constraints.     Some of the
   constraints may be performance driven, such as weight, flexibility and flow characteristics. Other
   constraints may be mandated by regulatory authorities, where compliance is necessary before the
   tube may be used in medical applications. Mandated constraints may include an assessment of the
   structural integrity of the tube and the biocompatibility or sterility (for hygiene purposes) of the
25 tubing components.         One such constraint is bending induced flow resistance, which may be
   defined according to the relevant test provided in ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
             Biocompatibility of materials can be useful, for example materials which can interact or
   come into contact with breathing gases or other fluids, and which do not leach or impart material
   to breathing gases or other fluids which may be consumed or ingested by a user or patient. Sterility
30 may also be useful for helping ensure there is no or minimal (if any) transfer or disease to a user or
   patient.
             Accordingly, a multitude of criteria are considered during the design and testing of medical
   tubes, which is reflected in the variety of tubing available in the medical field.       The specialist
   requirements and peculiarities of different medical procedures and applications may also contribute
35 to the variety of medical tubing available. The specific nature of different medical applications

                                                     - 33
   means that a tube that is particularly well suited to a specific procedure may not satisfy the criteria
   for a different medical application.
            The application specific configuration of medical tubing can complicate and restrict the
   associated design process. Furthermore, the stringent regulations regarding component use often
 5 confine medical practitioners to strict compliance with component guidelines and instructions.
   Tubing
            A medical tube 100 is generally illustrated in Figure 1. In a first embodiment, the medical
   tube 100 is corrugated. However, the tube may also be produced or fabricated with a smooth
   outer surface (e.g. Figure 24B), or a generally smooth inner surface (e.g. Figures 3B, 3C). In one
 D illustrated embodiment the tube 100 comprises a tubular body 102. The body 102 defines a lumen
   107 that extends between open terminal ends of the body 102. An internal form 110 is enclosed
   within the lumen 107.       The internal form is supportive of the tubular body.       An outer-most
   perimeter of the internal form defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of
   the tubular body.
 5          The illustrated tube 100 has a corrugated profile that comprises a plurality of crests 104 and
   troughs 105. The crests 104 and troughs 105 extend around the circumference of the tube 100 and
   alternate along the tubular body 102 (or walls thereof) (i.e., in a direction generally parallel to a
   longitudinal axis 101 of the tube 100).
            The tubular body 102 defines the lumen 107 that extends between terminal ends of the
 D tube 100. For medical applications, the passage of gases through the tube 100 is confined to the
   lumen 107, with the tubular body 102 defining an outer boundary of the passageway. The tube 100
   preferably has an opening disposed adjacent either terminal end. Ideally, the opening is arranged
   generally coaxial with the lumen (i.e., aligned with the longitudinal axis 101 in the illustrated
   embodiment) to reduce flow disturbances within the tube 100.
25          The illustrated tube 100 also comprises the internal form 110 that the tubular body 102 is
   disposed over, about or around. The tubular body 102 encloses the internal form 110 within the
   lumen of the tube 100. The internal form 110 provides a skeleton that defines the general shape
   and contributes to the structural characteristics of the tube 100. Preferably, an inner face or surface
   of the tubular body 102 is secured to the internal form 110. The tubular body 102 and the internal
30 form 110 may be secured together by shrink fitting the tubular body 102 over the internal form 110
   (e.g. Figure 3D), applying the tubular body 102 over the internal form in a molten, semi-molten or
   an as yet uncured state, causing the inner surface of the tubular body 102 to fuse and bind (or
   bond) to the inner form 110 (e.g. Figure 3C), or even providing a tubular body with at least an
   inner wall layer and an outer wall layer with the internal form sandwiched between them (e.g.
35 Figure 3B).

                                                     - 34
            The internal form 110 preferably defines a skeletal substructure that is arranged about the
   longitudinal axis 101 of the tube 100 and that supports the tubular body 102. The tubular body
   102 is disposed over the internal form 110 and the corrugations in the tubular body 102 reflect the
   structure of the reinforcing skeleton provided by the internal form 110. The crests 104 of the tube
 5 corrugation correspond to reinforcing ribs (i.e., the shape of the internal form 110) that support the
   tubular body 102. The troughs 105 in the tube corrugation preferably are unsupported sections of
   the tubular body 102, which are suspended between adjacent reinforcing ribs.
            The internal form 110 such as those illustrated in Figures 1, 2, 3B-3D, 24A, 24B, comprises
   a continuous helical skeleton that has a similar structure to a coil spring. The skeleton produces a
 9 helical corrugation in the tubular body 102 that is visible in the left-hand portion of Figure 1. The
   internal form 110 is continuously secured to the tubular body 102 at the crests 104 of the
   corrugation in the illustrated embodiment. The tubular body 102 conforms to the contour of the
   internal form 110, wrapping about each reinforcing rib. In the illustrated embodiment, the contact
   interface between each reinforcing rib and the tubular body 102 may exceed half of the
 5 circumferential surface of the rib.
            Figure 3 illustrates another embodiment of a medical tube 200. In this embodiment, an
   internal form 210 comprises a plurality of rings spaced along a longitudinal axis 201 of the tube
   200. Each ring 210 provides a circumferential reinforcing rib positioned coincident with a crest
   204 in the tubular body 202.        The individual rings constitute the reinforcing skeleton of the
 9 illustrated internal form 210.    Accordingly, the tube 200 has a circumferential corrugation with
   discrete crests 204 and troughs 205 extending along the tube 200 about the longitudinal axis 201.
   Adjacent rings may be linked to resist narrowing of the lumen when the tube is twisted (i.e., when a
   torsional force is applied). The rings may be formed from washers or discs with an aperture to
   allow flow therethrough. Preferably the rings are toroidal or annular in shape.
25          Another embodiment of tube 1100 is illustrated in Figure 24B. The tube 1100 has a similar
   construction to the corrugated tube 100 illustrated in Figure 1, comprising a tubular body 1102 and
   an internal form 1110. However, the tubular body 1102 of the tube 1100 illustrated in Figure 24B
   defines a smooth or non- or un-corrugated outer wall.
            The internal form may have an outer coating as illustrated in the sectioned tube in Figures
30 24A and 24B. The coating illustrated in Figures 24A and 24B is about 35 microns thick and the
   tube wall is about 150 microns thick. The coating 1111 fully encapsulates the internal form 1110.
   In an alternate form it may also be advantageous to partially coat the internal form, such as coating
   discrete sections over of the length of the internal form 1110.
            The internal form 1110 may be coated to increase the strength of the bond formed with the
35 tubular body 1102, improve biocompatibility or sterility within the tube and/or isolate the internal

                                                     - 35
   form from the contents of the tube (such as to prevent corrosion of the internal form).Preferably
   the coating is sufficiently thin that it does not negatively impact on the mechanical properties of
   the internal form, such as reducing elasticity or flexibility.
            The tube of Figure 3B is of a generally sandwich construction the tube is made by inserting
 5 a thin walled polymer tube into the centre of an internal form, such as a coil spring. This assembly
   is then passed through a crosshead tubing extrusion die which extrudes a molten and similarly thin
   walled polymer tube over the outside of the assembly. The molten outer tube is brought in contact
   with the inner tube by means of draw-down of the extruded melt, and/or a pressure differential
   which may be a vacuum applied between the two layers, or a positive pressure applied to the inside
 9 of the inner tube or the outside of the outer tube or a combination of all these. Contact of the
   molten outer tube with the inner tube causes bonding between the two, and once cooled this leaves
   a tube consisting of an inner and an outer wall of a tubular body. The internal form (e.g. coil
   spring wire reinforcement) remains sandwiched between the two wall layers.
            Such a tube may be formed to have a fairly smooth bore to provide low resistance to flow,
 5 while the exterior wall layer of the tube is corrugated to aid with tubular body flexibility. The
   internal form is locked in place mechanically by the sandwich effect.           Therefore, pre-coated
   internal forms may not be required to achieve this adhesion to the tube wall, although that option
   exists. This tube may be two thin layers of tubing of similar material bonded together with the
   internal form (e.g. spring) locked into position away from the gas path.         This provides a very
 9 flexible yet strong, crush and kink resistant tube. Mechanically locking the spring in place helps
   maintain the integrity of the tubing construction under axial stress, and not having the spring in the
   gas path reduces the biocompatibility or sterility requirements of internal form components.
            The tube of Figure 3C is of a generally embedded construction.             The tube of this
   embodiment is made by an internal form (such as a coil spring) being passed through a crosshead
25 extrusion die which extrudes a polymer tube (tubular body) over the outside of the internal form
   (e.g. spring). Using a haul-off speed to achieve draw-down combined with either an internal
   vacuum or external positive pressure (or both) the polymer is sucked between the coils of the
   internal form (e.g. spring)to the point where the internal form is enclosed and locked in place
   mechanically. The tubular body formed is of a generally corrugated form (flexible) and does not
30 require pre-coated internal forms to achieve adhesion, although that option exists. The tubular
   body is of a sufficient temperature that once the internal form is surrounded, the tubular body may
   come into contact with itself and self-weld to itself from the heat of extrusion. In this respect,
   weld lines or welded regions are shown as, W in figure 3C.
            The tube of Figure 3D is of a generally heat shrunk construction. The tube is made by
35 placing an internal form (e.g. a coil spring) within a length of a tubular body that is thin walled and

                                                    - 36
   formed of a heat shrinkable tubing or energy. Heat (or energy appropriate to cause a material
   shrinkage) is then applied which causes the tubular body to shrink down and cling tightly to the
   internal form (e.g. spring), and in the open spaces along the wall between subsequent wall sections
   supported by the internal form the shrinkage causes corrugations to form. This leaves a corrugated
 5 tube with an internal form (e.g. wire) reinforcement. Corrugations result in good flexibility. If the
   inner surface or face of the tubular body is pre-coated with a suitable adhesive the internal form
   and tube wall will be further attached or connected to each other.
            The tube of Figure 3E is of a further alternative form. The tubular body can be formed
    (e.g. by extrusion) and then pulled or drawn through or within internal form 110. The internal
 D form 110 can therefore substantially surround the tubular body (i.e. internal form becomes an form
   which is external of the tubular body).      See for example Figure 3E. The internal form 110
   performs to support or retain the tubular body 102 in a desired form, shape or configuration. As
   with some of the other embodiments described herein the internal form 110 performs to define a
   series of alternating crests and troughs, a perimeter of the internal form defining the troughs 105.
 5 The region of the crests 104 between the supported sections (by the internal form 110) not being
   directly supported by the internal form 110. An advantage of this construction and configuration
   is further reduced need for the internal form 110 to be pre-coated for biocompatibility or sterility
    (e.g. hygiene) reasons such a form 110 may however be pre-coated to reduce corrosion or other
   effects from environmental conditions.
 D          Some advantages of coating the internal form with a suitable material include:
            - improving the overall strength and durability of the tube by more securely fixing the
   internal form to the tubular body.
            - reinforcing the tubular body to improve resistance to swelling and degradation caused by
   exposure to chemicals.
25          - improving biocompatibility or sterility by increasing the range of permissible materials
   that can be used for the internal form as the coating presents a biocompatible (or sterile) barrier or
   layer of material around the internal form itself (also allowing the internal form to be colored to
   improve aesthetics and/or product recognition).
            - protecting the internal form from the contents of the tube (to reduce corrosion and/or
30 other degradation of the internal form).
            Coating the internal form with a suitable material may assist in mitigating any tendency of
   the internal form to separate from the tubular body when the bond is stressed, as may happen
   when certain materials swell from exposure to certain chemicals (such as oils, alcohols and/or
   detergents) or in breathable materials when exposed to water vapor or aqueous solutions.

                                                   - 37
           In various embodiments (e.g. Figures 1, 2, 3, 24A and 24B) the internal form supports the
   tubular body and resists narrowing and constriction of the tube lumen.         The tubular body is
   beneficially formed from, formed of, or comprises a suitable polymer, such as a thermoplastic
   elastomer, a propylene based elastomer, a liquid silicon rubbers (LSR), a breathable thermoplastic
 5 polyurethane, or a breathable polyamide.      Polymers may be those such as, but not limited to,
   polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for example,
   thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or
   thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers, or breathable
   polyamides. Use of breathable materials for forming the tubular body may also be utilized, thereby
 9 providing further benefits of breathability for such medical tubing or circuit. Particularly suitable
   polymer materials are those with a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or
   about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or
   about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90. Such
   materials may also be used for constructing of the nasal cannula arrangement as described in
 5 further detail below.
           The tubular body may be formed from, formed of, or comprise a variety of thermoplastic
   polyurethanes, thermoplastic polyester elastomers or liquid silicon rubbers (LSR), including
   breathable grades.     Advantageously, the material grades selected have beneficial mechanical
   properties (such as durability, tear resistance and high elasticity) and may optionally provide for
 9 good clarity so that any pooling of water within the tube can be detected.
           The coating may be formed from the same material as the tubular body or a different
   material. Advantageously, the coating 1111 may be chemically compatible with the tubular body
   1102 so that the coating 1111 and the tubular body 1102 may be welded together to form a bond
   linking the internal form 1110 to the tubular body 1102. The internal form may be fabricated from
25 suitable polymers of other materials that are chemically compatible with the materials of the
   tubular body 1102. In one form, the coating 1111 may be a non-breathable material (even though
   the tubular body 1102 may be), so that the internal form 1110 is isolated from any moisture in the
   lumen of the tube. Advantageously, both the tubular body and the coating may be formed from,
   formed of, or comprise durable thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU's). Where the tubular body is
30 formed from, formed of, or comprises thermoplastic polyurethane, the coating may alternatively be
   formed from, formed of, or comprise a variety of polymers. Advantageously, the polymer grade
   selected for the coating is tough and has good wear resistance to enable the internal form to be
   manipulated after coating (such as being wound into a helical form).
           Further, the tubular body can be extruded or otherwise formed such that the wall is of a
35 minimal thickness to reduce the weight of the tube, further improving the flexibility characteristics

                                                       - 38
   of the tube. The internal form 110 can be fabricated from an elastic material, such as a suitable
   metal or polymer, to accommodate further bending.
             Advantageously, the minimal wall thickness of the tubular body embodiment helps to
   facilitate the improved tube flexibility. Further, such a characteristic benefits those tubes formed
 5 of breathable materials, the breathability of such medical tubing being enhanced by the reduced or
   minimal wall thickness. Such a combination of reduced or minimal wall thickness and breathable
   material usage, in combination, may be particularly advantageous when used as part of a medical
   breathing circuit or system.
             The construction of the tube enhances extensibility by accumulating an ancillary length of
 9 tubular body suspended in the troughs between the reinforcing ribs of the internal form 110.
            As shown in an alternative embodiment Figure 3E, extensibility is provided by the ancillary
   length of tubular body suspended in the crests between the troughs formed by internal form 110
   acting in tubular body.
             The ancillary length of wall permits the pitch of the internal form to fluctuate, so that the
 5 tube can stretch and compress longitudinally without significantly narrowing the lumen. Buckling
   and straightening of the ancillary length allows the tube to stretch and compress longitudinally with
   minimal tensile or compressive deformation or stress in the tube wall itself.
             Flexibility of the tube also is improved by allowing the spacing between adjacent
   reinforcing ribs to vary about the tube circumference to accommodate bending. Circumferentially
 9 altering the rib spacing permits the internal form to simultaneously extend and condense on
   opposing sides of the tube to accommodate bends in the lumen without pinching or kinking the
   tube while still meeting the requirements for flexibility defined by ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth
   edition, 2000-06-01).
             In addition, the internal form may be electrically conductive. The electrically conductive
25 internal form may facilitate a number of optional additional features for operation or use of such a
   tube. For example, the internal form can be (or may comprise) an electrically powered heater. For
   example, the internal form may comprise of one or more components.
             In another embodiment, the internal form can comprise one or more electrically
   conductive members, electrically powered heaters or sensors (e.g., flow sensors, temperature
30 sensors, humidity sensors, pressure sensors, or the like).
             In some embodiments, the tube can comprise a heater, such as an electrically powered
   heater (e.g., a heater wire, heater circuit, or the like).
             Provision of heating or heaters may assist in the maintenance of humidity of gas(es) passing
   through the tube and other related components. Heating may also alleviate problems associated
35 with "rain-out."      Provision of sensors advantageously assists in providing information feedback

                                                    - 39
   systems to help with associated heater control systems or information feedback to user monitor or
   monitoring systems.
           It should also be appreciated the internal form 110 may be provided of a variable or
   varying pitch along a length of tubular body.
 5         In yet further aspects of the invention, one or more internal forms 110 may be provided.
   In this manner, double helix forms of internal forms, or other configurations may be provided for
   supporting the tube, yet maintaining flexibility and extensibility of such a constructed tube.
           The construction of medical tubing as previously described, and for example as illustrated
   in Figures 1-3E, 24A, or 24B is particularly applicable for user interfaces where a short dedicated
 9 length of tube couples the interface to a breathing system. The flexibility and extensibility of the
   tubing is capable of compensating for patient movement, while the internal form 110 resists
   narrowing of the gas lumen (e.g., pinching, kinking and crushing) from forces attributable to this
   movement.
           The tubing may be utilized for both adult and neonatal applications but is well suited for
 5 neonatal interfaces, where the dedicated tubing is smallest. For example, a neonatal interface tube
   according to the illustrated construction may have an internal diameter of tubular body (or lumen
   diameter) of about 1.5mm to about 4.5mm, an external diameter in the order of about 1.6mm to
   about 4.6mm and a wall thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm. Preferably, the internal
   diameter is about 2.4mm to about 3mm, the external diameter about 2.6mm to about 3.4 mm and
 9 the wall thickness about 0.1mm to about 0.2mm.
           The internal diameter of tubular body (or lumen diameter) may be about 1.5mm to about
   4.5mm, or about 1.6mm to about 4.4mm, or about 1.7mm to about 4.3mm, or about 1.8mm to
   about 4.2mm, or about 1.9mm to about 4.1mm, or about 2.0mm to about 4.0mm, or about 2.1mm
   to about 3.9mm, or about 2.2mm to about 3.8mm, or about 2.3mm to about 3.7mm, or about
25 2.4mm to about 3.6mm, or about 2.5mm to about 3.5mm, or about 2.6mm to about 3.4mm, or
   about 2.7mm to about 3.3mm, or about 2.8mm to about 3.2mm, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
   The internal diameter (or lumen diameter) may be about 1.5mm, 1.6mm, 1.7mm, 1.8mm, 1.9mm,
   2.0mm, 2.1mm, 2.2mm, 2.3mm, 2.4mm, 2.5mm, 2.6mm, 2.7mm, 2.8mm, 2.9mm, 3.0mm, 3.1mm,
   3.2mm, 3.3mm, 3.4mm, 3.5mm, 3.6mm, 3.7mm, 3.8mm, 3.9mm, 4.0mm, 4.1mm, 4.2mm, 4.3mm,
30 4.4mm, or 4.5mm.
           The external diameter of the tubular body may be about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about
   1.7mm to about 4.5mm, or about 1.8mm to about 4.4mm, or about 1.9mm to about 4.3mm, or
   about 2.0mm to about 4.2mm, or about 2.1mm to about 4.1mm, or about 2.2mm to about 4.0mm,
   or about 2.3mm to about 3.9mm, or about 2.4mm to about 3.8mm, or about 2.5mm to about
35 3.7mm, or about 2.6mm to about 3.6mm, or about 2.7mm to about 3.5mm, or about 2.8mm to

                                                     - 40
   about 3.4mm, or about 2.9mm to about 3.3mm. The external diameter may be about 1.6mm,
   1.7mm, 1.8mm, 1.9mm, 2.0mm, 2.1mm, 2.2mm, 2.3mm, 2.4mm, 2.5mm, 2.6mm, 2.7mm, 2.8mm,
   2.9mm, 3.0mm, 3.1mm, 3.2mm, 3.3mm, 3.4mm, 3.5mm, 3.6mm, 3.7mm, 3.8mm, 3.9mm, 4.0mm,
   4.1mm, 4.2mm, 4.3mm, 4.4mm, 4.5mm or 4.6mm. Preferably is about 3mm to about 5mm.
 5          The wall thickness of the tubular body may be is about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or about
   0.06mm to about 0.24mm, or about 0.07mm to about 0.23mm, or about 0.08mm to about
   0.22mm, or about 0.09mm to about 0.21mm, or about 0.10mm to about 0.20mm, or about
   0.11mm to about 0.19mm, or about 0.12mm to about 0.18mm, or about 0.13mm to about
   0.17mm, or about 0.14mm to about 0.16mm. The wall thickness may be about 0.05mm, 0.06mm,
 D 0.07mm, 0.08mm, 0.09mm, 0.10mm, 0.11mm, 0.12mm, 0.13mm, 0.14mm, 0.15mm, 0.16mm,
   0.17mm, 0.18mm, 0.19mm, 0.20mm, 0.21mm, 0.22mm, 0.23mm, 0.24mm or 0.25mm. Preferably
   is about 0.1mm to about 0.2mm.
            The tubular body may have a corrugation depth of about 0.1mm to about 0.5mm.
            A corrugation depth may be defined by the distance between a point of minimum radius
 5 from the longitudinal axis (mid-line) of the tubular body to a point of maximum radius from the
   longitudinal axis (mid-line) of the tubular body.
            In one embodiment of the invention, the ratio of pitch of the internal form to outer
   diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about 0.50, more preferably
   the ratio is about 0.20 to about 0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or about 0.29.
 D          In another embodiment, the ratio of the internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual
   internal form element or member) to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is
   about 0.02 to about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is
   0.06.
            In yet a further embodiment, the ratio of the corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer)
25 tube diameter is about 0.05 to about 0.09.
            Further, another embodiment may require that physical characteristics of the tubular body
   contribute to desired flexibility and/or structural support required by the tube.
            Tubing of this size is viable for dedicated neonatal applications because the peak
   inspiratory flow requirements of a new born may be satisfied despite the restrictive gas flow lumen.
30 The small size and weight of the tubing reduces pressure on the infant's face and reduces the visual
   intrusiveness of the interface. The flexibility and weight of the tubing increases user comfort and
   simplifies fitting and adjustment of the interface by a physician.
            The internal form preferably is fabricated from a stainless steel wire, most preferably grade
   302, 304 or 316, or other suitably elastic material with appropriate biocompatibility or sterility
35 characteristics that can be wound into a helical skeleton of suitable size to support the tubular

                                                    - 41
   body. Ideally, the outer diameter of the helical skeleton is about 1.7mm to about 4.4mm, while the
   wire used to construct the skeleton may have a diameter of about 0.05mm to about 0.3mm. The
   pitch of the helical skeleton is preferably in the order of about 0.4mm to about 1.8mm to provide
   the desired tube flexibility, but may be about 1mm to about 1.5mm. Preferably the outer diameter
 5 of the helical skeleton is about 2.4mm to about 3.4mm, the diameter of the wire is about 0.15mm
   to about 0.2mm, and the pitch of the helical skeleton is about 0.8mm to about 1.4mm.
           The outer diameter of the internal form (e.g. helical skeleton) may be about 1.7mm to
   about 4.4mm, or about 1.8mm to about 4.3mm, or about 1.9mm to about 4.2mm, or about 2.0mm
   to about 4.1mm, or about 2.1mm to about 4.0mm, or about 2.2mm to about 3.9mm, or about
 9 2.3mm to about 3.8mm, or about 2.4mm to about 3.7mm, or about 2.5mm to about 3.6mm, or
   about 2.6mm to about 3.5mm, or about 2.7mm to about 3.4mm, or about 2.8mm to about 3.3mm,
   or about 2.9mm to about 3.2mm. The outer diameter of the helical skeleton may be about 1.7mm,
   1.8mm, 1.9mm, 2.0mm, 2.1mm, 2.2mm, 2.3mm, 2.4mm, 2.5mm, 2.6mm, 2.7mm, 2.8mm, 2.9mm,
   3.0mm, 3.1mm, 3.2mm, 3.3mm, 3.4mm, 3.5mm, 3.6mm, 3.7mm, 3.8mm, 3.9mm, 4.0mm, 4.1mm,
 5 4.2mm, 4.3mm, or 4.4mm.
           The diameter of the internal form (e.g. wire used to construct the skeleton) may be about
   0.05mm to about 0.30mm, or about 0.06mm to about 0.29mm, or about 0.07mm to about
   0.28mm, or about 0.08mm to about 0.27mm, or about 0.09mm to about 0.26mm, or about
   0.10mm to about 0.25mm, or about 0.11mm to about 0.24mm, or about 0.12mm to about
 9 0.23mm, or about 0.13mm to about 0.22mm, or about 0.14mm to about 0.21mm, or about
   0.15mm to about 0.20mm, or about 0.16mm to about 0.19mm. The diameter of the wire used to
   construct the skeleton may be about 0.05mm, 0.06mm, 0.07mm, 0.08mm, 0.09mm, 0.10mm,
   0.11mm, 0.12mm, 0.13mm, 0.14mm, 0.15mm, 0.16mm, 0.17mm, 0.18mm, 0.19mm, 0.20mm,
   0.21mm, 0.22mm, 0.23mm, 0.24mm or 0.25mm, 0.26mm, 0.27mm, 0.28mm, 0.29mm, or 0.30mm.
25 Preferably is about 0.1mm to about 0.4mm.
           The pitch of the internal form (e.g. helical skeleton) may be about 0.40mm to about
   1.80mm, or about 0.45mm to about 1.75mm, or about 0.50mm to about 1.70mm, or about
   0.55mm to about 1.65mm, or about 0.60mm to about 1.60mm, or about 0.65mm to about
   1.55mm, or about 0.70mm to about 1.50mm, or about 0.75mm to about 1.45mm, or about
30 0.80mm to about 1.40mm, or about 0.85mm to about 1.35mm, or about 0.90mm to about
   1.30mm, or about 0.95mm to about 1.25mm, or about 1.00mm to about 1.2mm, or about 1.05mm
   to about 1.15mm. The pitch of the helical skeleton may be about 0.40mm, 0.45mm, 0.5mm,
   0.55mm, 0.6mm, 0.65mm, 0.7mm, 0.75mm, 0.8mm, 0.85mm, 0.9mm, 0.95mm, 1.0mm, 1.05mm,
   1.1mm, 1.15mm, 1.2mm, 1.25mm, 1.3mm, 1.35mm, 1.4mm, 1.45mm, 1.5mm, 1.55mm, 1.6mm,
35 1.65mm, 1.7mm, 1.75mm, or 1.8mm. Preferably is about 1mm to about 1.5mm.

                                                    - 42
            In various forms of the invention, the internal form may be provided to the tubular body
   having a variable or varied pitch. In this manner, the pitch of the internal form can be of a varied
   pitch once a part of the constructed tube. Varied pitch may have particular advantages, including
   increased regions of strength/support or flexibility. Such systems may also be useful in supporting
 5 even thinner walled tubular bodies.
            In yet a further embodiment, varied pitch allows variance of the density of internal form
   per unit length of the tube. Such a construction may be useful where the internal form or parts of
   the internal form is provided as a heating source or sensors for or of gases passing through the
   lumen.
 9          The internal form 110 may comprise a single continuous wind of wire or multiple winds
   linked end on end to form a helical skeleton, element or rib. Alternatively, the internal form may
   comprise a plurality of discrete rings. The rings may be linked longitudinally along the tube. A
   wire, elongate polymer or other suitable coupling (including a plurality of wires or elongate
   polymers) may extend along the lumen of the tube to link the rings. Multiple links may be spaced
 5 about the circumference of the rings.
            For neonatal applications, the tubing provides an alternative to the transparent PVC tubing
   typically used to support and supply breathing gases to a nasal cannula.          Preferably, the user
   interface is supported independently of the interface tubing (e.g., dedicated dermal pads) so that
   movement of the tubing is not restricted and the tube may be more pliable.
 9 Tubing Fabrication Methods
            In addition to that previously described, a medical tube may be fabricated by providing a
   tubular body about an internal form (or in alternative embodiments, by an internal form about a
   tubular body). The tubular body defines a lumen that generally encloses the internal form. During
   fabrication, in one embodiment, a reduced pressure may be applied within (or to) the lumen such
25 that the reduced pressure draws the tubular body radially inward of the lumen and of an outer
   most perimeter defined by the internal form. The outer-most perimeter of the internal form may
   define a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.     The tube
   may also be produced with a smooth outer surface as illustrated in Figure 24B.             In another
   embodiment, during fabrication, an extension (or stretch) may be applied to at least a part or a
30 region of the tubular body enclosing the internal form, such that release of the extension (or
   stretch) returns (or allows) the extended (or stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw
   radially inward of the lumen and of an outermost perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer
   most perimeter defining a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular
   body.

                                                    - 43
            In yet a further embodiment, a combination of both applying a reduced pressure in the
   lumen and an extension (or stretch) to the tubular body may be implemented for fabricating the
   tube.
            An apparatus for fabricating reinforced medical tubing is illustrated in Figures 4 and 5. The
 5 illustrated apparatus comprises an extruder 310 and an associated die head 317.           Raw material
   (typically thermoplastic beads, but could be any other form of raw material as a master batch) is fed
   into the extruder, where it is heated, and pressed or passed through the die head 317 to form the
   tubular body of a medical tube 301, such as the tubes discussed above.               The tube 301 is
   subsequently advanced through an air wipe 340 where compressed air is passed over the tube 301
 9 to cool the tubular body.
            An apparatus for gripping or applying the extension (or stretch) to the tubular body can be
   utilized. In such manner the tubular body is allowed to stretch over or about the internal form,
   and then on release of the extension (or from the stretched condition) come into a gripping
   relationship with the internal form, and thus taking the shape of the outer-most perimeter defined
 5 by the internal form.
            The potential materials that may be used to form the tubular body include thermoplastic
   elastomers, propylene based elastomers, thermoplastic breathable polyester elastomers, liquid
   silicon rubbers (LSR) and breathable thermoplastic polyurethane, or breathable polyamide, such as
   those with Shore A of about 30 to about 90, as discussed above.
 9          The raw material for the tubular body is fed into a top mounted hopper 312, for example.
   The hopper 312 funnels the raw material into the barrel of the extruder 310 under the influence of
   gravity or another suitable feeder system. A feed screw 313 is housed within the extruder barrel
   and advances the material along the barrel toward the die head 317. The feed screw 313 is coupled
   to a rotational drive 314, which rotates the screw about its longitudinal shaft.
25          The material is heated to a molten or semi-molten state inside the barrel. The barrel may
   be actively heated or the friction generated as the material moves along the barrel may be sufficient
   to melt the material.
            A suitable extruder for fabricating medical tubing is supplied by Welex. A Welex extruder
   equipped with a 30-40mm diameter screw and typically a 12-16mm annular die head with gap of
30 0.5-1.0mm has been found to be suitable for producing low cost tubes quickly. Similar extrusion
   machines are provided by American Kuhne (Germany), AXON AB Plastics Machinery (Sweden),
   AMUT (Italy), and Battenfeld (Germany and China), for example.
            To facilitate co-extrusion of the tube components, the raw material for the tubular body
   may be fed tangentially into the die head 317. The tubular body then can be extruded over the
35 internal form as the internal form is advanced through the die head 317, with the molten or semi-

                                                     - 44
   molten tubular body being laid over the internal form. The molten tubular body preferably adheres
   to the internal form as it cools, securing the tube components together.
            In the illustrated embodiment, the die head 317 (illustrated in Figure 5) is adapted for
   arrangement normal to the barrel of the extruder 310, with a side port 320 positioned adjacent the
 5 extruder outlet 315. The molten or semi-molten material exiting the extruder 310 is fed into the
   side port 320 in the die head 317 and released into a circumferential chamber. The circumferential
   chamber exits in a nozzle 325 through which the internal form 302 is drawn. The pressure created
   by the extruder 310 forces the material through a constriction 325 about the internal form 302 so
   that the tubular body 301 is extruded directly over the internal form. Preferably, the internal form
 9 is continuously advanced through the die head 317 at a substantially constant rate (although the
   rate of advance may be modulated to alter the thickness along the tubular body at a constant rate
   of extrusion).
            Suction is applied to the interior of the die head through a vacuum port 321. The suction
   reduces the pressure within the lumen of the tube following extrusion, causing the molten or semi
 5 molten tubular body to be drawn in about the internal form and creating a corrugation in the outer
   surface of the tube. Preferably the material of the tubular body is still sufficiently glutinous from
   the extrusion process to adhere about the internal form.
            Application of the reduced pressure within or to the lumen of the tubular body may be by
   application of, for example, a vacuumous or reduced pressure to the passage of the lumen.
 9 Alternatively, the reduced pressure may be a relative or comparatively reduced pressure.           For
   example, the pressure surrounding the tubular body may be increased such that the pressure within
   the lumen is then relatively less than the pressure surrounding the tubular body. In this manner,
   the tubular body experiences a pressure differential that encourages the tubular body to be drawn
   (or pushed) radially inward. The pressure within the lumen and outside of the tubular body may
25 therefore be any suitable pressure such that the lumen is of a comparatively lesser pressure than the
   pressure surrounding the tubular body. Accordingly, the internal surface of the lumen is then
   drawn or pushed (by the pressure differentially) into contact with the internal form, thus forming
   or taking the shape of the outermost perimeter of the internal form in the embodiments illustrated
   in Figures 1, 2, 3 and 24A. Portions of the tubular body may be unsupported by internal form and
30 may be drawn further radially inward than the outermost perimeter of the internal form, thus
   further accentuating the shape defined by the internal form.
            Where the internal form is coated (for example as used in the tubes of Figures 24A and
   24B), the coating may have to be shielded from any source of excessive heat to avoid damage. In
   one particular embodiment, the internal form may be fabricated from a metallic wire formed from
35 medical grade stainless steel (although non medical grade materials may also be used with an

                                                      - 45
   encapsulating coating that presents a biocompatible layer or sterility and corrosion barrier). The
   wire can be encapsulated in a suitable coating by drawing the wire through a material bath. The
   raised temperature of the coating material in the bath may also partially sterilize the wire by killing
   any biological contaminants.
 5           For example, coating the wire with a suitable polymer grade may involve drawing the wire
   through a bath of molten polymer at temperatures in excess of 150'C, but may for example be
   more than 180'C or about 200'C (temperatures sufficient to enable a polymer melt to coat the
   surface of an internal form).       The wire may then be fabricated into an internal form when the
   coating has cooled sufficiently. The internal form may fabricated by spirally winding the coated
 9 wire about a mandrel.
             In other examples, the internal form may be coated or encapsulated via a dip process
   through a bath containing polymer or through an extrusion die head applying polymer to the
   internal form.
   Other applications
 5           It is anticipated that the present embodiments will find other medical applications to which
   it is particularly suited. For example, applications involving medical tubing that are desired to be
   lightweight and highly flexible with sufficient resistance to crushing, pinching and kinking may also
   include the delivery and exhaust limbs of a surgical humidification system, including those
   applications where the use of breathable medical tubing is preferred.
 9 User Interface
             The tube may be incorporated into a user interface, such as a nasal cannula, for delivering
   breathing gases to a user. A nasal interface incorporating the tube is illustrated in Figures 6 to 12.
   The illustrated interface 400 comprises a pair of nasal prongs 402. Each prong 402 is coupled to
   the terminal end of a tube 401. The other end of the tubes 401 can be coupled to a supply conduit
25 to interconnect the prongs 402 to a respiratory system.          The tubes 401 may be coupled to
   individual supply conduits or alternatively merged (e.g., by a Y coupling or other suitable
   connector, such as a manifold, for example) to form a single junction with a supply conduit and to
   facilitate delivery of breathing gases to the interface 400. An embodiment of the user interface 400
   is illustrated in Figure 12 fitted to an infant.
30           Each prong 402 defines a lumen that extends between a user end 410 and a tube end 415
   of the prong 402. The tube end 415 of the prong 402 couples the prong 402 to the interface tube
   401. The user end 410 of the prong 402 is configured to deliver respiratory gases to a user's nare
   and incorporates        an aperture 411 for this purpose.       The aperture 411 can be arranged
   concentrically with the terminal end of the prong 402 so that there is minimal disturbance to flow
35 exiting the prong 402. The tube end of the prong 402 can be anatomically shaped and/or conform

                                                    - 46
   closely to a user's nare, with the terminal end of the prong 402 (i.e., the end incorporating the
   aperture 411) being curved away from the septum, for example, to reduce the likelihood of
   irritation.
            The user end 410 and the tube end 415 of the prong 402 are connected by an arcuate
 5 elbow joint. The user end 410 and the tube end 415 are disposed generally normal in the illustrated
   embodiment, with the elbow joint passing through approximately 900. Beneficially, in one form
   the elbow joint can have a smooth transition (corresponding to a greater radius of curvature)
   between the adjacent sections of the prong 402 to minimize flow disturbances within the prong
   402.
 9          The interface tube 401 couples to the tube end 415 of the prong 402. Preferably the prong
   402 is moulded over the tube 401 to create an integrated component.                 In the illustrated
   embodiment, the tube 401 and the tube end section 415 of the prong 402 are arranged
   concentrically with the prong 402 extending about the tube 401. Preferably the majority of the
   tube end section 415 is formed over the tube 401 to increase the contact surface area and
 5 strengthen the joint between the prong 402 and the tube 401.
            The prongs 402 preferably are held in spaced relation. A backing or harness 403 is coupled
   to both prongs 402 in the illustrated embodiment. The backing 403 preferably retains the prongs
   402 in fixed spaced relation.     Different interface 400 sizes may be produced to accommodate
   variations in nasal spacing.
 9          The illustrated backing 403 also includes a housing 404 that generally encloses or captures
   at least a portion of the tube end 415 of the prong 402. The housing 404 incorporates a coupling
   405 that can be used to affix headgear for retaining the interface 400 in position.           A pair of
   outriggers 406 project outwardly from the backing 403 on either side of the tube 401.               The
   outriggers 406 increase a contact surface between the interface 400 and a patient, which distributes
25 the interface retention force over a greater area and reduces the pressure applied to a user's face.
            The user side face of the backing 403 and outriggers 406 (i.e., the side that rests against the
   face of a user) may be contoured to reflect anticipated anatomical structures. The backing 403 and
   the outriggers 406 also may be formed from a flexible material to allow the structure to adapt to a
   particular individual's face.
30          Outriggers may comprise a portion that enables a user (or carer) to more easily pull or tear
   off the outriggers 106 from a user's skin or from dermal patches. Such tabs may improve the ease
   of application/removal of an interface from a user.
            The housing 404 may incorporate ribbing, which is illustrated in Figures 12 and 13,
   between a front face of the outriggers 406 and the portion of the housing 404 that connects with
35 the prong 402 and the interface tube 401.        The ribbing increases the interface contact surface

                                                      - 47
   available for medical taping to adhere when fastening the interface 400 to a user. The ribbing may
   also increase the torsional stiffness of the outriggers, which helps stabilize the prong 402 position.
            The prongs 402, the backing 403 and the outriggers 406 preferably are fabricated from a
   suitable polymer. Preferably, the individual cannula (e.g., the prong 402 and the tube 401) are
 5 fabricated by over moulding the prong 402 about the exterior of the tube 401. The over moulding
   process generally involves inserting a terminal end of the pre-formed tube 401 into a suitable
   mould and restraining the tube 401 while the material used to fabricate the prong is injected into
   the mould about the tube exterior. Advantageously, both of the prongs 402, the backing 403 and
   the outriggers 406 are fabricated in a single over moulding process to form a complete integrated
 9 interface.
            Configuration or design of the prongs may take various forms.                In one preferred
   embodiment, the prongs and/or cannula that are over-moulded with the delivery tube may be as
   described in US Patent Publication No. 2010/0192957, which is hereby incorporated by reference
   in its entirety.
 5 Prongs
            The geometry of another preferred form of nasal prong is illustrated schematically in
   Figures 25A to 25D, in combination with a common base support and facial support pads in
   Figures 26A to 26D and in close up in Figure 27A and 27B. The numerated features of the prongs
   illustrated in these features are identified with similar numerals (but prefixed to differentiate the
 9 particular embodiments) as the same features present in the previous Figures (Figures 6 to 13).
            The geometry of the prongs 1402 in Figures 25A to 25D is illustrated with swept lines
   1420, that represent the prong trajectory, and ellipses 1130 to 1135, that represent the shape and
   orientation of the lumen within each prong at a particular trajectory. Each prong 1402 follows a
   swept path that is shaped to follow the anatomical geometry/curvature/contours of a user's nare.
25 The prongs are moulded or formed to follow the anatomical shape and curvature of a user's nare.
   Advantageously the prongs may maximize clearance between the prong and the internal structure
   of the nostril by anatomically matching the nostril path.
            In one preferred form the prongs are premoulded or preformed according to the
   anatomical shape of a nare, in contrast to prongs which are of a material that is conformable to the
30 anatomical shape of a nare.
            The geometry of the illustrated prongs is described below with respect to how the interface
   is held on a user's face when in use. The interface is arranged so that the prongs 1402 are arranged
   generally symmetrical about the sagittal plane of a user. Each prong extends from a base 1415
   disposed on a common support that extends along a user's upper lip. The prongs 1402 are spaced
35 apart on the support to avoid the user's septum. The spacing between the prongs 1402 at the base

                                                     - 48
    1415 is selected to present the greatest clearance between the prong and the user's septum (at the
   base of the nose) for the range of facial sizes that each interface accommodates (i.e. for a particular
   interface size).
            The initial phase of each prong trajectory 1420 prior to the base 1415 is represented by the
 5 ellipses 1130 and 1131 (the first phase). During this phase the prongs extend substantially coaxial
   with the respective breathing tubes. Both trajectories 1420 sweep a path that generally extends
   along the user's upper lip, toward the septum from either side of the sagittal plane. The prongs
   1402 sweep through a slight rearward or posterior curve (toward the user's coronal plane) with
   respect to the user's upper lip, as illustrated by the rotation of the lumen (represented by the
 9 changing orientation of the ellipses 1130, 1131 and 1132). The internal flow path defined by the
   shape of the lumen remains generally circular during this phase.
            From the base 1415 each prong 1402 sweeps upwardly or superiorly toward the crown of
   the user's head (away from the transverse plane) and rearwardly or posteriorly (toward the user's
   coronal plane) with respect to the user's upper lip. Between the ellipses 1131 and 1133 (the second
 5 phase) the lumen of the prongs smoothly transitions from a generally mediolateral orientation
   along the user's upper lip to a predominantly inclined posterior orientation directing gas flow
   toward an upper portion of the back of a user's head. The lumen of the prong reduces slightly
   during this phase, becoming more elliptical to take advantage of the space available within the
   nostril.
 9          In the third phase (between the ellipses 1133 and 1134) the prongs continue along an
   inclined posterior trajectory toward the upper back of a user's head (away from the transverse
   plane and toward the coronal plane), with a smooth reduction in the rate of incline (the superior
   component of the prongs trajectory 1420 causing the lumen to move away from the transverse
   plane).    During this phase the prongs 1402 have negligible convergence (or mediolateral
25 component) toward the sagittal plane.        The prong lumen reduces further during this phase,
   becoming increasingly elliptical.
            In the final phase (between the ellipses 1134 and 1135) the prongs 1402 continue along an
   inclined posterior trajectory with some mediolateral convergence toward to sagittal plane. The
   mediolateral convergence of the prongs 1402 begins at the illustrated trajectory inflection point at
30 the start of the fourth phase (or slightly prior) adjacent the ellipse 1134.      There is a second
   inflection point adjacent the final ellipse 1135 that reduces convergence of the prongs and
   orientates the prong outlet 1411 posteriorly (toward the coronal plane) with a slight mediolateral
   component toward the sagittal plane (represented by the orientation of the final ellipse 1135 in
   Figure 25B).

                                                     - 49
            The incline rate of the prong trajectories 1420 continues to decrease during the fourth
   phase, until the respective trajectories 1420 are substantially parallel with the transverse plane at the
   prong outlet 1411       (represented by ellipse 1135).       The mediolateral and superior-inferior
   adjustments of the prong trajectories 1420 adjacent the final ellipse 1135 position the prong outlet
 5 1411 generally in alignment with the passage of the upper airway to reduce soft tissue irritation
   caused by the exiting breathing gases. The prong lumen is elliptical at the outlet 1411, with the
   major elliptical axis arranged in a generally transverse plan. The outlet 1411 directs breathing gases
   upwardly or superiorly toward the crown of the user's head (away from the transverse plane) and
   rearwardly or posteriorly (toward the user's coronal plane).
 D          The shape of the prongs 1402 illustrated in Figure 13, 14 and 25 to 27 (both the trajectory
   and lumen) avoid contact with the septum area of a user, thereby reducing the risk of injury to the
   tissue in this area. The prongs improve user comfort and treatment efficacy by aligning the prong
   outlet with the user's upper airways. The shape of the lumen maximizes the cross sectional area of
   the prong along its length, taking advantage of the anatomically available space in a patient's nare
 5 to minimize flow resistance. The prong lumen has a shape that avoids sealing in the user's nare.
            An independent source of gases can be provided to each prong. In this manner, where a
   pair of prongs is used, one prong may supply breathing gas, while the other prong may provide
   medicament gases, such as those gases used to improve respiratory therapy or respiratory of a user.
            Such anatomical prongs may have a shaped trajectory that fits the anatomical shape of the
 D user's nostril.   In a first portion (or phase) of such a prong, the trajectory moves horizontally
   towards the midline of the face. In a second portion (or phase) of the prong, the trajectory curves
   upwards directly into the nostril towards the crown of the head. In a third potion (or phase) of the
   prong, the trajectory rolls backwards into the head following the anatomical curvature of the
   nostril. And, in a fourth portion (or phase), the trajectory tilts horizontally towards the centre of
25 the cannula to align the flow outlet with the user's upper airway.
            Such anatomically shaped prongs have cross-sections that vary along the central trajectory.
   For example, the cross-sections are generally circular at the base of the trajectory and become
   generally elliptical towards the end of the trajectory or prong. Further, the cross-sectional diameter
   generally decreases along the trajectory from the first portion (or phase) to the end of the fourth
30 portion (or phase).
            The prongs are preferably fabricated from a soft compliant material to further reduce
   trauma to soft tissue in the nare.        One example of a potential material is a biocompatible
   thermoplastic elastomer or liquid silicon rubber (LSR).
            A nasal interface 1400 incorporating the prongs 1402 is illustrated in Figures 26A to 26D,
35 27A and 27B.       The interface comprises the nasal prongs 1402, a common support that extends

                                                    - 50
   along a user's upper lip beneath the nose and supports the prongs 1402, a pair of outriggers or
   facial pads 1406 and integral tubing 1401, all spaced generally symmetrically about the sagittal
   plane. The interface is formed as an integral or unitary component with the tubing 1401 linking
   directly to the base 1415 of the prongs 1402. The open distal end of each integrated tube 1401 is
 5 configured to receive a suitable breathing tube (such as tube 100). The breathing tube may be
   adhered or otherwise fixed to the interface tubing 1401. The facial pads 1406 are anatomically
   shaped with a distribution and scale of curvature that reflects the facial geometry of the intended
   user. The anatomical shape of the facial pads 1406 gives the interface a positive engagement with a
   user's face at a predetermined position where the contour of the facial pads 1406 matches the
 D user's facial contour. The pre-shaped facial pads 1406 compliment the anatomical nasal prongs
   1402 by improving the accuracy and speed with which the prongs 1402 can be placed and retained
   within a user's nares.
            Pre-shaping or contouring the facial pads 1406 to the user's facial features reduces the
   pressure applied to the user's face by any retention mechanism (adhesive tape, headgear or other
 5 means). This reduces the likelihood of pressure sores. The positive engagement promoted by the
   anatomical shape of the facial pads 1406 increases the stability of the interface 1400 and the prong
   1402 and therefore improves comfort and efficacy of the treatment being administered.
            In a further embodiment, there is provided a nasal cannula arrangement 2000 comprising at
   least one nasal prong 2001, the or each prong 2001 having a gas outlet 2002 adapted to be inserted
 D into a user's nare (or nares) and a gas inlet 2003 fluidly connected to the gas outlet 2001. The at
   least one nasal prong 2001 comprises a backing 2004, the backing 2004 configured to rest on a
   user's face, and where a lip 2005 extends about at least a part of the perimeter of a rear surface
   2006 of the backing 2004. The rear surface 2004 is configured for receiving or retaining a user
   interface patch 2007.     In use, the user interface patch 2007 may be releasably attachable or
25 connectable to, or with, a dermal patch 2008 that is or can be affixed to a user's face.
   Lips
            The lip 2005 may generally perform as a barrier, which may provide for a seal, such as for
   example a fluid-tight seal. However, it will be appreciated the provision of the lip 2005 as a physical
   barrier, and not necessarily in a fluid-tight seal, may itself be sufficient to prevent a majority of
30 fluids (such as nasal or oral mucus, or breast-milk or fluids used to wash the user's face) from
   seeping under the backing 2004 to the rear surface 2006.
            Advantageously, the lip 2005 operates to prevent a majority of fluids from seeping under
   the backing 2004 to the rear surface 2006.      Such seepage may otherwise impair the adhesion or
   connection between the user interface patch 2007 and a user's face or a dermal patch 2008 that is
35 applied to a user's face. Such a series of patches providing a securement system for positioning of

                                                    - 51
   the cannula relative to the user's nares, or for facilitating the positioning of the nasal cannula in a
   preferred position or location. Such fluid seepage may alternatively become clogged in the user
   interface patch 2007 or interface facing surface of the dermal patch; such patch surfaces then may
   become odorous or generally slimy or unhealthy.         Such impairment should preferably be avoid
 5 where possible, being unpleasant for users or their carers or perhaps even impacting on the ability
   for such a nasal cannula to otherwise remain in a preferred position. The provision of such a lip
   2005 about the rear surface 2006 of the backing 2004 attempts to minimize one or more of such
   detrimental impacts.
           According to this embodiment, the lip 2005 may be deformable. For example, the lip 2005
 9 may be shaped such that a portion of the lip coming into contact with a user's face or a dermal
   patch 2008 is able to bend or flex. In this manner, when a pressure is applied to the lip 2005, such
   as by the force of engagement between the user interface patch 2007 and a dermal patch 2008, the
   lip 2008 can be allowed deform to more effectively conform to the shape to which it is contacting,
   improving the likelihood of a more effective seal or barrier to fluids.
 5          Such a lip 2005 may extend at least about the perimeter (or a part of the perimeter) of the
   backing 2004, for example about a region that is substantially adjacent to an associated prong. For
   example, a majority of fluids to which the lip 2005 is configured to keep out from the rear of the
   backing are generated in the nasal or oral region of the user. That is, nasal mucus exiting the
   nare(s) of the user's nose, or oral mucus exiting a user's mouth which may dribble back toward the
 9 cannula's backing (depending on the positioning of the user's head), or even breast-milk leakage
   from an infant's mouth during breast feeding that then dribbles in to the region around the nasal
   cannula arrangement 2000. Further, bathing of an infant or user's face may generate fluids that
   dribble to the region about or around the cannula 2000.
            All of these fluids (and others not necessarily mentioned above) may impact on the
25 effectiveness of a securement patch system used for securing or positioning of the cannula on a
   user's face. Further, the negative impact generated by odours or mucus (or slime) clogging of the
   securement system patches is undesirable.
            Accordingly, in one embodiment, a priority is to provide a lip 2005 about at least the region
   of the rear surface 2006 of the backing 2004 that extends from near or adjacent to the prong 2001
30 or nare of the user, to a region laterally away therefrom. In such an instance, the lip 2005 may not
   extend wholly about the perimeter of the backing.
            In other embodiments, the lip may be formed from a series of smaller or segmented lip
   portions that may or may not adjoin one another to help form a barrier or seal. For example, as
   shown in figure 35, a series of segmented lips may be provided that together extend partially, or
35 wholly, about the perimeter of the rear surface 2006 of the backing 2004. The lip 2005 may be

                                                     - 52
   created or formed by a series of one or more separate lips, such as those shown by figure 35.
   Further, such segmented lip potions may be adjacent to one another, adjoining one another or
   even overlapping of one another in forming the lip 2005.
             In this manner, together the lips may form a barrier or seal to intrusion by fluids.
 5           However, it will be appreciated the lip 2005 could be provided to extend wholly about the
   perimeter of the backing. In such a case, the lip 2005 would be an endless lip.
            The lip or lips may be formed (or treated to be) of a hydrophobic character or attributes,
   thereby further helping to reduce liquids from passing the lip barrier.
             The lip potion in contact with a user's skin may be of a spoon shape. For example, the lip
 D may have a profile effectively providing for a pair of parallel spaced apart lips, an outer perimeter
   lip and an inner perimeter lip of the lip as a whole. In this way, a set of lips each contact the skin
   of the user, helping to provide a more effective barrier or seal to liquids. It will also be appreciated
   that a series of parallel lips may be utilised.
            As described previously, the backing 2004 may take the form of a substantially planar or
 5 flat or even contoured (such as a pre-formed curve as shown by figures 28-34) backing that is
   configured to rest on a user's face. The backing 2004 may generally extend laterally outward from
   the at least one nasal prong 2001, away from the septum of a user. Such a backing 2004 can assist
   in operating as a stabilizer of the prong(s) 2001 in the nare(s) of a user. In this respect, such a
   backing 2004 may comprise of the various rib features as described in other embodiments.
 D           It will also be appreciated the nasal cannula 2000 of this embodiment can have a pair of
   prongs 2001 for inserting into the nares of a user, each prong 2001 having an adjacent or
   associated backing 2004. Where a pair of prongs 2001 is provided, the prongs may be independent
   of each other, or may utilize a harness to structurally join the prongs together for additional
   stability, as previously described in other embodiments.
25          The cannula 2000 of this embodiment may additionally comprise the various features of
   fluidly connected (or integrally formed) tubing 100, 200, 400, 1100 as described herein, and/or may
   utilize the securement system 500, 600 of user interface patches and dermal patches as described
   herein, and/or may allow for the gas inlet to be fluidly connected to the reinforce medical tubing
   100, 200, as described herein. Further, it will be appreciated the prongs 2001 may be any of those
30 prong shapes or configurations as previously described herein, including the anatomically shaped
   prongs referred to by figures 25A-27B.
             One embodiment of the nasal cannula 2000 is as shown by figures 28-34.
             Figures 28 and 29 show a cannula arrangement 2000 with backing 2004 in connection with
   a dermal patch 2008 affixed to a user's face. The lip 2005 is shown in contact with the dermal
35 patch 2008, thereby providing a barrier to fluids that may otherwise leak to the underside of

                                                      - 53
   backing 2004 and the rear surface 2006 to which a user interface patch 2007 is retained. As shown,
   the user interface patch 2007 is located in-board of lip 2005.
             Figures 30-34 show a nasal cannula 2000 in more detail.
            As shown by figures 31 and 34, the rear surface 2006 can be initially provided without a
 5 user interface patch, i.e. the surface 2006 is configured to receive or retain a user interface patch
   2007. Such a user interface patch 2007 may be connected to the rear surface 2006 by an adhesive
   or other suitable connection. Once the patch is then in position, it is ready to be connected to or
   receive a dermal patch.
             In one form, the user interface patch may be one part of a two-part connection system, for
 D example the loops of a hook and loop system. In such an instance, the interface facing surface of a
   dermal patch 2008 would comprise of hooks that are engageable with the loops of the user
   interface patch. See figure 32 illustrating rear surface 2006 retaining a user interface patch with
   loops ready for connection to the hooks of a dermal patch.
             Figure 33 shows a section through a cannula 2000 with the hooks 2009 of a dermal patch
 5 engaged with the loops 2010 of a user interface patch. Also shown is lumen 2011 or gas passage
   pathway for gas being supplied to the gas inlet of the cannula for delivery to the gas outlet 2002 of
   prongs 2001.
   Securement System
            A securement system for securing a user interface and/or user interface tubing to a patient
 D is illustrated in Figures 15 to 17. The securement system 500 is illustrated supporting a nasal
   cannula on an infant's face.
             Beneficially, the system provides for a generally more rapid and improved or simplified ease
   of installation of a user interface into an operational position on a user. Further, these benefits may
   also contribute to improved or simplified ease of application of alternative user interfaces or
25 removal of a user interface from a user when cycling a user between different therapies (such as gas
   treatments, e.g. CPAP or high-flow applications).
             Certain user interfaces may be provided specifically for interaction or accommodation with
   the system of the described embodiments.           Alternatively, non-modified user interfaces can be
   accommodated by the described embodiments and can also be positioned relatively easily and with
30 a minimum of time involved in an installation procedure.
             In various embodiments provided by the securement system, such a system may provide
   for quick location of an interface to a user, and may provide for the secured positioning of the
   interface.
             The ease with which a user interface may be positioned for a user is particularly useful.
35 Providing a system whereby a carer (e.g. nurse) is able to apply the securement system with a single

                                                     -54
   hand or single handedly, particularly where the interface user is an infant, is particularly
   advantageous.
            In addition, in another embodiment, the securement system provides for a first level of
   securement of a user interface to a user. For example, such a first level of securement may be that
 5 as shown by figures 15 to 17. Where a user requires additional or heightened security of user
   interface positioning or securement, a secondary level of interface securement can be utilized.
   Such an additional level may include application of an over patch, such as that provided, for
   example, by patch 660. Such a patch 660 may be an adhesive patch and can be installed over the
   top of the user interface and/or tubing and adhered to a portion of the dermal patch 550.
 9          The securement system 500 comprises a two-part releasable attachment or connection
   arrangement 551. The releasable connection arrangement 551 acts between a pair of patches that
   are affixed to the patient and the user interface respectively.
            The first patch is a dermal patch 550 that is adhered or otherwise attached to the patient's
   skin. The dermal patch has a user side that faces the user's skin and an interface side that faces the
 5 user interface. The user side of the dermal patch 550 may be attached to the skin of a user by a
   dermatologically sensitive adhesive, such as a hydrocolloid. The user interface side of the dermal
   patch is provided with the first part 553 of the two-part releasable attachment or connection
   system 551.
            The second patch is a user interface patch 552. The user interface patch 552 also has a
 9 patient side and an interface side. The patient side of the user interface patch 552 is disposed
   adjacent the dermal patch when the system 500 is engaged. The complimentary second part of the
   two-part releasable attachment or connection system 553 is affixed to the patient side of the user
   interface patch 552, so that the respective parts of the two-part releasable attachment or
   connection system 551 are easily engagable when the patches 550, 552 are brought together. The
25 interface side of the user interface patch 552 is affixed to the user interface. The user interface
   patch may be integrated with or suitably adhered to the user interface.
            A part or corner of the user interface patch 552 may include a region that does not attach
   to the dermal patch 550. The general purpose of this is to allow a region (or tab) that can be more
   easily gripped by a user or carer for removing or detaching the interface from the dermal patch.
30 For example, the backing 2004 may also comprise of such a corner region.
            The two-part releasable attachment or connection arrangement 551 may comprise a hook
   and loop material (such as Velcro TM), a magnet or an array of magnets disposed on the respective
   patches with the poles suitably arranged, an adhesive arrangement that is activated when the
   patches are urged together or another suitable releasable suitable coupling. The interface side of
35 the dermal patch 550 may have one of a hook or a loop material, and the patient side of the user

                                                     - 55
   interface patch 552 may have the other of the hook or loop material, such that the dermal and user
   interface patches are releasably attachable or connectable to each other.
            When we refer to a hook and loop material, we mean any one of a wide variety of area type
   mechanical fasteners. For example, the VelcroTM product range includes hook and loop product
 5 where the hook component includes upstanding nylon hooks (formed as cut loops through a
   woven backing web) which engage with any complimentary loop pile material. The VelcroTM
   range also includes extruded hook products, typically of a smaller size and which mate with
   "fluffy" non-woven fiber backing materials.       These hook materials are designed to work with a
   range of loop substrates and in some cases, these hook materials act as loop substrates as well.
 9 Other similar systems include the Dual-LockTM recloseable fastener system from 3M of St Paul,
   Minnesota USA. The common feature of these releasable fastening systems is that they engage at
   any part of the contact between the two parts of the system.         Precise alignment of individual
   connectors is not required because a multitude of connectors are distributed across the area of the
   product. A wide range of releasable fastener systems within this field may be used in the releasable
 5 attachment system for providing releasable attachment between the dermal patch and the user
   interface.
            The first part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system may be adhered
   to the user interface side of the dermal patch with a suitable adhesive and occupy up to 100% or
   less than about 90%, or about 85%, or about 75%, or about 60% or about 50% or about 40% or
 9 about 30% or about 20% or about 10% of the interface side surface area of the dermal patch.
           According to some embodiments, the dermal patch 550 is a generally planar pad having a
   thickness much less than both its width and its length. In some embodiments, the pad has an
   overall oval shape, but may take other shapes.
           The pad includes a first part 553 of the two-part releasable attachment system 551.       In
25 some embodiments, the construction of the dermal patch is such that the first part 553 of the
   releasable attachment system comprises a substrate and multitude of fastener elements (with
   effective hooks, effective loops or other elements) provided across the area of the substrate. The
   substrate is secured to the body of the dermal patch. In some embodiments, the substrate is
   secured by adhesive or by direct bonding during forming of the dermal patch.
30          In some embodiments, the substrate is smaller in area than the dermal patch and is located
   on the dermal patch so that it does not reach any edge of the dermal patch. In this way, the edge
   of the substrate is spread from the edge of the dermal patch all around the perimeter of the
   substrate.
   Patches

                                                    - 56
            In some embodiments, the substrate for the first part of the two-part releasable attachment
   system is flexible such that the plane of the substrate may bend to follow a surface that is curved in
   one direction. However, the substrate is typically not also stretchable to be able to follow a surface
   curved in two orthogonal directions. However, the pad is of the dermal patch may be stretchable
 5 and conformable to surfaces curved in more than one direction such as may be required to
   conform to the contours of the location of placement on the patient.
           According to some embodiments, this difficulty is alleviated by providing a first part 553 of
   the two-part releasable attachment in a form wherein the portion of substrate is divided by at least
   one slit or at least one slot into regions such that that different parts of the substrate portion may
 9 bend independently and thus the overall form of the substrate portion may deform to substantially
   match a surface curved in two directions. This will be the case even though the substrate portion is
   only curved in one direction at any individual location on the substrate portion.
            Examples of such forms are illustrated in Figures 36B to 36R. The outline of the pad of
   the dermal patch is illustrated in Figure 36A. This configuration is particularly useful for the type
 5 of shapes where compound curves are most problematic, which is shapes where two or more
   bends in the substrate are more likely to intersect. Typically, these shapes which are fat, dumpy,
   stout, short and fat or short and stout, rather than elongate. For example, shapes of this type will
   have a short perimeter relative to the area. If they have concaves or hollows in the perimeter, then
   considering a virtual perimeter that is the shortest enclosing path outside the shape, the shapes will
 9 exhibit a small ratio of the square of the length of this virtual perimeter to the area of the shape.
   For example, the lowest ratio is exhibited by a circle at approximately 12.6:1, a square has a ratio of
   approximately 16:1, a two-by-one rectangle has a ratio 18:1. Whereas more elongated shapes have
   higher ratios, for example a five-by-one rectangle has a ratio of the square of the length of the
   perimeter to the area of 29:1. In some embodiments, the improvements that will be described with
25 reference to Figures 36B to 36R are advantageously used for patch shapes having a ratio of the
   length square of the shortest enclosing perimeter to the area inside the perimeter of less than 25.
   In other embodiments, the improvements that will be described with reference to Figures 36B to
   36R are advantageously used for releasable attachment substrate portions having a ratio of the
   length of the square of the shortest enclosing perimeter to the coverage area of the substrate less
30 than 25.
           The substrate may be formed as multiple disconnected parts as in the variation of Figure
   36A-36R, however the preferred form is for the substrate to be a single continuous part.
            In some embodiments, the releasable attachment substrate portion covers substantially all
   of the area of the dermal patch 550. In other embodiments, the substrate portion covers most of

                                                        - 57
   the area of the dermal patch, for example, 50% or more of the area, 60% or more of the area, 70%
   or more of the area, or 80% or more of the area of the dermal patch.
             Referring to Figure 36A, in some embodiments, the dermal patch 550 includes a general
   elliptical or oval body 3602 with a small lateral extension 3600 at one end.               In preferred
 5 embodiments, this shape has no sharp corners. Rounded or radiused corners or curved edges are
   less readily lifted inadvertently than sharp corners are. In many of the example embodiments of
   fastener substrate, the fastener substrate includes an overall shape generally matching the overall
   shape of the dermal patch 550, including extending into the extended portion 3600.
             In the illustrated embodiments of Figures 36B, 36F, 36G and 36H, the substrate portion
 9 does not extend entirely to the edges of the dermal patch 550. Around at least part of the edge, a
   narrow zone remains between the edge of the dermal patch and the edge of the substrate. This
   narrow zone may extend around the full perimeter of the substrate. In some embodiments, such as
   the embodiment of 36B, this zone between the edge of the dermal patch 550 and the edge of the
   substrate may be broader at some locations than at other locations. For example, in Figure 36B, a
 5 broader zone 3615 is provided at the end intended to be placed further from the nose. This
   provides for retention of the attachments in the zone nearer the nose, but allows the user to initiate
   peeling for release of the releasable fastener at the zone further from the nose.             A similar
   arrangement of substrate size and location on the dermal patch could be provided for the other
   examples of Figures 36C to 36R. For example, in each case, the example configuration could be
 9 constructed to a smaller area of the dermal patch and located closer to the nasal end of the dermal
   patch.
             The other illustrated embodiments may also be sized to not extend to the edges of the
   dermal patch.       Generally, in the embodiments of Figures 36B to 36R, the substrate portion
   comprises a squat overall shape, which occupies a high percentage of the area within a stretched
25 perimeter (the shortest path enclosing the shape). Generally, the substrate portion is formed as
   one body, but might be formed of a small number of bodies (for example two bodies) closely
   interleaved, such as in Figure 36R. Within this body, the substrate is divided into multiple portions
   and/or into elongate shapes by at least one slot of slit such that adjacent parts (or sub portions) of
   the substrate portion are opposed a cross the slit, slot or gap. Depending on the arrangements of
30 slot, slit, gap (or slots, slits or gaps) the substrate may allow the underlying dermal patch to stretch
   in one or more directions in addition to curving or forming a compound curve. Referring then to
   the different substrate shapes and configurations, some of the salient features and characteristics
   will be described.
             In each case, certain aspects of the embodiment are described. Many variations may be
35 constructed using these aspects. The aspects of one embodiment may be readily combined with

                                                           -58
   aspects of other embodiments.             The arrangements of slits or slots may be oriented in other
   directions, or may be mirrored or reversed.
             The substrate 3603 of Figure 36B is essentially serpentine.          The substrate has an end
   adjacent the first end 3304 of the dermal patch and a second end adjacent or toward the second
 5 end 3305 of the dermal patch. The substrate is formed in a series of switch back loops divided by
   slits 3306. The slits 3306 may be angled perpendicular to a line between ends 3304 and 3305 or at
   some other angle. For example, the slots 3306 may be angled such that the upper end of each slit
   is closer to the first end 3304 than the lower end of each slit, or vice versa that the lower end of
   each slit is closer to the first end 3304 than the upper end of each slit. There may be at least three
 D slits, at least four slits, or at least five slits. The serpentine shape may provide a shortest uncut path
   between the first end of the substrate portion and the second end of the substrate portion that is at
   least twice the actual linear distance between these locations.
             The series of slits in the serpentine shape provide alternating portions of the serpentine
   path, which may bend in different directions to allow the substrate to substantially conform to an
 5 underlying compound curve surface.                 For example, the loop back portions 3307 may bend
   independently of the straight portions 3308 and the outer surface of the pad of the dermal patch
   may be allowed to bend to be convex in two orthogonal directions.
             The serpentine shape of the substrate 3603 includes curved or radiused corners.             The
   curved or radiused corners are less readily lifted, for example, by inadvertent contact, than sharp
 D corners. Similar modifications may be made to any of the embodiments illustrated in Figures 36B
   to 36R.
             The substrate portion of Figure 36C is broadly similar to the substrate portion of Figure
   36B. This substrate portion 3309 is pictured entirely covering the dermal patch. One end fills the
   first end 3304 of the dermal patch while the other end reaches to the other end 3305 of the dermal
25 patch. A series of alternating slits 3310 reaching from alternating edges of the substrate portion to
   leave a serpentine body extending between the ends 3304 and 3305.                  The substrate portion
   illustrated in Figure 36C exhibits essentially the same flexing characteristics as the substrate portion
   of Figure 36B.
             The substrate portion of Figure 36D shares essentially the same construction with the
30 substrate portion in Figure 36C except that the substrate portion 3311 in Figure 36D includes slits
   3312 which are further from the nasal end 3304 at the upper ends than the lower ends, whereas the
   slits 3310 of the substrate portion in Figure 36C are closer to the nasal end 3304 at their upper ends
   than at their lower ends.
             Other similar serpentine shapes are provided by substrate portion 3313 in Figure 36G and
35 substrate portion 3318 in Figure 36H. In each of these cases, narrow slots are provided to separate

                                                    - 59
   the substrate portion into a series of adjacent islands 3321 and 3322 respectively along the length
   of the substrate portion. The slots 3318, 3319 are wider than slits of the previously described
   embodiments. A series of narrow bridges 3323 and 3324 respectively join between the islands
   3321 and 3322 such that the patch forms a continuous serpentine structure. The continuous
 5 serpentine structure or the single piece structure improves the ease with which the substrate
   portion may be located on the dermal patch.
            In the embodiment of Figure 36G, the slots 3319 are oriented substantially orthogonal to a
   line between ends 3304 and 3305 of the dermal patch. In Figure 36H, the slots 3320 are oriented
   with their upper ends closer to the nasal end 3304 than their lower ends - similar to Figure 36C. In
 D these embodiments, the width of each bridge 3323, 3324 is much smaller than the length of the
   slots. For example, on average, the width of the bridge portion may be less than 0.2, or less than
   0.1 of the average length of the slots.
            Other serpentine embodiments will be described below with reference to Figures 36M,
   360 and 36E.
 5          Another arrangement of substrate including a series of islands connected by bridges is
   illustrated in Figure 36F. In this embodiment, the substrate portion 3325 includes islands 3326 and
   slots 3327. Bridges 3328 connect between the islands. In the illustrated form, the bridges of
   Figure 36F are located along the centerline between ends 3304 and 3305. This arrangement might
   be described as having a central member with a series of leaf portions extending from both sides of
 D the member. In the illustrated embodiment, the slots 3327 extend inward equal distance from each
   edge. The slots are oriented substantially perpendicular to the line between ends 3304 and 3305.
   The slots 3327 extend inward from the edge in alignment on opposite sides of the axis.
   Alternatively, they could be staggered. As with Figures 36H and 36B to 36D, the slots 3327 could
   be oriented at a non-orthogonal angle to the line between ends 3304 and 3305.
25          In the arrangements of Figures 36B, 36C, 36D, and 36F to 36H, the slots or slits are
   oriented substantially parallel to each other. In the arrangement of Figure 36E, a series of slits
   3329 and 3330 extend in from opposite sides of the substrate portion. In this embodiment, a first
   group of slits 3329 are oriented in a non-parallel angle with respect to a second group of slits 3330.
   In particular, in the illustrated embodiment, slits 3329 have their upper end further from the end
30 3304 of the dermal patch than their lower end, while slots 3330 have their upper end closer to end
   3304 than their lower end. In some embodiments, the slits 3329 and 3330 pass the centerline of
   the substrate portion (the centerline extending from end 3304 to 3305) such that there is no
   straight linear path between ends 3304 and 3305 that is uncut by a slit 3329 or 3330. The slits 3329
   and 3330 form a herring bone pattern.

                                                    - 60
            The embodiments described with reference to Figures 36B to 36H have been essentially
   regular patterns.     Figure 361 illustrates an embodiment with a less regular pattern.        In this
   embodiment, the substrate portion 3331 covers substantially the entire surface of the dermal patch
   and is divided by an irregular arrangement of slit or slits. For example, slit 3333 extends from one
 5 edge adjacent end 3304 in approximately an S shape creating a series of interleaved fingers from
   either side of the substrate portion 3331. A second slit 3333 extends from an edge of the substrate
   adjacent end 3305 of the dermal patch. The form of this slit includes a corner or a dog leg and
   divides at an intersection 3334 into a cross slit 3335. Slits 3332 and 3333 divide the area of the
   substrate portion 3331 into regions or zones of approximately equal width, with interleaved fingers
 D and long joining portions. In this embodiment, the slits are largely internal to the substrate portion
   3331 and only connect to edges of the substrate portion 3331 at two locations.
            Similar arrangements of interleaved fingers are apparent in the substrate portion 3336 of
   Figure 36J and the substrate portion 3337 of Figure 36R. In the substrate portion 3336 of Figure
   35J, a single narrow slot 3337 having a small width extends from an edge of the substrate adjacent
 5 end 305 in a tortuous path along the length of the substrate portion to end adjacent edge 3304. In
   this embodiment, the single slot 3337 meets the edge of substrate 3336 at only one location. The
   slot 3337 divides the substrate portion 3336 into two major portions, each of which includes a
   series of fingers 3338 and 3339 respectively. The fingers 3339 and 3338 interleave. The location of
   the slot 3337 and the orientation of long legs 3340 between loop back portions 3341 provides the
 D fingers 3339 and 3338 oriented along a direction that is transverse but at an angle to a line between
   ends 3304 and 3305.
            In an alternative embodiment as illustrated in Figure 36R, a single serpentine slot 3342
   extends from an upper edge of the substrate portion 3337 to a lower edge of the substrate portion
   3337. The slot 3342 extends on a serpentine path including straight portions 3343 and loop back
25 ends 3344. This divides the substrate portion 3337 into two laterally separated portions, each of
   which includes at least one elongate finger 3345. The fingers of one portion are interleaved with
   the finger or fingers of the other portion. In this embodiment, the interleaved fingers are oriented
   substantially parallel with a line extending between ends 3304 and 3305.
            Another embodiment including a single slot or slit is illustrated in Figure 36K. In this
30 embodiment, single slit 3346 extends from an edge location adjacent end 3305 in a generally spiral
   configuration to end at location approximately centered within the substrate portion 3347. The
   spiral slit3 346 divides the substrate portion 3347 into a single continuous spiral of substrate
   material.   In some embodiments, multiple spirals slits could commence at difference locations
   around the perimeter of the substrate portion 3347 dividing the substrate portion into multiple
35 interleaved spirals of substrate material.

                                                    - 61
           The embodiment of Figure 36Q includes substantially continuously curved slits compared
   with the embodiments of Figures 36B to 36J and 36R which use predominately straight slits, albeit
   in some cases with curved portions.         Figures 36K to 36P illustrate other substrate portion
   embodiments with curved slits.
 5         In the embodiments of Figures 36K and 36L, the substrate portion 3348 and 3349
   respectively are each divided by a plurality of curved slits 3350 arranged, in each case, essentially on
   the loci of a series of concentric circles. Some of the slits 3350 reach from edges of the substrate
   portions 3348 and 3349.
           Other slots 3351 commence and end within the body of the substrate portion 3348 and
 D 3359. For example, in the substrate portion 3348, slits 3351 each describe an arc through greater
   than 3150 but less than 3600, creating circular and ring-shaped portions within the substrate portion
   of 3348 which connect to other portions of the substrate portion 3348 via narrow bridges. Slits
   3351 in substrate portion 3349 operate similarly to create circular and ring-shaped portions
   connected by narrow bridges.
 5         In Figure 36K, the arrangement of slits 3350 and 3351, and in particular the bridges
   between portions thus divided by the slits is such that tortuous paths of continuous uncut material
   are provided between end 3305 and end 3304 of the substrate portion and the centre 3352 of the
   substrate portion.    Whereas in Figure 36L, the arrangement of the curved slits 3350 and the
   substantially circular slits 3351 is such that the bridges are substantially aligned and more direct
 D paths are provided between at least one end 3305 of the substrate portion and the centre 3352 of
   the substrate portion.
           Another series of embodiments is illustrated in Figure 36N to 36P. In this series, the
   substrate portions 3353, 3354, 3355 and 3356 respectively are each divided by a series of narrow
   curved slots, with each slot extending into the body of the substrate portion from either the upper
25 or lower edge of the substrate portion. The series of curved slots in each substrate portion are
   arranged in parallel. In some embodiments, the spacing between the curved slots is substantially
   consistent along the length of the substrate portion. In some embodiments, the slots extend across
   the majority of the width of the substrate portion, but not entirely across the width of the substrate
   portion. For example, it may extend across greater than 70%, greater than 80% or greater than
30 90% of the width of the substrate portion. The slots may have radiused corners at their closed
   end.
           In the arrangement in Figure 36M, the series of slots extend from alternating sides of the
   substrate portion with slots 3357 and 3358 extending from an upper edge of the substrate portion
   and slots 3359 and 3360 extending from a lower edge of the substrate portion. This divides the
35 substrate portion into an essentially tortuous length.       In this embodiment, the curve of each

                                                    - 62
   substrate slot is such that the upper and lower ends of each slot are further away from the end
   3304 than the mid portions are.
           In the embodiment of Figure 36N, all four curved slots 3361 extend from the same edge of
   the substrate portion. This is reminiscent of a comb, with a series of fingers extending in the same
 5 direction form a single back bone. As for the embodiment 36N, in this example, the slots are
   curved such that their upper and lower ends are further from the first end 3304 of the dermal patch
   than their mid-portions are.
           Figure 360 illustrates a further embodiment similar to the embodiment in Figure 36N. In
   Figure 360, the curved slots 3362 and 3363 extend from the lower edge and upper edge
 D respectively of the substrate portion. The series of slots 3362 is interleaved with the series of slots
   3363, leaving a serpentine or convoluted continuous path along the substrate portion.           In the
   embodiment of Figure 360, the upper and lower ends of each curved slot are closer to first end
   3304 than are the mid-portions of each curved slot.
           Another variation is illustrated in Figure 36P. In this embodiment, curved slots 3364 will
 5 extend from the same edge of the substrate portion. They may extend from the upper edge or the
   lower edge. The curved slots 3364 are all essentially arranged in a parallel configuration. The
   curved slots have their upper ends and lower ends closer to the first end 3304 than are their mid
   portions.
           Another embodiment of a user interface and/or tubing securement system is illustrated in
 D Figures 18 to 23. The securement system 600 comprises a dermal patch 650 and a securing patch
   660. The securing patch 660 extends over the user interface and/or tubing and adheres to the
   dermal patch 650 to secure the interface and/or tubing to the patient.
           The dermal patch 650 defines a securement footprint that is attached to the patient and has
   a similar configuration to the corresponding dermal patch 550 in the previous securement
25 embodiment. The user side of the dermal patch 650 is configured to attach or adhere to the user's
   skin.
           The securing patch 660 extends over the user interface and/or associated user interface
   tubing and affixes to the dermal patch 650 to secure the user interface to the patient. The securing
   patch 660 and the dermal patch 650 are configured so that the securing patch can be contained
30 within or bounded by the securement footprint of the dermal patch when the securement system is
   applied to a patient with a suitable or compatible user interface. Containing the securing patch 660
   within the dermal patch 650 securement footprint can reduce the likelihood of unnecessary contact
   with the patient's skin and the potential for irritation. Ideally, the dermal patch 650 has the same
   or a greater surface area than the securing patch 660.

                                                    - 63
            As with the embodiment where the interface includes a two-part releasable attachment to
   the dermal patch, in this embodiment including a securing patch 660, the dermal patch 650 is
   provided with an element of the connection system for releasably connecting with the securing
   patch 660. For example, the dermal patch 650 may include one part of a two-part mechanical
 5 fastener system across its surface or parts of its surface, with the securing patch 660 having the
   other part of the fastening system.
            In this manner, the dermal patch is sized to reduce the likelihood of the taping or any
   additional taping to extend onto the skin of the user. Avoiding or minimizing the application, or
   repeated application and removal, of adhesives to a user's skin is preferred. This embodiment
 9 beneficially reduces the likelihood of repeated application of adhesive, or adhesive tape, to a user's
   skin for the installation and placement of a user interface into an operational position. Adhesive
   tapes or other dermal adhesive patches (when repeatedly applied and remove), particularly for
   infants, create problems. Problems include, but are not limited to, skin irritation from adhesive
   chemicals (or adhesive removal chemicals, such as solvents) or tape materials (e.g. due to skin
 5 sensitivities), damage to user skin due to repeated application and removal of dermal patches or
   tapes for positioning or re-positioning of the interface for the user.       Re-positioning may be
   required or adjustments may be needed where treatment therapies are being cycled (i.e. changed
   from one type of treatment to another, and then back again).          Advantageously therefore, the
   described embodiments provide for a system of positioning or locating of a user interface for a
 9 user, yet reducing the likelihood of the problems associated with adhesive tapes attached to the
   users skin.
            It should be appreciated there are a number of disadvantages and problems associated with
   the re-positioning of an interface, particularly an infant interface. Included is "snub nosing",
   epidermal abrasion, or dermal allergies from traditional taping techniques for application of user
25 interfaces (e.g. nasal cannula) to users. Such problems are also incurred during the cycling of a user
   between different treatment options and, traditionally, the subsequent removal of headgear or tapes
   or user interfaces and then the installation of new equipment and user interfaces or interface
   positioning headgear or other gear. Therefore, provision of a securement system which, when
   applied to a user, is in a ready-to-receive mode for receiving a user interface is a useful step in
30 progressing toward reducing the problems users have previously been faced with.              Further,
   improving the ease of installation, both in terms of complexity as well as time and effort by a carer
   (e.g. nurse), is of further benefit.
            The securement patch may be shaped or otherwise configured to accommodate geometric
   or other features of the user interface and/or associated user interface tubing. The illustrated
35 securement patches have a plurality of wings 661 that accommodate the user interface tubing and

                                                    - 64
   increase the contact surface of the securing patch 660 exposed to the dermal patch 650. The
   securing patches illustrated in Figures 22 and 23 each have a pair of wings arranged at one end of
   the patch. The wings 661 are configured to secure to the dermal patch on either side of a user
   interface and/or associated user interface tubing and reduce the potential for the securing patch
 5 660 to bunch about the interface and/or tubing.
            The securement patch 661 illustrated in Figure 22 also has a tube end wing 661. The tube
   end wing 661 is configured to extend under the user interface tubing and affix to the dermal patch
   650 to link the ends of the securing patch 660.
            Both embodiments of the securing systems can be used to secure tubing to any part of a
 9 patient's body. The embodiments illustrated in Figures 15 to 23 are configured to attach a user
   interface to a patient's face, in particular, adjacent the user's upper lip and/or cheek.        The
   illustrated securing systems are adapted for neonatal applications.
            The user side of the dermal patches 550, 650 preferably have a dermatologically sensitive
   adhesive (such as a hydrocolloid) that adheres the patch to a user's skin, so that application of the
 5 respective securing systems causes as little irritation as possible. The dermal patches 550, 650
   preferably have sufficient surface areas to distribute the adhesive and interface retention forces
   over an adequate area of the user's face to reduce localized pressure build up.
            The illustrated securement systems are particularly configured to receive and/or secure the
   nasal cannula and associated tubing disclosed previously. The tubing may extend from one or both
 9 side(s) of the user's face. Furthermore, the securing systems may be combined, so that the user
   interface is secured to the dermal patches by a two-part releasable attachment or connection
   arrangement and a securing patch arranged over the interface and/or tube.
            Although the present disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments, other
   embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art also are within the scope of this
25 disclosure. Thus, various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the
   spirit and scope of the disclosure.     For instance, various components may be repositioned as
   desired.   Moreover, not all of the features, aspects and advantages are necessarily required to
   practice the present disclosure. Accordingly, the scope of the present disclosure is intended to be
   defined only by the claims that follow.
30          It should be appreciated that the various embodiments as described above and with
   reference to the figures can be used in combination with each other to achieve desired or beneficial
   results. For example the tube as described may be connected or attached to a cannula of this
   invention, or may be used in combination with other cannula not specifically described herein.
   Similarly the cannula of this invention may be used in combination with the securement system of
35 this invention or may be used in combination or interchangeably with other retention systems.

                                                 - 65
  Further, the anatomically shaped prongs of this invention may be implemented in combination the
  tube or interface or securement system as described above or may be used in combination or
  interchangeably with other tubes or interfaces or securement systems. There may be particular
  advantages associated with combining together the various embodiments as described above.
5

                                                     - 66
   Preferred features
   SPI. A corrugated medical tube comprising: a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending
   between open terminal ends of the body, and an internal form enclosed within the lumen and
   supportive of the tubular body, an outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of
 5 alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
   SP2. The tube as claimed in claim SPI, wherein the tubular body is an extruded tube.
   SP3. The tube as claimed in claim SPI or claim SP2, wherein the tubular body is a continuous tube.
   SP4. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP3, wherein the tubular body is a
   continuously extruded tube.
 D SP5. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP4, wherein the crests of the corrugated
   tubular body are defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   SP6. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP5, wherein the troughs of the corrugated
   tubular body are defined by inwardly drawn portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between
   the internal form.
 5 SP7. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPIto SP6, wherein the internal form is a
   continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous lengths or a series of discrete lengths.
   SP8. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP7, wherein the internal form is one or a
   combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound skeleton or a
   helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports interconnected or inter
 D connectable by one or more connecting links.
   SP9. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP8, wherein the internal form is supporting
   of the tubular body defining the lumen within.
   SPIO. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP9, wherein the internal form is a skeleton
   or internal supporting structure, supportive of the tubular body.
25 SPI 1. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP5 to SPI 0, wherein the tubular body is
   substantially unsupported in the troughs from the internal form and supported in the crests by the
   internal form.
   SP12. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP5 to SPI 1, wherein the wall of the tubular body
   is suspended between adjacent crests.
30 SP13. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP5 to SP12, wherein the tubular body is
   (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic polymers, preferably polymers suitable
   for medical breathing tubes.
   SP14. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP13, wherein the tubular body is a
   breathable tube, or is formed of or from a breathable material, such as breathable thermoplastic
35 polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.

                                                    - 67
   SP15. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP14 wherein the internal form is a helically
   wound rib, or ribbing element.
   SP16. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP15, wherein the internal form is a helically
   wound element having a pitch between adjacent turns of about 0.4mm to about 2mm, or about 0.5
 5 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about 1.7, or about 0.8 to about 1.6, or
   about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm to about 1.3mm.
   SP17. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP16, wherein the internal form has an
   outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to
   about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2
 D to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about
   2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or
   about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
   SP18. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP17, wherein the internal form is a helically
   wound element, the element having a diameter of about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about 0.06 to about
 5 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about 0.26, or
   about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about 0.13 to
   about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about 0.24,
   or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22, or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm.
   SPI9. The tube as claimed in claims SPI 8, wherein the internal form is of a medical grade material,
 D preferably a medical grade stainless steel.
   SP20. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP19, wherein the tubular body has a
   thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about 0.07 to about
   0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about 0.2, or about
   0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about 0.14mm to
25 about 0.16mm.
   SP21. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP20, wherein the tubular body has an
   internal diameter of about 1.5mm to about 4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about 1.7 to about
   4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or about 1.9 to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or about 2.1 to
   about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8, or about 2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about 3.6, or about
30 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to about 3.4, or about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to about 3.2, or
   about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
   SP22. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP21, wherein the tubular body has an
   external diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about
   4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to
35 about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6

                                                     - 68
   to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or
   about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
     SP23. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP22, wherein the tubular body is
    (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of thermoplastic elastomers, polypropylene based
 5 elastomers, liquid silicon rubbers (LSR), or breathable thermoplastic polyurethanes, or breathable
   polyamides, more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefins,
   thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic
   elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic
   polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of
 D a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to
   about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50,
   or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
   SP24. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP24, wherein the internal form is a
   plurality of rings spaced longitudinally along the lumen.
 5 SP25. The tube as claimed in claim SP24, wherein the rings are toroidal or annular in shape.
   SP26. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP25, wherein the internal form is one or
   more discrete elements linked to one another.
   SP27. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP26, wherein the internal form comprises a
   plurality of reinforcing ribs spaced regularly along the lumen.
 D SP28. The tube as claimed in claim SP27, wherein each reinforcing rib comprises one turn of a
   helical reinforcing wire.
   SP29. The tube as claimed in claim SP28, wherein one turn of the helical reinforcing wire
   comprises one complete revolution about the lumen of the tube.
   SP30. The tube as claimed in claim SP28, wherein one turn of the helical reinforcing wire
25 comprises the wire disposed between adjacent crests of the internal form.
   SP31. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP30, wherein the tubular body is flexible as
   defined by passing the test for increase in flow resistance with bending according to ISO
   5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
   SP32. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP31, wherein a terminal end of the tube is
30 integrated with a nasal prong, the nasal prong being adapted for insertion into a user's nare as a
   nasal interface for delivering breathing gases to a user.
   SP33. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP32, wherein the internal form is a mesh.
   SP34. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP33, wherein the internal form is a
   conductive wire suitable for heating or sensing a property of gases within the tube.

                                                     - 69
   SP35. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP34, wherein the internal form is
   electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an electrically powered heater.
   SP36. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP35, wherein the internal form comprises
   electrically conductive members or electrically powered heaters or sensors (such as flow or
 5 temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).
   SP37. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP36, wherein the tube further comprises a
   heater, more preferably an electrically powered heater (such as a heater wire or heater circuit).
   SP38. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP37, wherein the tube is a breathing tube.
   SP39. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP38, wherein the ratio of pitch of the
 9 internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about
   0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about 0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or
   about 0.29.
   SP40. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP38, wherein the ratio of the internal form
   diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form element or member) to outer diameter of internal
 5 form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to about
   0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
   SP41. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP38, wherein the ratio of the corrugations
   depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is about 0.05 to about 0.09.
   SP42. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPI to SP38, wherein characteristics of the tubular
 9 body contribute to desired flexibility and/or structural support required by the tube.
   SPMI 1. A method of fabricating medical tubing, the method comprising:
   providing an internal form, extruding a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular body
   defining a lumen enclosing the internal form.
25 SPMI2. The method as claimed in claim SPMI 1, further comprising:
   i)       applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, such that the reduced pressure draws
   the tubular body radially inward of the lumen and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the
   internal form, the outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating
   crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
30 ii)      applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body enclosing
   the internal form, such that release of the extension (or stretch) returns (or allows) the extended (or
   stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw radially inward of the lumen and of an outer
   most perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer-most perimeter defining a plurality of
   alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
35 iii)     a combination of i) and ii).

                                                    - 70
   SPMI3. The method as claimed in claim SPMI I or claim SPMI2, wherein the tubular body is
   provided by extrusion or by extruding a material from a die head.
   SPM14. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMI I to SPM13, wherein the tubular body
   is extruded about the internal form and reduced pressure is applied in a manner allowing an inner
 5 face of the tubular body to become at least partly attached or bonded to at least a part of the
   internal form, preferably the reduced pressure differential between the pressure in the lumen and
   the pressure surrounding the tubular body, more preferably the pressure within (or provided to) the
   lumen is less than the pressure surrounding the tubular body (or the pressure surrounding the
   tubular body is greater than the pressure within (or provided to) the lumen).
 D SPMI 5. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMI I to SPMI 5, wherein the tubular body
   is a single walled body.
   SPMI 6. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMI I to SPMI 6, wherein reduced pressure
   is applied at or adjacent formation of the lumen.
   SPM17. The method as claimed in claim SPM14, wherein reduced pressure is applied at or adjacent
 5 a die head.
   SPMI8. The method as claimed in claim SPMI4, wherein the lumen experiences the reduced
   pressure upon exit from an extrusion die head.
   SPM19. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMI I to SPM18, wherein the tubular body
   and the internal form are co-extruded.
 D SPMI 10. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM1 I to SPM18, wherein the tubular body
   so formed is corrugated.
   SPM1 11. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM1 I to SPM1 10, wherein the crests of the
   corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   SPM1 12. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM1 I to SPM1 11, wherein the troughs of
25 the corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by inwardly drawn portions of the tubular body,
   inwardly drawn between the internal form(s).
   SPMI 13. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM1 I to SPM1 12, wherein the internal
   form is a skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the tubular body.
   SPM1 14. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM1 I to SPM1 13, wherein the internal
30 form is a continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous lengths or a series of discrete
   lengths.
   SPMI 15. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMI I to SPMI 13, wherein the internal
   form is a mesh.
   SPMI16. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPMI13, wherein the internal
35 form one or a combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound

                                                     - 71
   skeleton or a helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports
   interconnected or inter-connectable by one or more connecting links.
   SPM1 17. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM1 I to SPM1 16, wherein the internal
   form is supportive or supporting of the lumen within the tube so formed.
 5 SPM118. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPM111 to SPM113 or SPM117, wherein
   the internal form is a helically wound element having a pitch between adjacent turns of about
   0.4mm to about 2mm, or about 0.5 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about
    1.7, or about 0.8 to about 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm
   to about 1.3mm.
 D SPMI19. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMIII to SPMI13 or SPMI17, wherein
   the internal form has an outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to
   about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1
   to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about
   2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or
 5 about 2.9 to about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
   SPM120. The method as claimed in claim SPMI 18 or claim SPMI 19, wherein the internal form is a
   helically wound element, the element having a diameter of about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about 0.06
   to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about 0.26,
   or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about 0.13
 D to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about 0.24,
   or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22, or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm.
   SPM121. The method as claimed in claims SPM120, wherein the internal form is of a medical
   grade material, preferably a medical grade stainless steel.
   SPM122. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM121, wherein the tubular
25 body has a thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about
   0.07 to about 0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about
   0.2, or about 0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about
   0.14mm to about 0.16mm.
   SPM123. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM122, wherein the tubular
30 body has an internal diameter of about 1.5mm to about 4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about
    1.7 to about 4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or about 1.9 to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or
   about 2.1 to about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8, or about 2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about
   3.6, or about 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to about 3.4, or about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to
   about 3.2, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.

                                                     - 72
   SPM124. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM123, wherein the tubular
   body has an external diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about
   1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or
   about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7,
 5 or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to
   about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
   SPM125. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM124, wherein the tubular
   body is (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic polymers, preferably polymers
   suitable for medical breathing tubes.
 D SPM126. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM125, wherein the tubular
   body is (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of any one or more of thermoplastic
   elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s), or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not
   limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for
 5 example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester
   elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers, even
   more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about
   30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about
   30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
 D SPM127. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM126, wherein the tubular
   body is a breathable tube, or formed of or from, a breathable material, such as breathable
   thermoplastic polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
   SPM128. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM127, wherein the reduced
   pressure is applied while the tubular body is in a molten, or a semi-molten or an as yet uncured
25 state, preferably the reduced pressure is about 0 to about -2 bar (absolute), more preferably is about
   0 to about -1 bar (absolute), even more preferably down to about -0.9 bar (absolute), yet even more
   preferably, such reduced pressure is a pressure differential between the inside of the lumen and the
   region surrounding the tubular body.
   SPM129. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM128, wherein the internal
30 form is electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an electrically powered heater.
   SPMI 30. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM129, wherein the internal
   form comprises electrically conductive members or electrically powered heaters or sensors (such as
   flow or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).

                                                     - 73
   SPMI31. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPMI30, wherein the tube further
   comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered heater (such as a heater wire or heater
   circuit).
   SPMI 32. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPMI31, wherein the tubular
 5 body so formed is flexible as defined by passing the test for increase in flow resistance with
   bending according to ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
   SPM133. The method as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM132, wherein the medical
   tubing is a breathing tube.
   SPM134. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPMI I to SPM133, wherein the ratio of pitch
 D of the internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to
   about 0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about 0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28
   or about 0.29.
   SPM135. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM134, wherein the ratio of the
   internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form element or member) to outer diameter
 5 of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05
   to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
   SPM136. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM135, wherein the ratio of the
   corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is about 0.05 to about 0.09.
   SPM137. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SPMII to SPM136, wherein characteristics of
 D the tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or structural support required by the tube.
   SP21. A medical tube comprising: a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between
   open terminal ends of the body, an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the
   tubular body, and a coating encapsulating the internal form, the coating securing the internal form
25 to the tubular body.
   SP22. The medical tube as claimed in claim SP21, wherein the coating and the tubular body are
   welded along the tube.
   SP23. The medical tube as claimed in claim SP21 or claim SP22, wherein the coating and the
   tubular body are welded at discrete locations along the tube.
30 SP24. The medical tube as claimed in claim SP22, wherein the coating and the tubular body are
   welded substantially continuously along the length of the tube.
   SP25. The medical tube as claimed in anyone of claims SP21 to SP24 wherein an outer-most
   perimeter of the internal form defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of
   the tubular body.

                                                     - 74
   SP26. The tube as claimed in claim SP25, wherein the crests of the corrugated tubular body are
   defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   SP27. The tube as claimed in claim SP25 or claim SP26, wherein the troughs of the corrugated
   tubular body are defined by inwardly drawn portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between
 5 the internal form.
   SP28. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP27, wherein the internal form is a
   continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous lengths or a series of discrete lengths.
   SP29. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP28, wherein the internal form is one or a
   combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound skeleton or a
 9 helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports interconnected or inter
   connectable by one or more connecting links.
   SP210. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP29, wherein the internal form is
   supporting of the tubular body defining the lumen within.
   SP21 1. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP21 0, wherein the internal form is a
 5 skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the tubular body.
   SP212. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP25 to SP27, wherein the tubular body is
   substantially unsupported in the troughs from the internal form and supported in the crests by the
   internal form.
   SP213. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP25 to SP27, wherein the wall of the tubular
 9 body is suspended between adjacent crests.
   SP214. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP213, wherein the tubular body is
   (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic polymers, preferably polymers suitable
   for medical breathing tubes.
   SP215. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP214 wherein the internal form is a
25 helically wound rib, or ribbing element.
   SP216. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP215, wherein the internal form is a
   helically wound strip, the coating encapsulating the strip.
   SP217. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP216, wherein the internal form is a
   helically wound metallic wire, the coating encapsulating the wire.
30 SP218. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP217, wherein coating provides a
   surface that readily bonds with the tubular body.
   SP219. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP218, wherein the internal form is a
   helically wound element having a pitch between adjacent turns of about 0.4mm to about 2mm, or
   about 05 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about 1.7, or about 0.8 to about
35 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm to about 1.3mm.

                                                     - 75
   SP220. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP219, wherein the internal form has an
   outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to
   about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2
   to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about
 5 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or
   about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
   SP221. The tube as claimed in anyone of claims SP21 to claim SP220, wherein the internal form is
   a helically wound element, the element having a diameter of about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or about
   0.06 to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to about 0.27, or about 0.09 to about
 D 0.26, or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or about 0.12 to about 0.23, or about
   0.13 to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to about 0.22, or about 0.16 to about
   0.24, or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22, or about 0.19mm to about 0.21mm.
   SP222. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP221, wherein the internal form is of a
   medical grade material, preferably a medical grade stainless steel.
 5 SP223. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP222, wherein the tubular body has a
   thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about 0.07 to about
   0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about 0.2, or about
   0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about 0.14mm to
   about 0.16mm.
 D SP224. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP223, wherein the tubular body has an
   internal diameter of about 1.5mm to about 4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about 1.7 to about
   4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or about 1.9 to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or about 2.1 to
   about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8, or about 2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about 3.6, or about
   2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to about 3.4, or about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to about 3.2, or
25 about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
   SP225. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP224, wherein the tubular body has an
   external diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about 1.8 to about
   4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or about 2.2 to
   about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7, or about 2.6
30 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to about 3.3, or
   about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
   SP226. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP225, wherein the tubular body is
   (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of thermoplastic elastomers, polypropylene based
   elastomers, liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable thermoplastic polyurethanes, more preferably
35 polymers may be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefin's, thermoplastic elastomers, or

                                                     - 76
   breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene
   block copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or
   about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or
 5 about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80,
   or about 90.
   SP227. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP226, wherein the internal form is a
   plurality of rings spaced longitudinally along the lumen.
   SP228. The tube as claimed in claim SP227, wherein the rings are toroidal or annular in shape.
 9 SP229. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP228, wherein the internal form is one
   or more discrete elements linked to one another.
   SP230. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP229, wherein the internal form
   comprises a plurality of reinforcing ribs spaced regularly along the lumen.
   SP231. The tube as claimed in claim SP230, wherein each reinforcing rib comprises one turn of a
 5 helical reinforcing wire.
   SP232. The tube as claimed in claim SP231, wherein one turn of the helical reinforcing wire
   comprises one complete revolution about the lumen of the tube.
   SP233. The tube as claimed in claim SP231, wherein one turn of the helical reinforcing wire
   comprises the wire disposed between adjacent crests of the internal form.
 9 SP234. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP2 to SP233, wherein the tubular body is flexible
   as defined by passing the test for increase in flow resistance with bending according to ISO
   5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
   SP235. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP234, wherein a terminal end of the
   tube is integrated with a nasal prong, the nasal prong being adapted for insertion into a user's nare
25 as a nasal interface for delivering breathing gases to a user.
   SP236. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP235, wherein the internal form is a
   mesh.
   SP237. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP236, wherein the internal form is a
   conductive wire suitable for heating or sensing a property of gases within the tube.
30 SP238. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP237, wherein the internal form is
   electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an electrically powered heater.
   SP239. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP238, wherein the internal form
   comprises electrically conductive members or electrically powered heaters or sensors (such as flow
   or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).

                                                     - 77
   SP240. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP239, wherein the tube further
   comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered heater (such as a heater wire or heater
   circuit).
   SP241. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP240, wherein the tube is a breathing
 5 tube.
   SP242. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP241, wherein the ratio of pitch of the
   internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about
   0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about 0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28 or
   about 0.29.
 9 SP243. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP242, wherein the ratio of the internal
   form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form element or member) to outer diameter of
   internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05 to
   about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
   SP244. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP243, wherein the ratio of the
 5 corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is about 0.05 to about 0.09.
   SP245. The tube as claimed in any one of claims SP21 to SP244, wherein characteristics of the
   tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or structural support required by the tube.
   STM21. A method of fabricating medical tubing, the method comprising: providing an internal
 9 form encapsulated in a coating, and providing a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular
   body defining a lumen enclosing the internal form, the tubular body being provided about the
   internal form such that the coating and an internal surface of the tubular body bond together,
   wherein the internal form remains encapsulated.
   STM22. The method as claimed in claim STM21 wherein the step of providing an internal form
25 comprises providing an elongate form encapsulated within a coating suitable for application in
   medical tubing, and fabricating a supportive internal form for a medical tube from the coated
   elongate form.
   STM23. The method as claimed in claim STM22, wherein the uncoated elongate form is dipped in
   a bath of coating material to apply the encapsulating coating.
30 STM24. The method as claimed in claim STM23, wherein the bath contains a molten polymer
   grade at a temperature above about 150'C.
   STM25. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM22 to STM24, wherein the internal form
   is fabricated by spirally winding the elongate form into a helical form.

                                                     - 78
   STM26. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM22 to STM25 comprising: providing an
   uncoated elongate form, encapsulating the elongate form in a coating suitable for application in
   medical tubing.
   STM27. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM26 comprising:
 5 a)       applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, such that the reduced pressure draws
   the tubular body radially inward, or
   b)       applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body enclosing
   the internal form, such that release of the extension (or stretch) returns (or allows) the extended (or
   stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw radially inward, or
 9 c)       a combination of a) and b).
   STM28. The method as claimed in claim STM27, wherein the tubular body is drawn radially inward
   of the lumen and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer-most
   perimeter defining a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body to
   form a corrugated tube.
 5 STM29. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM28, wherein the tubular body
   is provided by extrusion or by extruding a material from a die head.
   STM210. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM29, wherein the tubular body
   is extruded about the internal form and a reduced pressure is applied in a manner allowing an inner
   face of the tubular body to become at least partly attached or bonded to at least a part of the
 9 coating, preferably the reduced pressure creates a differential between the pressure in the lumen
   and the pressure surrounding the tubular body, more preferably the pressure within (or provided
   to) the lumen is less than the pressure surrounding the tubular body (or the pressure surrounding
   the tubular body is greater than the pressure within (or provided to) the lumen).
   STM21 1. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM210, wherein the tubular
25 body is provided about the internal form at a temperature that causes the at least a portion of the
   coating and the tubular body to bond.
   STM212. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM211, wherein the tubular
   body is provided about the internal form at a temperature allowing welding of the coating and the
   internal form.
30 STM213. The method as claimed in claim STM211 or STM212, wherein the tubular body at least
   partially fuses with the coating.
   STM214. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM213, wherein the tubular
   body is a single walled body.
   STM215. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM214, wherein a reduced
35 pressure is applied at or adjacent formation of the lumen.

                                                    - 79
   STM216. The method as claimed in claim STM215, wherein the reduced pressure is applied at or
   adjacent a die head.
   STM217. The method as claimed in claim STM216, wherein the lumen experiences the reduced
   pressure upon exit from an extrusion die head.
 5 STM218. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM217, wherein the tubular
   body is extruded simultaneously with fabrication of the internal form from the elongate form.
   STM219. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM218, wherein the tubular
   body so formed is corrugated.
   STM220. The method as claimed in claim STM219, wherein the crests of the corrugated tubular
 9 body so formed are defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   STM221. The method as claimed in claims STM29 or claim STM220, wherein the troughs of the
   corrugated tubular body so formed are defined by inwardly drawn portions of the tubular body,
   inwardly drawn between the internal form(s).
   STM222. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM221, wherein the internal
 5 form is a skeleton or internal supporting structure, supportive of the tubular body.
   STM223. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM222, wherein the internal
   form is a continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous lengths or a series of discrete
   lengths.
   STM224. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM223, wherein the internal
 9 form one or a combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound
   skeleton or a helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports
   interconnected or inter-connectable by one or more connecting links.
   STM225. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM224, wherein the internal
   form is supportive or supporting of the lumen within the tube so formed.
25 STM226. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM225, wherein the internal
   form comprises a helically wound element having a pitch between adjacent turns of about 0.4mm
   to about 2mm, or about 0.5 to about 1.9, or about 0.6 to about 1.8, or about 0.7 to about 1.7, or
   about 0.8 to about 1.6, or about 0.9 to about 1.5, or about I to about 1.4, or about 1.1mm to about
   1.3mm.
30 STM227. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM226, wherein the internal
   form has an outer most diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or
   about 1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1,
   or about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about
   3.7, or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to
35 about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.

                                                    - 80
   STM228. The method as claimed in anyone of claims STM21 to STM227, wherein the internal
   form is a helically wound element, the element having a diameter of about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, or
   about 0.06 to about 0.29, or about 0.07 to about 0.28, or about 0.08 to about 0.27, or about 0.09 to
   about 0.26, or about 0.1 to about 0.25, or about 0.11 to about 0.24, or about 0.12 to about 0.23, or
 5 about 0.13 to about 0.24, or about 0.14 to about 0.23, or about 0.15 to about 0.22, or about 0.16 to
   about 0.24, or about 0.17 to about 0.23, or about 0.18 to about 0.22, or about 0.19mm to about
   0.21mm.
   STM229. The method as claimed in anyone of claims STM21 to STM228, wherein the internal
   form is of a medical grade material, preferably a medical grade stainless steel coated with a suitable
 D material, preferably a polymer grade or a stainless steel.
   STM230. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM229, wherein the tubular
   body has a thickness of about 0.05mm to about 0.25mm, or about 0.06 to about 0.24, or about
   0.07 to about 0.23, or about 0.08 to about 0.22, or about 0.09 to about 0.21, or about 0.1 to about
   0.2, or about 0.11 to about 0.19, or about 0.12 to about 0.18, or about 0.13 to about 0.17, or about
 5 0.14mm to about 0.16mm.
   STM231. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM230, wherein the tubular
   body has an internal diameter of about 1.5mm to about 4.5mm, or about 1.6 to about 4.4, or about
   1.7 to about 4.3, or about 1.8 to about 4.2, or about 1.9 to about 4.1, or about 2 to about 4, or
   about 2.1 to about 3.9, or about 2.2 to about 3.8, or about 2.3 to about 3.7, or about 2.4 to about
 D 3.6, or about 2.5 to about 3.5, or about 2.6 to about 3.4, or about 2.7 to about 3.3, or about 2.8 to
   about 3.2, or about 2.9mm to about 3.1mm.
   STM232. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM231, wherein the tubular
   body has an external diameter of about 1.6mm to about 4.6mm, or about 1.7 to about 4.5, or about
   1.8 to about 4.4, or about 1.9 to about 4.3, or about 2 to about 4.2, or about 2.1 to about 4.1, or
25 about 2.2 to about 4, or about 2.3 to about 3.9, or about 2.4 to about 3.8, or about 2.5 to about 3.7,
   or about 2.6 to about 3.6, or about 2.7 to about 3.5, or about 2.8 to about 3.4, or about 2.9 to
   about 3.3, or about 3mm to about 3.2mm.
   STM233. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM232, wherein the tubular
   body is (preferably extruded from) a polymer, such as thermoplastic polymers, preferably polymers
30 suitable for medical breathing tubes.
   STM234. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM233, wherein the tubular
   body is (preferably extruded from) one or a combination of any one or more of thermoplastic
   elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s), more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefin's,
35 thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic

                                                     - 81
   elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic
   polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of
   a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to
   about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50,
 5 or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
   STM235. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM234, wherein the reduced
   pressure is applied while the tubular body is in a molten, or a semi-molten or an as yet uncured
   state, preferably the reduced pressure is about 0 to about -2 bar (absolute), more preferably is about
   0 to about -1 bar (absolute), even more preferably down to about -0.9 bar (absolute), yet even more
 D preferably, such reduced pressure is a pressure differential between the inside of the lumen and the
   region surrounding the tubular body.
   STM236. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM235, wherein the internal
   form is electrically conductive, preferably the internal form is an electrically powered heater.
   STM237. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM236, wherein the internal
 5 form comprises electrically conductive members or electrically powered heaters or sensors (such as
   flow or temperature or humidity or pressure sensors).
   STM238. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM237, wherein the tube
   further comprises a heater, more preferably an electrically powered heater (such as a heater wire or
   heater circuit).
 D STM239. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM238, wherein the tubular
   body so formed is flexible as defined by passing the test for increase in flow resistance with
   bending according to ISO 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
   STM240. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM239, wherein the medical
   tubing is a breathing tube.
25 STM241. The method as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM240, wherein the tube is
   formed by co-extruding at least one helical reinforcing element together with a tubular body, the
   tubular body having a continuous wall.
   STM242. The method as claimed in claim STM241, wherein a vacuum is applied to a lumen region
   of the extruded tubular body, such that, the continuous wall forms corrugations about the internal
30 form.
   STM243. The method as claimed in claim STM241 or claim STM242, wherein the continuous wall
   being extruded is a single wall.
   STM244. The tube as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM243, wherein the ratio of pitch
   of the internal form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to

                                                     - 82
   about 0.50, more preferably the ratio is about 0.20 to about 0.35, even more the ratio is about 0.28
   or about 0.29.
   STM245. The tube as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM244, wherein the ratio of the
   internal form diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form element or member) to outer diameter
 5 of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to about 0.10, more preferably about 0.05
   to about 0.07, most preferably the ratio is 0.06.
   STM246. The tube as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM245, wherein the ratio of the
   corrugations depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is about 0.05 to about 0.09.
   STM247. The tube as claimed in any one of claims STM21 to STM246, wherein characteristics of
 9 the tubular body contribute to desired flexibility and/or structural support required by the tube.
   ST31. A medical tube comprising: a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between
   open terminal ends of the body, and an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of
   the tubular body.
   ST32. The tube as claimed in claim ST31, wherein an outer-most perimeter of the internal form
 5 defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
   ST33. The tube as claimed in claim ST31 or ST32, wherein the internal form is encapsulated in a
   coating, the coating securing the internal form to the tubular body.
   STM31. A method of fabricating medical tubing, the method comprising:
 9 providing an internal form, providing a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular body
   defining a lumen enclosing the internal form, and i) applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the
   lumen, or ii) applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body
   enclosing the internal form, or iii) a combination of i) and ii).
   STM32. The method as claimed in claim STM31, wherein applying a greater reduced pressure or a
25 greater extension (or stretch) or a combination of both draws the tubular body radially inward of
   the lumen along a length of the tubular body and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the
   internal form when the greater reduced pressure is applied or the extension (or stretch) is released
   or both, the outer-most perimeter of the internal form then defining a plurality of alternating crests
   and troughs
30 STM33. The method as claimed in claims STM31 or STM32, wherein the internal form is
   encapsulated in a coating, the tubular body being provided about the internal form such that the
   coating and an internal surface of the tubular body bond together, wherein the internal form
   remains encapsulated.
35 TAI. A securement system for a user interface and/or user interface tubing comprising:

                                                      - 83
            a dermal patch defining a securement footprint, the dermal patch having a user side and an
   interface side, the user side of the dermal patch being configured to attach or adhere to a user's
   skin, and a securing patch, at least a part of the securing patch being configured to extend over a
   user interface and/or associated user interface tubing and affixes to the user interface side of the
 5 dermal patch to secure the user interface to the user, the securing patch and the dermal patch being
   configured so that the securing patch can be contained within or bounded by the securement
   footprint of the dermal patch when the securement system is applied to a patient with a suitable or
   compatible user interface.
   TA2. The securement system as claimed in claim TAI wherein the dermal patch has the same or a
 9 greater surface area than the securing patch.
   TA3. The securement system as claimed in claim TAI or claim TA2 wherein the securement patch
   is shaped or otherwise configured to accommodate geometric or other features of the user
   interface and/or associated user interface tubing.
   TA4. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA3 wherein the securement
 5 patch has at least one wing.
   TA5. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA4 wherein the securement
   patch has a pair of wings arranged at one end of the patch, the wings are configured to secure to
   the dermal patch on either side of a user interface and/or associated user interface tubing.
   TA6. The securement system as claimed in anyone of claims TAI to TA5 wherein the securement
 9 patch has a tube end wing, the tube end wing being configured to extend, or for extending, under
   the user interface tubing and affix to the dermal patch.
   TA7. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA6 wherein the user side of
   the dermal patch has a dermatologically sensitive adhesive (such as a hydrocolloid for example) that
   attaches or adheres the dermal patch to a user's skin.
25 TA8. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA7 wherein the dermal
   patch has a surface of sufficient area such that, the surface distributes pressure the attachment or
   adhering forces across the user's skin.
   TA9. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA8 wherein the dermal
   patch is configured to attach or adhere to a user's face.
30 TA10. The securement system as claimed in anyone of claims TA1 to TA9 wherein the dermal
   patch is configure to attach or adhere to a user's face adjacent the user's upper lip and/or cheek.
   TA1 1. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TA1 to TAI0 wherein the
   securement system is configured to receive and/or secure a nasal cannula and/or associated tubing,
   the tubing extending from one or both sides of a user's face.

                                                     - 84
   TAI2. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TAI I wherein the
   securement system is configured for use with an infant or neonatal infant.
   TA13. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA12 wherein the
   securement system is configured for use with a cannula as further defined by any one or more of
 5 COMI-COM17, or COMMII-COMM19, or COM21-COM216.
   TA14. The securement system as claimed in any one of claims TAI to TA13 wherein the
   securement system is configured for use with a tube as defined by any one or more of SPI-SP38, or
   SP21-SP241, or ST31-ST33.
 9 COMI. A nasal cannula arrangement comprising: at least one nasal prong, the prong having a
   gas(es) outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's nare and a gas(es) inlet fluidly connected to the
   gas(es) outlet, and a corrugated gas(es) delivery tube, the tube comprising a tubular body defining a
   lumen and an internal form enclosed within the lumen, the internal form supportive of the tubular
   body, an outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating crests and
 5 troughs along a length of the tubular body, wherein the gas(es) inlet of the nasal prong is formed
   integrally with a terminal end of the tube so that the tube lumen is fluidly connected to the gas(es)
   outlet of the nasal prong.
   COM2. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim COMI, wherein the nasal prong is shaped to
   substantially conform anatomically to the interior of a user's nose or nare.
 9 COM3. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim COMI or claim COM2, wherein the nasal prong is
   curved, or otherwise shaped or configured, to avoid a user's septum.
   COM4. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM3, wherein the nasal
   cannula has a substantially planar or flat or contoured backing configured to rest on a user's face,
   preferably as a stabilizer of the prong in the nare of a user.
25 COM5. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim COM4, wherein one or more ribs extend between a
   front face of the backing and the cannula, the ribs providing a contact surface for tape or other
   suitable retainer employed to fasten or attach the cannula to a user's face, preferably the tape
   comprises adhesive portions or is an adhesive tape or a contact adhesive tape.
   COM6. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM5, wherein two nasal
30 prongs are formed integrally with a single corrugated delivery tube.
   COM7. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM6, wherein the cannula
   comprises a pair of nasal prongs, each prong formed integrally with, or may be attached (or
   attachable) or connected (or connectable) to a terminal end of a pair of gas(es) delivery tube.

                                                    - 85
   COM8. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM7, wherein the cannula
   arrangement is formed of a polymer, such as a thermoplastic polymer, preferably a polymer or
   polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.
   COM9. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM8, wherein the cannula
 5 arrangement is formed of one or a combination of any one or more of thermoplastic elastomer(s),
   polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s), or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not
   limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers, for
   example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester
 D elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers, even
   more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or about 30 to about 80 or about
   30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about
   30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80, or about 90.
 5 COM10. A user interface comprising a pair of nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI
   to COM9.
   COMI 1. The user interface as claimed in claim COM3, wherein the nasal prongs of each nasal
   cannula are disposed adjacent each other and the respective delivery tubes extend in opposite
   directions away from the nasal prongs.
 D COM12. The user interface as claimed in claim COM4, further comprising a harness, the harness
   extending between and coupling the nasal cannula.
   COM13. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM12, wherein the tube is
   a breathing tube.
   COM14. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM13, wherein the tube is
25 as defined by any one or more of SPI-SP38, or SP21-SP241, or ST31-ST33.
   COM15. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM14, wherein the tube is
   connected to the gas inlet of the nasal prong (or both prongs) from one side (e.g. the left or the
   right) of the cannula.
   COM16. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM14, wherein the tube is
30 connected to the gas inlet of the nasal prongs from both sides of the cannula (e.g. both the left side
   and the right side)
   COM17. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COMI to COM16, wherein the
   cannula is an inant (or neonatal) nasal cannula.

                                                     - 86
   COMMI 1. A method of fabricating a nasal cannula, the method comprising: providing an internal
   form, extruding a tubular body about the internal form, the tubular body defining a lumen
   enclosing the internal form, and attaching a nasal cannula thereto.
   COMMI2. The method as claimed in claim COMMI 1, further comprising:
 5 i)       applying a reduced pressure within (or to) the lumen, such that the reduced pressure
   draws the tubular body radially inward of the lumen and of an outer-most perimeter defined by the
   internal form, the outer-most perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating
   crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
   ii)      applying an extension (or stretch) to at least a part or a region of the tubular body
 D enclosing the internal form, such that release of the extension (or stretch) returns (or allows) the
   extended (or stretched) part or region of the tubular body to draw radially inward of the lumen and
   of an outer-most perimeter defined by the internal form, the outer-most perimeter defining a
   plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body, or
   iii)     a combination of i) and ii).
 5 COMMI3. The method as claimed in claim COMM11 or claim COMM12, wherein the method
   comprises over-moulding a nasal prong over a terminal end of the tubular body.
   COMMI4. The method as claimed in any one of claims COMMI I to COMMI3, wherein a
   terminal end of the tube so formed by the tubular body is located in a mould or a form for
   moulding or forming of a nasal cannula, preferably the mould or form is closed and the nasal
 D cannula is over-moulded or formed over the or a terminal end of the tube.
   COMMI 5. The method as claimed in any one of claims COMMI I to COMMI4, wherein the nasal
   cannula is a polymer, such as thermoplastic polymers, preferably polymers suitable for medical
   breathing tubes.
   COMMI 6. The method as claimed in any one of claims COMMI I to COMMI 5, wherein the nasal
25 cannula formed from is one or a combination of any one or more of thermoplastic elastomer(s),
   polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s), or breathable polyamides, more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not
   limited to, polyolefins, thermoplastic elastomers, liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable
   thermoplastic elastomers, for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block
30 copolymers, copolyester elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomers, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about 90, or
   about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about 50 or
   about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or about 80,
   or about 90.

                                                      - 87
   COMMI 7. The method as claimed in any one of claims COMMI I to COMMI 6, wherein the
   tubular body is a breathable tube, or formed of or from a breathable material, such as breathable
   thermoplastic polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
   COMMI 8. The method as claimed in any one of claims COMMI I to COMMI 7, wherein a nasal
 5 cannula mould is provided, the mould receivable of a terminal end of the tube so formed by
   fabrication of the tubular body, such that operation of the mould facilities moulding of the nasal
   cannula, a part of which is over-moulded of the tube terminal end.
   COMMI 9. The method as claimed in claims COMMI I to COMMI 8, wherein the nasal cannula
   arrangement produced by the nasal cannula is fluid communication with a terminal end of the tube
 9 so formed by fabrication of the tubular body.
   COM21. A nasal cannula arrangement comprising: at least one nasal prong, the prong having a
   gas(es) outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's nare and a gas(es) inlet fluidly connected to the
   gas(es) outlet, and a gas(es) delivery tube, the tube comprising a tubular body defining a lumen and
 5 an internal form enclosed within the lumen, the internal form supportive of the tubular body,
   wherein the gas(es) inlet of the nasal prong is formed integrally with a terminal end of the tube so
   that the tube lumen is fluidly connected to the gas(es) outlet of the nasal prong.
   COM22. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim COM21, wherein an outer-most perimeter of the
   internal form defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
 9 COM23. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim COM21 or COM22, wherein the prong is shaped
   to follow the anatomical curvature of a user's nare.
   COM24. The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims COM21 to COM23, wherein the nasal
   prong is curved, or otherwise shaped or configured, to avoid a user's septum.
   COM25. The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims COM21to COM24, wherein the nasal
25 cannula has a contoured backing or facial pad configured to rest on a user's face, preferably as a
   stabilizer of the prong in the nare of a user.
   COM26. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim COM25, wherein one or more ribs extend between
   a front face of the backing or facial pas and the cannula, the ribs providing a contact surface for
   tape or other suitable retainer employed to fasten or attach the cannula to a user's face, preferably
30 the tape comprises adhesive portions or is an adhesive tape or a contact adhesive tape.
   COM27. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COM21 to COM26, wherein two nasal
   prongs are formed integrally with a single corrugated delivery tube.
   COM28. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COM21 to COM27, wherein the
   cannula arrangement is formed of a liquid silicon rubber or a polymer, such as a thermoplastic
35 polymer, preferably a polymer or polymers suitable for medical breathing tubes.

                                                    - 88
   COM29. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims COM21 to COM28, wherein the
   cannula arrangement is formed of one or a combination of any one or more of thermoplastic
   elastomer(s), polypropylene based elastomer(s), liquid silicon rubber(s), or breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s), more preferably polymers may be those such as, but not limited to, polyolefin's,
 5 thermoplastic elastomers, breathable polyester elastomers, or breathable thermoplastic elastomers,
   for example thermoplastic elastomer families, such as styrene block copolymers, copolyester
   elastomers, or thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers or thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers,
   breathable polyester elastomer, even more preferably polymers of a Shore A of about 30 to about
   90, or about 30 to about 80 or about 30 to about 70, or about 30 to about 60, or about 30 to about
 D 50 or about 30 to about 40, or about 30, or about 40, or about 50, or about 60, or about 70, or
   about 80, or about 90.
   COM210. A user interface comprising a pair of nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims
   COM221 to COM29.
 5 COM211. The user interface as claimed in claim COM210, wherein the nasal prongs are disposed
   adjacent each other and the respective delivery tubes extend in opposite directions away from the
   nasal prongs.
   COM212. The user interface as claimed in claim COM21 1, further comprising a harness, the
   harness extending between and coupling the nasal cannula.
 D COM213. The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims COM21 to COM212, wherein the tube
   is a breathing tube.
   COM214. The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims COM21 to COM213, wherein the tube
   is as defined by any one or more of SPI-SP38, or SP21-SP241, or ST31-ST33.
   COM215. The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims COM21 to COM24, wherein the tube
25 is fabricated by a method as defined by any one or more of SPM 1-SPMI 33, or STM21-STM243,
   or STM31-STM33.
   COM216. The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims COM21 to COM215, wherein the
   prong is glued or otherwise adhered to the tube.
30 PWLI. A nasal cannula arrangement comprising: at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas
   outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's nare and a gas inlet fluidly connected to the gas outlet,
   the at least one nasal prong comprising a backing, the backing configured to rest on a user's face,
   wherein a lip extends about at least a part of the perimeter of a rear surface of the backing, the rear
   surface configured for receiving or retaining a user interface patch, such that in use, the user

                                                      - 89
   interface patch may be releasably attachable or connectable to, or with, a dermal patch affixed to a
   user's face.
   PWL2. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim PWLI, wherein the lip is a barrier.
   PWL3. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim PWLI or claim PWL2, wherein the lip is deformable.
 5 PWL4. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWL3, wherein the lip extends
   at least about the perimeter of a region substantially adjacent to a prong associated with the
   backing.
   PWL5. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWL3, wherein the lip is a
   series of one or more separate lips.
 9 PWL6. The nasal cannula as claimed in claim PWL5, wherein the one or more separate lips are
   adjacent, or adjoining or overlapping lip portions.
   PWL7. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWL6, wherein the lip is an
   endless lip extending about the perimeter of the rear surface of the backing.
   PWL8. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWL7, wherein, in use, the lip
 5 substantially forms a fluid (or liquid) seal, or barrier to fluid (or liquid), between the rear surface of
   the backing and a cannula facing surface of the user interface patch.
   PWL9. The nasal cannula as claimed in any of claims PWLI to PWL8, wherein the backing is
   substantially planar or flat or contoured (such as a pre-formed curve) backing configured to rest on
   a user's face.
 9 PWLIO. The nasal cannula as claimed in any of claims PWLI to PWL9, wherein the backing assists
   as a stabilizer of the prong(s) in the nare(s) of a user.
   PWLI 1. The nasal cannula as claimed in any of claims PWLI to PWLI0, wherein the at least one
   backing extends laterally outward from the at least one nasal prong, away from the septum of a
   user.
25 PWL12. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWLI 1, wherein the cannula
   is further defined by any one or more of COMI-COMI7, or COMMII-COMM19, or COM21
   COM216.
   PWL13. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWL12, wherein the cannula
   is operational with the securement system as defined by any one or more of TAI-TA14.
30 PWL14. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWL13, wherein the user
   interface patch receivable or retainable on the rear surface of the backing as defined by any one or
   more of WPI-WPI5.
   PWLI5. The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWLI4, wherein the gas inlet
   of the cannula is fluidly connected to or with the tube as defined by any one or more of SPI-SP38,
35 SPMI I -SPMI 33, SP21 -SP241, STM21 -STM243, ST31 -ST33, STM3 I -STM33.

                                                       - 90
   PWLI6. The interface as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWLI 5, wherein the at least the
   lip(s) is hydrophobic.
   PWLI7. The interface as claimed in any one of claims PWLI to PWLI6, wherein the at least the
   lip(s) comprises at least one outer perimeter lip portion and at least one inner perimeter lip
 5 portion, each of said lips provided for contacting with a user's face.
   WPI. A part of a releasable fastener includes a substrate portion supporting a distributed
   mechanical fastener across its surface, the substrate portion being flexible but substantially non
   stretchable, the substrate portion being divided into multiple areas by at least one slit or at least one
 D slot, such that the substrate may substantially conform to an underlying compound curved surface
   by independent bending of different divided portions of the substrate.
   WP2. The securement system as claimed in WPI wherein the substrate portion includes a
   plurality of slits or slots or both which together divide the substrate portion into a serpentine body.
   WP3. The securement system as claimed in claimWP2 wherein the slits and/or slots are arranged in
 5 the substrate such that a first set of at least one set of slits or slots extends into the substrate from
   one edge of the substrate and a second set of slits or slots extends into the substrate from the other
   edge of the substrate, the slits or slots of a set being interleaved with the slits or slots of the other
   set such that a path along the substrate portion from one end to another end without crossing the
   slits or slots must follow a zigzag or serpentine path much longer than a direct line between the
 D ends.
   WP4. A securement system as claimed in any one of claims WPI to WP3 wherein a slit or slot of
   the plurality of slits or slots is curved.
   WP5. A securement system as claimed in any one of claims WPI to WP3 wherein a plurality of the
   slits or slots is curved and the curved slits or slots are arranged substantially parallel.
25 WP6. A securement system as claimed in any one of claims WPI to WP3 wherein the slits or slots
   are arranged in a herring bone pattern extending in from the edges of the substrate portion.
   WP7. A securement system as claimed in claim WPI wherein the substrate is divided into separated
   portions by a serpentine slit or slot.
   WP8. A securement system as claimed in claim WPI wherein the substrate portion is divided into
30 portions by a spiral slit or slot.
   WP9. A securement system as claimed in claim WPI wherein the substrate portion is divided into
   sub-portions by slits or slots arranged on substantially concentric circles.
   WPIO. A securement system as claimed in claim WP9 wherein the concentric circles are centered at
   approximately the centre of the substrate portion.

                                                    - 91
  WPI 1. A securement system as claimed in claim WPI wherein the slit or slots divide the substrate
  portion into a plurality of islands, each joined to an adjacent island or islands by a narrow bridge.
  WP12. A securement system as claimed in claim WPI wherein the substrate portion is divided into
  portions by an S shaped slit.
5 WP13. A securement system as claimed in claim WPI wherein the substrate portion is divided into
  portions by a T shaped slit.
  WP14. A securement system as claimed in any one of claims WPI to WP13 wherein the substrate
  portion covers at least 70% of the area of the dermal patch.
  WP15. A securement system as claimed in any one of claims WPI to WP14 wherein for a
9 boundary defining the shortest path around the perimeter of the substrate, the substrate portion
  covers at least 80% of the area within the boundary.
  WPI6. A securement system as claimed in any one of claims WPI to WPI5 wherein the system
  may be utilised in conjunction with any one or more of securement system of TAI-TA14, or the
  cannula of COMI-COM17, or the cannula of PWLI-PWL17, or tubes SPI-SP38 or SP21-SP241 or
5 ST31-ST33.

                                                     - 92
   CLAIMS:
   1.       A medical breathing tube comprising:
            a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
   body,
 5          an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body, and
            a coating encapsulating the internal form, the coating securing the internal form to the
   tubular body.
   2.       The medical tube as claimed in claim 1, wherein the coating and the tubular body are
   plastically welded to each other along the tube.
 9 3.       The medical tube as claimed in claim I or claim 2, wherein an outer-most perimeter of the
   internal form defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
   4.       The tube as claimed in any one of claims I to 3, wherein the crests of the corrugated
   tubular body are defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   5.       The tube as claimed in any one of claims I to 4, wherein the internal form is one or a
 5 combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound skeleton or a
   helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports interconnected or inter
   connectable by one or more connecting links.
   6.       The tube as claimed in any one of claims I to 5, wherein the tubular body is substantially
   unsupported in the troughs from the internal form and supported in the crests by the internal
 9 form.
   7.       The tube as claimed in any one of claims I to 6, wherein the tubular body is a breathable
   tube, or is formed of or from a breathable material, such as breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
   8.       The tube as claimed in any one of claims I to 7, wherein the internal form is a helically
25 wound metallic wire, the coating encapsulating the wire.
   9.       The tube as claimed in any one of claims I to 8, wherein coating provides a surface that
   readily bonds with the tubular body.
   10.      A medical breathing tube comprising:
   a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the body, and
30 an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body, an outer-most
   perimeter of the internal form defining a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length
   of the tubular body.
   11.      The tube as claimed in claim 10, wherein the tubular body is an extruded tube.
   12.      The tube as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the tubular body is a continuous tube.

                                                     - 93
   13.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein the crests of the corrugated
   tubular body are defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   14.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the internal form is one or a
   combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound skeleton or a
 5 helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports interconnected or inter
   connectable by one or more connecting links.
   15.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the tubular body is substantially
   unsupported in the troughs from the internal form and supported in the crests by the internal
   form.
 9 16.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 15, wherein the tubular body is a breathable
   tube, or is formed of or from a breathable material, such as breathable thermoplastic
   polyurethane(s) or breathable polyamides.
   17.      A medical breathing tube comprising:
            a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
 5 body, and
            an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body.
   18.      The tube as claimed in claim 17, wherein the internal form is encapsulated in a coating, the
   coating securing the internal form to the tubular body.
   19.      The medical tube as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the coating and the tubular
 9 body are plastically welded to each other along the tube.
   20.      The medical tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein the coating and the
   tubular body are welded at discrete locations along the tube.
   21.      The medical tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein the coating and the
   tubular body are welded substantially continuously along the length of the tube.
25 22.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein an outer-most perimeter of the
   internal form defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs along a length of the tubular body.
   23.      The medical tube as claimed in anyone of claims 17 to 22, wherein an outer-most perimeter
   of the internal form defines a plurality of alternating crests and troughs (i.e. corrugations) along a
   length of the tubular body.
30 24.      The tube as claimed in claim 22 or claim 23, wherein the crests of the tubular body are
   defined by the outer-most perimeter of the internal form.
   25.      The tube as claimed in claim any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein the troughs of the tubular
   body are defined by inwardly drawn portions of the tubular body, inwardly drawn between the
   internal form.

                                                     - 94
   26.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 25, wherein the internal form is a
   continuous length, one or a series of semi-continuous lengths or a series of discrete lengths.
   27.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 26, wherein the internal form is one or a
   combination of a helical spring or a helically wound element, a helically wound skeleton or a
 5 helically wound rib, annular disks, rings, or a plurality of discrete supports interconnected or inter
   connectable by one or more connecting links.
   28.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 27, wherein the internal form is supporting
   of the tubular body defining the lumen within.
   29.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 28, wherein the internal form is a skeleton
 9 or internal supporting structure, supportive of the tubular body.
   30.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 29, wherein the tubular body is substantially
   unsupported in the troughs from the internal form and supported in the crests by the internal
   form.
   31.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 30, wherein the wall of the tubular body is
 5 suspended between adjacent crests.
   32.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 31, wherein the tubular body is a breathable
   tube, or is formed of or from a breathable material, (e.g. breathable thermoplastic polyurethane(s)
   or breathable polyamides).
   33.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 32 wherein the internal form is a helically
 9 wound rib, or ribbing element.
   34.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 33, wherein the internal form is a helically
   wound metallic wire, the coating encapsulating the wire.
   35.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 34, wherein coating provides a surface that
   is able to bond with the tubular body.
25 36.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 35, wherein the internal form has a pitch
   that varies along a length (or sections) of the tube.
   37.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 36, wherein the internal form is a helically
   wound element having a pitch between adjacent turns of about 1 mm to about 1.5 mm.
   38.      The tube as claimed in anyone of claims 17 to claim 37, wherein the internal form is a
30 helically wound element, the element having a diameter of about 0.1 mm to about 0.4 mm.
   39.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 38, wherein the tubular body has a wall
   thickness of about 0.1 mm to about 0.2 mm.
   40.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 39, wherein the tubular body has an external
   diameter of about 3 mm to about 5 mm.

                                                     - 95
   41.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 40, wherein the tubular body is corrugated,
   the corrugations having a depth of about 0.1 mm to about 0.5 mm.
   42.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 41, wherein the tubular body is flexible as
   defined by passing the test for increase in flow resistance with bending according to ISO
 5 5367:2000(E) (Fourth edition, 2000-06-01).
   43.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 42, wherein a terminal end of the tube is
   integrated with a nasal prong, the nasal prong being adapted for insertion into a user's nare as a
   nasal interface for delivering breathing gases to a user.
   44.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 43, wherein the internal form is a
 9 conductive wire suitable for heating or sensing a property of gases within the tube.
   45.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 44, wherein the internal form is electrically
   conductive, preferably the internal form is an electrically powered heater.
   46.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 45, wherein the internal form comprises
   electrically conductive members or electrically powered heaters or sensors (e.g. a flow or
 5 temperature or humidity or pressure sensor or sensors).
   47.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 46, wherein the tube further comprises a
   heater, or an electrically powered heater (e.g. a heater wire or a heater circuit).
   48.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 47, wherein the internal form comprises of
   one or more separate components.
 9 49.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 48, wherein the internal form comprises one
   or more components.
   50.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 49, wherein the tube comprises one or more
   internal forms.
   51.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 50, wherein the ratio of pitch of the internal
25 form to outer diameter of internal form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.10 to about 0.50.
   52.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 51, wherein the ratio is about 0.20 to about
   0.35.
   53.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 52, wherein the ratio is about 0.28.
   54.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 53, wherein the ratio is about 0.29.
30 55.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 54, wherein the ratio of the internal form
   diameter (e.g. diameter of actual internal form element or member) to outer diameter of internal
   form (e.g. outer-most diameter) is about 0.02 to about 0.10.
   56.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 55, wherein the ratio is about 0.05 to about
   0.07.
35 57.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 56, wherein the ratio is about 0.06.

                                                     - 96
   58.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 57, wherein the ratio of the corrugations
   depth to the external (i.e. outer) tube diameter is about 0.05 to about 0.09.
   59.      The tube as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 58, wherein characteristics of the tubular
   body contribute to desired flexibility and/or structural support required by the tube.
 5 60.      A nasal cannula arrangement comprising:
            at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's
   nare and a gas inlet fluidly connected to the gas outlet, the or each prong being shaped to follow
   the anatomical curvature of a user's nare.
   61.      The nasal cannula as claimed in claim 60, wherein the nasal prong is shaped to avoid
 9 contact with the septum of a user at the base of a user's nose.
   62.      The nasal cannula as claimed in claim 60 or claim 61, wherein the nasal prong is shaped to
   avoid contact with the internal structure of a user's nose.
   63.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 62, wherein the nasal prong is
   shaped to substantially align the flow of breathing gas through the gas outlet with a user's upper
 5 airways.
   64.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 63, wherein the nasal prong is
   shaped to extend generally upwardly and rearwardly into a user's nares, the nasal prong having a
   curvature that includes at least two inflection points.
   65.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 64, wherein the nasal prong defines
 9 a lumen that extends between the gas inlet and the gas) outlet, the shape of the lumen changing
   from generally circular at the gas inlet to generally elliptical at the gas outlet.
   66.      The nasal cannula as claimed in claim 65, wherein the prong is shaped to maximize the
   cross-sectional area of the lumen.
   67.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 66, wherein the cannula further
25 includes a support that extends along a user's upper lip.
   68.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 67, wherein the cannula comprises
   two nasal prongs spaced symmetrically about a user's sagittal plane, the prongs extending inwardly
   below the user's nose from a base on a common support disposed along a user's upper lip.
   69.      The nasal cannula as claimed in claim 68, wherein the prongs extend from the support
30 toward the user's septum and curve around the corners of a user's nostrils upwardly and rearwardly
   into the user's nares, each prong extending along a generally inclined posterior trajectory and
   passing through two mediolateral points of inflection that orientate the gas outlet with respect to
   the user's upper airway passages.
   70.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 69, wherein the or each prong has a
35 shaped trajectory fitting the anatomical shape of the user's nostril.

                                                        - 97
   71.      The nasal cannula as claimed in claim 70, wherein in a first portion (or phase) of the or
   each prong, the trajectory moves horizontally towards the midline of the face, in a second portion
   (or phase) of the prong, the trajectory curves upwards directly into the nostril towards the crown of
   the head, in a third potion (or phase) of the prong, the trajectory rolls backwards into the head
 5 following the anatomical curvature of the nostril, and in a fourth portion (or phase), the trajectory
   tilts horizontally towards the centre of the cannula to align the flow outlet with the user's upper
   airway.
   72.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 71, wherein the or each prong has a
   cross-section that varies along the central trajectory.
 9 73.      The nasal cannula as claimed in anyone of claims 60 to 72, wherein the cross-sectional
   diameter generally decreases along the trajectory from the first portion (or phase) to the end of the
   fourth portion (or phase).
   74.      The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims 60 to 73, wherein the nasal cannula
   further comprises a contoured backing or facial pad configured to rest on a user's face.
 5 75.      The nasal cannula as claimed in claim 74, wherein the backing or facial pad is pre-formed
   to be of a contour that is substantially curved to fit a user's face or upper lip region.
   76.      The nasal cannula as claimed in any one of claims 60 to 75, wherein each prong is
   receivable of independent flow from a gas source.
   77.      A securement system for a user interface and/or a component associated with the user
 9 interface (e.g. such as a tube or tubing), the securement system comprising a two-part releasable
   attachment (or connection) arrangement, the arrangement comprises:
            a dermal patch and a user interface patch,
                     the dermal patch having a patient side and an interface side,
                              the patient side of the dermal patch being attachable to the skin of a user,
25                            (e.g. by an adhesive, generally being of a dermatologically sensitive adhesive
                              such as a hydrocolloid),
                              the interface side of the dermal patch being provided with the first part of a
                              two-part releasable attachment or connection system, and
            the user interface patch having a interface side and patient side,
30                   the patient side of the user interface patch being provided with the complimentary
                     second part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system,
                     the interface side of the user interface patch being attachable (or connectable) to
            the user interface and/or the component associated with the user interface (e.g. a tube or
            tubing).

                                                     - 98
   78.      The system as claimed in claim 77, wherein the interface side of the dermal patch has one
   of a hook or a loop, and the second part of the second patch has the other of the hook or loop,
   such that the first and second parts (and patches) are releasably attachable or connectable to each
   other.
 5 79.      The system as claimed in claim 77 or claim 78, wherein the first patch is locatable and/or
   attachable to the skin of a user's face.
   80.      The system as claimed in anyone of claims 77 to 79, wherein the user interface patch is
   locatable, or attached or attachable, or is connected to, or with, a user interface.
   81.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 80, wherein the user interface patch is
 9 formed integrally with, or forms a part of, a user interface.
   82.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 81, wherein the first part of the two-part
   releasable attachment or connection system on the dermal patch occupies less than about 90% of
   the interface side of the dermal patch.
   83.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 82, wherein the first part of the two-part
 5 releasable attachment or connection system is adhered or adherable to the user interface side of the
   dermal patch with a suitable adhesive.
   84.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 83, wherein the user side of the dermal
   patch has a dermatologically sensitive adhesive (such as a hydrocolloid for example) that attaches
   or adheres the dermal patch to a user's skin.
 9 85.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 84, wherein the dermal patch has a
   surface of sufficient area such that, the surface distributes pressure of the attachment, or adhering
   forces, across the user's skin.
   86.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 85, wherein the dermal patch is
   configured to attach or adhere to a user's face.
25 87.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 86, wherein the dermal patch is
   configured to attach or adhere to a user's face adjacent the user's upper lip and/or cheek.
   88.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 87, wherein the securement system is
   configured to receive and/or secure a nasal cannula and associated tubing, the tubing extending
   from one or both sides of a user's face.
30 89.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 88, wherein the securement system is
   configured for use with an infant or neonatal infant.
   90.     The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 89, wherein the component associated
   with the interface is a medical breathing tube.
   91.      The system as claimed in claim 90, wherein the medical breathing tube is as defined in any
35 one or more of claims 1 to 59.

                                                        - 99
    92.      The system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 91, wherein the user interface is a nasal
    cannula.
    93.      The system as claimed in claim 83, wherein the nasal cannula is as defined by any one or
    more of claims 60 to 76.
 5  94.      The securement system as claimed in any one of claims 77 to 93 wherein the first part of
    the two-part releasable attachment or connection system includes a substrate secured to, or for
    securing to, the dermal patch.
    95.      The securement system as claimed in claim 94 wherein the substrate portion includes at
    least one slit or at least one slot with areas of the substrate portion separated by the slit or slot.
 9  96.      The securement system as claimed in 95 wherein the substrate portion includes a plurality
    of slits or slots or both which together divide the substrate portion into a serpentine body.
    97.      The securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the slits and/or slots are arranged in
    the substrate such that a first set of at least one set of slits or slots extends into the substrate from
    one edge of the substrate and a second set of slits or slots extends into the substrate from the other
 5  edge of the substrate, the slits or slots of a set being interleaved with the slits or slots of the other
    set such that a path along the substrate portion from one end to another end without crossing the
    slits or slots must follow a zigzag or serpentine path much longer than a direct line between the
    ends.
    98.      A securement system as claimed in any one of claims 95 to 97 wherein a slit or slot of the
 1) plurality of slits or slots is curved.
    99.      A securement system as claimed in any one of claims 95 to 88 wherein a plurality of the
    slits or slots is curved and the curved slits or slots are arranged substantially parallel.
    100.     A securement system as claimed in any one of claims 96 to 88 wherein the slits or slots are
    arranged in a herring bone pattern extending in from the edges of the substrate portion.
25  101.     A securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the substrate is divided into separated
    portions by a serpentine slit or slot.
    102.     A securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the substrate portion is divided into
    portions by a spiral slit or slot.
    103.     A securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the substrate portion is divided into
30  sub-portions by slits or slots arranged on substantially concentric circles.
    104.     A securement system as claimed in claim 103 wherein the concentric circles are centered at
    approximately the centre of the substrate portion.
    105.     A securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the slit or slots divide the substrate
    portion into a plurality of islands, each joined to an adjacent island or islands by a narrow bridge.

                                                      - 100
    106.    A securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the substrate portion is divided into
   portions by an S shaped slit.
    107.    A securement system as claimed in claim 95 wherein the substrate portion is divided into
   portions by a T shaped slit.
 5  108.    A securement system as claimed in any one of claims 94 to 107 wherein the substrate
   portion covers at least 70% of the area of the dermal patch.
    109.    A securement system as claimed in any one of claims 100 to 108 wherein for a boundary
   defining the shortest path around the perimeter of the substrate, the substrate portion covers at
   least 80% of the area within the boundary.
 9  110.   A user interface assembly comprising:
            a securement system for the user interface and/or a component associated with the user
   interface (e.g. such as a tube or tubing), and
            a tube connected to the user interface providing at least a part of a breathing circuit for a
   user of the interface,
 5 wherein the securement system comprises a two-part releasable attachment (or connection)
   arrangement, the arrangement comprising:
            a dermal patch and a user interface patch,
                    the dermal patch having a patient side and an interface side,
                             the patient side of the dermal patch being attachable to the skin of a user,
 9                           (e.g. by an adhesive, generally being of a dermatologically sensitive adhesive
                             such as a hydrocolloid),
                             the interface side of the dermal patch being provided with the first part of a
                             two-part releasable attachment or connection system, and
            the user interface patch having a interface side and patient side,
25                  the patient side of the user interface patch being provided with the complimentary
                    second part of the two-part releasable attachment or connection system,
                    the interface side of the user interface patch being attachable (or connectable) to
            the user interface and/or the component associated with the user interface (e.g. a tube or
            tubing), and
30 wherein the tube comprises:
            a tubular body, the body defining a lumen extending between open terminal ends of the
            body,
            an internal form enclosed within the lumen and supportive of the tubular body, and
            a coating encapsulating the internal form, the coating securing the internal form to the
35          tubular body.

                                                       - 101
   111.    The interface as claimed in claim 110, wherein the interface is a nasal cannula.
   112.    The interface as claimed in claim 110 or claim 111, wherein the interface includes one or a
   pair of nasal prongs.
   113.    The interface as claimed in claim 112, wherein the interface is comprises a securement
 5 system as defined in any one or more of claims 77 to 109.
   114.    The interface as claimed in any one of claims 110 to 113, wherein the tube is a medical
   breathing tube.
   115.    The interface as claimed in claim 114, wherein the tube is as defined in any one or more of
   claims 1 to 59.
 9 116.    The interface as claimed in any one of claims 110 to 115, wherein the interface is a nasal
   cannula arrangement comprising:
           at least one nasal prong, the prong having a gas outlet adapted to be inserted into a user's
   nare and a gas inlet fluidly connected to the gas outlet,
           the at least one nasal prong comprising a backing, the backing configured to rest on a user's
 5 face,
           wherein a lip extends about at least a part of the perimeter of a rear surface of the backing,
   the rear surface configured for receiving or retaining the user interface patch,
   such that in use, the user interface patch may be releasably attachable or connectable to, or with,
   the dermal patch affixed to a user's face.
 9 117.    The interface as claimed in claim 116, wherein the lip is a barrier.
   118.    The interface as claimed in claim 116 or claim 117, wherein the lip is deformable.
   119.    The interface as claimed in any one of claims 116 to 118, wherein the lip extends at least
   about the perimeter of a region substantially adjacent to a prong associated with the backing.
   120.    The interface as claimed in any one of claims 116 to 119, wherein the lip is an endless lip
25 extending about the perimeter of the rear surface of the backing.
   121.    The interface as claimed in any one of claims 116 to 120, wherein the lip is a series of one
   or more separate lips.
   122.    The interface as claimed in claim 121, wherein the one or more separate lips are adjacent or
   adjoining or overlapping lip portions.
30 123.    The interface as claimed in any one of claims 116 to 122, wherein, in use, the lip
   substantially forms a fluid (e.g. liquid) seal, or barrier to fluid, between the rear surface of the
   backing and a cannula facing surface of the user interface patch.
   124.    The interface as claimed in any of claims 116 to 123, wherein the backing is substantially
   planar or flat or contoured (such as a pre-formed curve) backing configured to rest on a user's face.

                                                    - 102
  125.     The interface as claimed in any of claims 116 to 124, wherein the backing assists as a
  stabilizer of the prong(s) in the nare(s) of a user.
  126.     The interface as claimed in any of claims 116 to 125, wherein the at least one backing
  extends laterally outward from the at least one nasal prong, away from the septum of a user.
5 127.     The interface as claimed in any one of claims 116 to 126, wherein the at least the lip(s) is
  hydrophobic.
  128.     The interface as claimed in any one of claims 116 to 127, wherein the at least the lip(s)
  comprises at least one outer perimeter lip portion and at least one inner perimeter lip portion, each
  of said lips provided for contacting with a user's face.
9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
