                                          Abstract
     A method for generating a compound signal wave with one or more substantially
sinusoidal waveform(s) containing encoded digital information combined with a variable
phase changing waveform(s) producing a compound notched sinusoid waveform including
at least an amplitude-time modulated sine wave and at least one phase modulated wave(s).
Presence or absence of change to a wave's sinusoidal amplitude within a phase indicates a
data value. These data values can be changed within a data cycle or packet. Reduced
modulation distortion is exhibited by amplitude-time modulation techniques when
compared to classical amplitude modulation techniques. This reduced distortion in a
communications signal results in increased effective transmission lengths, reduced error
rates, higher data rates, and improved data security.

                     COMBINED AMPLITUDE-TIME MODULATION AND PHASE
                                         MODULATION
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015204973.      Australian Patent Application No. 2015204973 is a national phase application
stemming from International Application No. PCT/US2015/010104, which claims priority to
patent application Serial Number 61/924,304, filed January 7, 2014, and titled "NuSine," and
Serial Number 14/574,577, filed December 18, 2014, and entitled "Combined Amplitude-Time
and Phase Modulation". The full disclosure of these applications is incorporated herein in their
entirety by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present disclosure relates generally to data transmission, and more particularly, to
sine wave modulation techniques offering increased data transmission rates.
BACKGROUND
         Transmission of digital data is typically accomplished from point to point by
modulating a sine wave utilized as a carrier wave through modification of one or more of the
characteristic properties of the wave amplitude, frequency, and phase.
         Amplitude modulation of sine waves has classically been implemented by directly
varying the amplitude of the sine wave as a carrier wave in relationship to the source to be
transmitted. A typical signal sine wave is characterized by its amplitude, frequency, and phase.
Sine waves are used to transmit data over a host of different media. For amplitude modulated
(AM) radio, the broadcasted carrier (sine) wave is modulated with voice and a simple AM
receiver can separate the voice from the carrier signal with a diode, amplify the voice and play
it through a speaker. AM radio suffers from signal noise byproducts that limit the signal range,
quality, and reliability. Typically, modulation or other changes to a pure sine wave will cause
byproducts including harmonics, side band, reflections and electromagnetic interference.
         Direct modulation of sine waves as carrier waves produces significant noise that is
difficult to filter.  Frequency modulation techniques have typically been implemented by
encoding information in a sine wave as a carrier wave by varying the instantaneous frequency
of the wave.     Phase modulation techniques have typically been implemented by encoding
                                                  1

information on a sine wave as a carrier wave by variations in the instantaneous phase of the
carrier wave.
        Hybrid modulations schemes have been developed and include QAM, SM, and SSB.
These hybrid modulation schemes established improved data transmission but still suffered
from significant noise and other modulation byproducts that reduce the actual transmission
rates and use excess spectrum resources.
        Accordingly, improvements are sought in wave modulation encoding of data.
        Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
claims.
SUMMARY
        According to some disclosed embodiments, there is provided a method for encoding
digital data comprising generating an amplitude-time modulated sine wave by at least one of
holding and delaying an amplitude of a sine wave, generating a phase-modulated sine wave,
and mixing the amplitude-time modulated sine wave and the phase-modulated sine wave with
a ninety degree quadrature relationship, and summing the amplitude-time modulated sine wave
and the phase-modulated sine wave, to generate a compound sine wave.
        According to other disclosed embodiments, there is provided a system for encoding
digital data comprising an amplitude-time modulator for generating an amplitude-time
modulated sine wave, the amplitude time modulator configured to at least one of hold and
delay an amplitude of a sine wave to generate the amplitude-time modulated sine wave, a
phase modulator for generating a phase-modulated sine wave, and a summing module
configured to mix the amplitude-time modulated sine wave and phase-modulated sine wave
with a ninety degree quadrature relationship, and sum the amplitude-time modulated sine wave
with the phase-modulated sine wave, to generate a compound sine wave.
        While the way that the disclosed principles address the disadvantages of the prior art
will be discussed in greater detail below, in general, the disclosed principles provide novel
modulation techniques offering significantly enhanced signal-to-noise ratio (i.e., data-produced
energy over the channel noise energy), reduced bandwidth requirements, increased noise
                                                 2

immunity in recovering data at a given Bit Error Rate (BER), and improved dynamic control of
the modulation process.
         Phase-amplitude-time modulation offers significant increases in data transmission rates
compared to prior modulation methods/techniques. The new technique can be applied to any
frequency and most existing wired and wireless telecommunications infrastructure.
         In some disclosed embodiments, a method for encoding digital data is provided
including generating a sine wave for transmission at phase 0; restricting additional wave
transmission(s) from peak and zero crossing phases; generating at least one additional sine
wave during variable non-restricted phases; distorting one or more of the sine waves through
distortion of amplitude-time modulation to encode digital information; and encoding bit
content 1 to n during distortion of the sine wave through amplitude-time modulation.
         In some embodiments, the method includes transmitting phase-shifted sine waves at
density 1 to n within a cycle.
         In some embodiments, the method includes decoding the digital information from
phase variation distortions of the sine wave amplitude.
         In some embodiments, the distortion of amplitude-time modulation is accomplished via
at least one of holding and minimally delaying a sine wave's amplitude for a short period.
         In some embodiments, the distortion of amplitude-time modulation of the sine wave
approximates a step on the sine wave.
         In some embodiments, the method includes encoding one of a data value and a control
message as a phase shift of one of the sine waves. In some embodiments, the phase shift
indicates one or more of: inversion of orientation of modulation; inversion of the position of a
Most Significant Bit (MSB); predefined formatting of data bit locations; and representation of
additional data bits for a symbol.
         In some embodiments, the amplitude and phase components of one or more of the sine
waves are sent in quadrature to each other.
         In some embodiments, the method includes summing the sine waves, converting the
sine waves, and transmitting the sine waves.        In some embodiments, the method includes
receiving the sine waves and deciphering the digital information from the sine waves.
         In some disclosed embodiments, a system for encoding digital data on a sine wave is
provided.     The system includes a generator circuit configured to generate a sine wave; a
controller/counter circuit configured to restrict variable wave transmission from peak and zero
crossing phases, and generate variable wave transmissions during non-restricted phases; a
                                                  3

controller/delay circuit configured to distort amplitude-time modulation of the sine wave to
encode digital information with a bit content of 1 to n within a cycle; a summing circuit
configured to sum the first sine wave with the variable phase-shifted sine waves into a
compound sine wave; an up-converter circuit configured to convert the compound sine wave
for transmission; and a front-end circuit configured to transmit the compound sine wave.
        In some embodiments, the system includes a down-converter circuit configured to
decode the digital data from the compound sine waves.
        In some embodiments, the controller/delay circuit is configured to delay the wave
phase to produce amplitude-time distortion of the sine wave.          In some embodiments, the
amplitude-time distortion of the sine wave is exhibited as a step in a wave signature.
        In some embodiments, the controller/counter circuit is configured to generate a
plurality of sine wave carriers 1 to n at pre-determined phase location periods along the sine
wave.
        In some disclosed applications, a modulation method for combining amplitude-time
and variable phase modulation of a sine wave is provided. The amplitude-time modulation
avoids the majority of spurious emissions exhibited by legacy modulation techniques through
small phase variation distortions of the sine wave amplitude. In some implementations, the
amplitude-time modulation is described as a step-porch distortion based on small per-bit
modifications exhibited as step- or porch-like phase changes to the sine wave during
amplitude-time modulation.
        Legacy modulation schemes are typically limited to a small number of bits of
information per cycle due to noise and other modulation byproducts. In contrast, amplitude
time modulation is capable of 1 to n bits per cycle, n being limited only by the communication
hardware device architecture, and peak and crossing phases. Each collection of n bits may
comprise a bit set located at set phase angles of each wave. Additionally, more bits per cycle
can be transmitted with the reduced noise signature of amplitude-time modulation. Typically
a 'zero' value bit is represented by no change in the sine wave value and a 'one' value bit is
represented by increasing or decreasing (slightly) the sine wave amplitude at a given position
on the wave.     Classical encoding techniques such as inverting alternate bits and adaptive
altering may also be applied to amplitude-time modulation.
        Combinations of amplitude-time modulation with reduced noise can increase the
density of variable phase shifted signals and allow a plurality of sine wave carriers 1 to n to be
placed at pre-determined phase location periods along the sine wave. Placement can be at any
                                                4

location on the wave, where the value of n is depending, e.g., on device hardware architecture,
peak and crossing phases, and clock speed. The addition of variable phase modulation of sine
waves can be implemented to increase data content within a transmission. Variable phase
modulation data can also facilitate additional data bits and/or control bits to improve the
amount and security of data transmitted within a given bandwidth.
        The amplitude-time modulated sine wave is combined with the 1 to n degrees of
variable phase modulation sine wave(s) to form a compound signal wave for communication
purposes. The compound signal wave can be formatted, modulated, and transmitted over most
any form of communication system. The compound signal wave can then be demodulated and
deciphered as typical communications data.           Any combination of wired and wireless
communications system may benefit from the Phase-amplitude-time modulation techniques.
        Phase-amplitude-time modulation can be employed with classical electronic hardware
utilizing lists and look up tables, and with custom devices or software solutions in various
applications.
        Accordingly,      the  disclosed phase-amplitude-time    modulation   techniques     offer
significantly enhanced signal-to-noise ratio, reduced bandwidth requirements, increased noise
immunity, and improved control of the modulation process.
        Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Embodiments will now be described by way of example only with reference to the
accompany drawings in which:
        Fig. 1 illustrates a sine wave with digital information encoded through amplitude-time
modulation (ATM);
        Fig. 2 illustrates positive cycle ATM encoding options;
        Fig. 3 illustrates negative cycle ATM encoding options;
        Fig. 4 illustrates an 8 bit per symbol ATM signal;
        Fig. 5 illustrates the relationship between the ATM channel and phase modulated
channel signals;
        Fig. 6 illustrates a combiner for combining ATM and phase modulation signals;
                                                 5

        Fig. 7 illustrates a block diagram of a modulator circuit for generating a modulated sine
wave carrier signal;
        Fig. 8 is a block diagram of a frequency up converter for communicating a sine wave
carrier signal;
        Fig. 9 is a block diagram of a frequency down converter for communicating a sine
wave carrier signal;
        Fig. 10 is a block diagram of a modulator circuit, featuring individually modulated sine
wave carriers with outputs mixed together to form a compound signal wave;
        Fig. 11 is a block diagram of a demodulator circuit for extracting encoded information
from a modulated sine wave;
        Fig. 12 is a block diagram of a demodulator circuit with n-multiple phase modulation
streams;
        Fig. 13 is a drawing of a transmit/receive communication system with amplitude-time
encoding;
        Fig. 14 is a block diagram of an interface circuit for implementing a software
configurable method for generating a compound signal wave.
        Fig. 15 illustrates a prior art QAM 256 constellation;
        Fig. 16 illustrates a prior art QAM 1024 constellation; and
        Fig. 17 illustrates an implementation of the phase channel configured to designate the
quadrant value and the amplitude-time channel to provide an 8 bit data value for each quadrant.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        The following description is of exemplary embodiments only, and is not intended to
limit the scope, applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather, the following
description is intended to provide a convenient illustration for implementing various
embodiments. As will become apparent, various changes may be made in the function and
arrangement of the elements described in these embodiments without departing from the scope
of this disclosure. It should be appreciated that the description herein may be adapted to be
employed with alternatively configured devices having different components, modulation /
demodulation mechanisms and the like and still fall within the scope of this disclosure. Thus,
the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of
limitation.
                                                 6

         Reference in the specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" is intended to
indicate that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one disclosed embodiment. The appearances of the phrase
"in one embodiment" or "an embodiment" in various places in the specification are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
         In accordance with various disclosed embodiments, Phase-amplitude-time modulation
of sine waves offers reduced noise and increased data densities. The disclosed principles may
be used to efficiently encode data for transmission over communications systems.
         With reference to Figure 1, a low-distortion, digitally synthesized sine wave is
illustrated with data imposed or encoded on this sine wave using a step function characterized
by the presence or absence of data bits in the data stream. The digital information can be
encoded through amplitude-time modulation displayed as step-porch type wave distortions. In
various embodiments, this step function is referred to as Amplitude-Time Modulation
("ATM") or the ATM Component. The step-porch distortions encoding information mitigates
signal distortions compared to legacy AM signals.            Additional benefits of the reduced
distortions include larger word size (1 to n), more data per cycle, and efficient use of the
available spectrum
         A representative sine wave can be generated using a sine lookup table, imposed on a D
to A converter.
         The novel modulation techniques described herein are referred to as Phase-amplitude
time modulation.       Phase-amplitude-time modulation further introduces a varying phase,
quadrature signal ("Phase Component") that allows data instantiated on the signal to be
programmable by the user. Phase-amplitude-time modulation may thus be described in terms
of the ATM Component and the Phase Component.
         The primary data channel in Phase-amplitude-time modulation is the ATM modulated
sine wave or the ATM Component. In telecommunication, each cycle is commonly referred to
as a "Symbol". While, 16 bits per symbol data rates have been achieved on this channel using
ATM, higher data rates are anticipated as the technology is further developed. The orientation
of the ATM modulation, or the way that the data bit is represented on the ATM sine wave, is
fully programmable by the user.         Figures 2 and 3 illustrate options that can selectively
represent either a data value of 1 or 0. Again, the number of bits per symbol, from 1 to n, is
variable and selectable by the user, as is the location and orientation of the data.
                                                  7

         At a receiver, raw bits of an n-bit word can then be separated from the sine wave, with
peaks and valleys representing 0 and 1 data bits controlled by preamble or control word
instructions. In addition to the orientation and the number of bits per symbol (Cycle), the
location of the bit on the cycle, i.e., the angle on the wave where the bit resides, is also
programmable. This raw data can be normalized, conditioned and stored as appropriate.
         With reference to FIG. 4, the ATM bit orientation may be selected to represent the
value to be encoded. An associated receiver may be informed of this configuration to properly
determine the intended value. Finally, the duration of the ATM modulation at each location is
also programmable. Note that the bit duration may not overlap the start of the subsequent bit.
         Turning now to description of the Phase Component of Phase-amplitude-time
modulation, unlike the ATM channel/component that contains actual data values, the Phase
channel/component is a "representation "of either a data value or a control message. This
channel in the Phase-amplitude-time modulation scheme is created by the introduction of a
phase shift to the ATM channel by summing the two waves. This additional channel allows
the value of the phase shift to be used as a way of either adding additional data bits to the
symbol or sending control signals between the transmitter and the receiver regarding the
format of the ATM channel data. Thus, the Phase Channel component enables a Dynamically
Controllable Physical Layer Modulation. For example, an introduction of a specific phase shift
could indicate to the receiver that subsequent ATM channel modulation will indicate that: the
orientation of the modulation will be inverted until further notice; the position of the Most
Significant Bit (MSB) will be opposite of the current configuration until further notice; the data
bit locations will change to a predefined format until further notice; a custom configuration
created by the user will be in effect until further notice; or future phase information will
represent additional data bits for the symbol until further notice.
         In some implementations, the dynamic nature of control of the Phase Channel
characteristics of the modulation could even be used to dynamically alter the modulation
characteristics on each packet boundary or even each Symbol.
         The number of data bits represented by this channel will be configuration dependent,
e.g., depending on division of the phase channel into four possible values, 45, 90, 135 and 180
degrees of shift. In this use case, the user can add two additional data bits per symbol, 450 = 00,
900= 01, 1350 = 10 and 1800 = 11. These bits are detected and added to the data transmitted on the
ATM channel during the same symbol. Obviously, more possible phase values allow for more
data bits.
                                                  8

        This channel may also be used as a means of syncing the data being transmitted with a
specific shift representing the beginning or end of a data byte, word or even packet. This
allows for more actual data payload efficiency by not requiring the extensive preamble control
bits to be     sent to coordinate      the transmission as     in other modulation techniques.
Implementation of these various features can create customized proprietary protocols or to
satisfy unique application requirements.        This capability creates additional benefits in the
effective data rate of the system utilizing this technique.
        With reference to FIG. 5, the relationship of the ATM and Phase Channels is illustrated
in which the Phase Channel is in quadrature (90 degrees out of phase) with the ATM Channel.
The values of these two waves are independently encoded. The combination of phase and
amplitude characteristics of the Phase channel reflects the data / control information for the
given symbol.
        With reference to FIG. 6, the combined data value of the symbol encoding is referred to
as the complex Modulated Signal. Figure 4 represents the two channels being created by the
technology. The top channel is the ATM (Amplitude Time Modulation) channel. This is the
primary data channel.       This uses the presence or absence of the modulation described in
Figures 1, 2 and 3 to encode 1 to n data bits per symbol on this data channel.
        The bottom channel is the Phase Channel.         This channel adds either additional bits
and/or control bits to the technology.     The phase and/or amplitude of the Phase Channel is
modulated to represent the desired information, or data bits, to be encoded on the signal.    This
combination of phase and amplitude modulation is used to represent n number of values on this
channel.    The number of bits per symbol on this channel is limited by the ability of the
transmitting and receiving circuitry to respond rapidly enough to create and recognize the data
values being encoded / decoded.
         The two channels are in quadrature with each other or, in other words, 90 degrees out
of phase with each other. The combining of these two signals creates the complex signal that
contains the transmitted data and/or controls from the transmitting device to the receiving
device.
        In some implementations, data may be encoded solely in the ATM channel, i.e., with a
00 phase shift or 0 bits of data on the Phase Channel.
        Turning now to description of implementations of transmission of the Phase
Amplitude-Time Modulated Signal, the modulated sine wave is sent to a gain block to produce
a harmonic component, e.g., at the 3 dB compression point. The block acts as a soft mixer,
                                                   9

mixing the data rate and the sine wave carrier rate to produce energy at the 3rd, 5th, and 7th
harmonics of the carrier.
         Another unique feature of the Phase-amplitude-time modulation technology is that a
signal may be transmitted using primarily the harmonic and its AM and PM components. The
generated signal energy is put through a band pass filter centered at the harmonic component
frequency. All but the harmonic is filtered out, as this is the spectrum having the AM and PM
sawtooth energy components necessary to recover the transmitted information. These
components are complementary to each other and symmetrically opposite to each other in the
same time slot.
         Conventional forms of modulation in use today are typically in-band or sideband
energy producing, i.e., the energy produced is in the channel along with the noise and other by
products produced. This typically causes a reduction in the SNR or Eb/No.
         In contrast, Phase-amplitude-time modulation produces little to no in-band noise
products since it uses primarily the energy in the harmonic portion of the spectrum. All the
sideband and carrier energy is removed with the band pass filter centered at the harmonic
frequency. For example, if the carrier frequency is 100 kHz and has 9 bits (or steps) per
vertical slope, the data rate will be 18 times the carrier rate or 1.8 Mb/s. A Gaussian distributed
concentration of energy is produced at the harmonic frequency and has a unit value amplitude
and phase, crossing at the bit rate. This energy is then demodulated with a DSP (Digital Signal
Processing) engine or an equivalent circuit implementation that is configured to act as a phase
and amplitude detector for both the ATM and Phase channels.
         The theoretical noise floor limit, known as kTB, for 100 kHz is -124 dBm at room
temperature, but the peak power of the data is practically -70 dBm. This produces SNR of
greater than 50 dB RMS.
         Note: This data rate would normally require an Eb/No of near 100 dB for a BER of
10e-8. However, since Phase-amplitude-time modulation produces no in-channel noise or
artifacts and sends only the difference data bits, it takes less than 70 dB Eb/No.
         Turning to description of reception of Phase-amplitude-time modulated signals, the
harmonic carrier, i.e., the harmonic itself, plus the energy associated around the carrier, is input
into a quadrature detector. This can be done using a pair of double balanced mixers with a 90
degree phase shift in the local oscillator, creating an IQ demodulator. Locking the local
oscillator on the harmonic divided by value of the harmonic, we now have time-slot data
information coming out of the quadrature and incident ports of the double balanced mixers, or
                                                  10

IQ demodulator. When the phase and amplitude components cross each other a "1" or "0" is
output depending on whether the data has been inverted.
         Another way to configure a detector is to take the original frequency of the carrier
wave, input it into a double balanced mixer, and input another sine wave without data in the
local oscillator port at the same frequency. This configuration serves as a differential detector
since the data output of the double balanced mixer is the difference between those two carriers.
Thus any phase shift or amplitude shift in either one of those carriers can be used to produce a
data stream. The carriers and sideband components can be discarded, reducing noise and
spectrum requirements. In this implementation, only the harmonic distortion component for the
first group of carriers is used. If more than one sine wave is passed down stream, only one is
used as the clock, e.g., usually the top or bottom sine wave.
         In a multi-channel environment, only one of the harmonics is sent. While some
examples are described herein in terms of a third harmonic, any suitable harmonic may be
used. As long as the signals all begin at the same phase, one signal can be used for a frame
clock for all channels as in ATM modes when the signals are again phase coherent. Phase
amplitude-time modulation thus is more efficient moving from single channel to multi-channel
use.
         One of the primary advantages of Phase-amplitude-time modulation technology is the
capacity to communicate more information than current technologies in a given bandwidth.
Currently, commercially available forms of modulation can achieve around 10 bits per Hertz
over existing, industry-standard infrastructure. Legacy modulation technologies often sacrifice
bit error rate to increase information rate per Hertz, with industry standards requiring about 10
to the minus 8, bit error rate (BER 1Oe-8).
         Fig. 7 is a block diagram of a controller/delay circuit or modulator circuit for
generating a modulated sine wave carrier signal. The displayed block diagram is the functional
basis for implementing amplitude-time modulation.           While classical block functions are
shown, other signal processing techniques such as programmed micros, digital signal
processors, state machines are also appropriate to this task. The sine wave look up table (LUT)
drives a D/A converter.      The phase angles 0 to 360 degrees are quantized to n number of
discrete values. A multi-bit counter continuously counts through these discrete values at a
clock rate. The output of the multi-bit counter addresses the sine-function lookup table that
provides the digital encoded sine-function value for each quantized phase angle. The D/A
converter outputs a voltage proportional to the sine of the discrete phase angle at the input of
                                                 11

the lookup table.    The clock generator is shown driving the multi-bit counter with a delay
element and latch the value when high being transparent when the value is low. The output
drives the lookup table. The lookup table drives the D/A converter. Modulation implementing
the step-porch amplitude-time modulation techniques by holding input to the lookup table for
the desired number of clock pulses equal to time interval implementing the phase period
desired.
        Information to be encoded is introduced to a data input register. Data input size is n
depending on device hardware and clock speeds.         The data input register is clocked by the
memory. The data are preloaded and initial data bits appear on the output (serial) of the data
input register. If the counter and data input register as they appear at the And function both
contain a value of 1 the output of the D/A converter will remain constant. During operation the
counter continues and the output sequentially addresses the contents of the memory.         D/A
output will only change when a difference in value between counter and register are detected.
Many variations can be employed to implement the encoding of digital information that
minimizes signal distortions while maximizing data throughput. The bit rate controller can be
adaptively configured to alter the bit rate or phase intervals to adapt to the communication
channel conditions. Additionally, the bit rate controller can be adapted to implement security
and control functions for the data transmission.
        Fig. 8 is a block diagram of a frequency up converter for communicating a sine wave
carrier signal. A local oscillator drives one input of a balanced mixer. A modulated sine wave
carrier set is mixed from the other input of the balanced mixer. The output of the balanced
mixer is connected to a band pass filter. The output of the band pass filter is ready to be
transmitted through the appropriate driver circuitry.
        Fig. 9 is a block diagram of a frequency down converter for communicating a sine
wave carrier signal. A local oscillator drives an input of a balanced mixer. Received RF input
is mixed into the other input of the balanced mixer. The output of the balanced mixer is passed
to a detector for deciphering and conditioning.
        Fig. 10 is a block diagram of modulator circuits, featuring individually modulated sine
wave carriers with outputs mixed together to form a compound signal wave.            As shown a
modular circuit(s) (MOD.1,        MOD.2, MOD.3,        and MOD.4)     represent amplitude-time
modulated sine wave carriers.      These modular circuits are fed into a summer/combiner for
mixing into a composite waveform for conditioning, transmission and receiving/deciphering.
The summer/combiner outputs are connected in serial or parallel to a data convoluter for
                                                 12

transmission. The positioning of variable sine wave carriers can be varied by lists, look up
tables, or software control as shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 11. While 4 modular circuits are shown
up to n circuits may be employed limited only by hardware device architecture, and clock
speed.
        The Fig. 11 is a block diagram of a demodulator circuit for extracting encoded
information from a modulated sine wave. Initially, incoming modulated sine wave carrier is
input to the input signal conditioning block.     Various signal conditioning functions will be
utilized within the signal conditioning block as appropriate to the type of transmission. Types
of transmission include but are not limited to twisted pair, wireless, microwave, or differential
lines.  The output of the signal conditioning block is connected to a bandpass filter.       The
bandpass filter is typically centered on the carrier frequency with a  Q>  100. The signal from
the bandpass filter is amplified by the Amp block and inserted into the balanced mixer block.
The mixer block mixes the amplified signal with a numerically controlled oscillator, NCO
block. The numerically controlled oscillator frequency and phase are set to the frequency and
phase of one of the amplitude-time modulated sine waves within the passband of the bandpass
filter.
        Fig. 12 is a block diagram of a demodulator circuit with n-multiple phase modulation
streams. Shown is a plurality of modulated carriers within a communications channel with
separate demodulation of each carrier to decipher the encoded data.          A collection of six
balanced mixers are shown but n mixers can be implemented with the limitation of hardware
device architecture, and clock speed.      The input line(s) feed all balanced mixers.      Each
balanced mixer has a unique connection to a numerically controlled oscillator multi-frequency
sine wave generator. The generator's output lines transmit at the specific frequency of the
carrier wave data are to be extracted from. The mixer(s) output is the information from the
carrier wave and is also connected to a data convoluter. The data convoluter reassembles the
digital data from the individual amplitude-time modulated sine wave signal(s). The incoming
carrier waves can be of different frequencies and data rates by utilizing adaptable control
information.
        Fig. 13 is a drawing of a transmit/receive communication system with amplitude-time
encoding. As an example a RF wireless communications end to end block diagram is shown.
Each station has a user interface for controlling communications functions. Additionally, each
has a modulator/demodulator function for encoding/decoding of signals.         Also, each has a
transceiver to modulate/demodulate the carrier signals to be transmitted/received.     Any final
                                                13

stage conditioning and transceiver function is appropriate to the modulation communications
techniques.
         Fig. 14 is a block diagram of an interface circuit for implementing a software
configurable method for generating a compound signal wave. The present block diagram is a
hardware function that can be software configured to adapt to most any communications
system. The interface circuit is implemented with a control plane that is a collection of CPUs
(number n) interfacing with the I/F signal controlled by a GPU. The GPU represents the data
plane and operates the transform receive and transmit functions. The control plane and data
plane interface to a FPGA that contains custom I/O logic and buffers.            The FPGA also
facilitates a system interface.   The FPGA also interfaces to the modulator/demodulator for
signal transmission preparation. The modulator/demodulator also interfaces to an RF interface
for signal transmit and receive functions. The illustrated CPU / GPU implementation may be
replaced with a Digital Signal Processor (DSP) that is programmed to perform the same
functions.
         An important specification in any modulation technology is the Signal-to-Noise Ratio
(SNR). This is the required signal strength, measured in decibels (DBs), above the ambient
noise and often stated in relationship with the BER realized at that level. In other words, with
a given signal strength above the noise, the modulation technology can reliably produce a
specific BER.
         Symbol Error Rate (SER) takes into consideration the number of bits per symbol. A
stronger signal may be required to produce a lower BER.      In the case of 256 QAM, this would
be 8 Bits per symbol, so the SER is calculated by dividing the BER by the 8 bits per symbol.
The more complex modulation schemes are typically more susceptible to noise.           Thus, the
signal must be increasingly higher than the noise in order to be reliably detected and correctly
interpreted. When the receiver incorrectly interprets the transmitted signal, it can implement a
forward error-correcting algorithm in software based on the error detection and correction
scheme being used or it can request that the transmitter resend the data. Both of these options
can negatively affect the performance of the network that is relying on the technology. Thus, it
is advantageous to produce the lowest BER at the smallest possible SNR.
         While QAM (QAM16, QAM64 up to QAM1024) is currently considered the best
conventional modulation, its inherent limitation is that QAM generates artifacts and noise in
the channels. With QAM, any attempt to increase the signal to noise ratio by amplifying the
signal, amplifies the noise by the same factor. Therefore, Shannon's Limit is always reached.
                                                14

Thus, the smallest QAM step generally has to be greater than 6dB above the noise in the
channel. If there is noise in the channel, it is necessary to amplify the signal before
encountering the noise. In fact, QAM's limitations also apply to other existing forms of
modulation, as they also use in-band, sideband, or related-component types of modulation.
         Amplitude Modulation (AM) is in-band and has two side bands, although the carrier is
not needed, so the carrier and one of the side bands are filtered out in the receiver, leaving only
a single sideband to provide transmitted information. While Frequency Modulation (FM) has
some advantages in terms of immunity to noise, it does not conserve spectrum.
         QAM is generally considered superior to PCM, BPSK, AFSK and other forms of
modulation. QAM employs quadrature movement of the sine wave and an amplitude step of
each sign wave. Depending on the rate of the sign wave, there is an AM component shifted
forward or backward in phase with an in-band noise generating effect. Besides the movement
of the sign wave, which generates FM or PM, QAM employs an amplitude step with its own
artifacts. These two elements combined generate random noise inside the channel. Thus,
conventional modulation schemes employ sidebands or other artifact-generating data transport
methods.
         For example, an AM radio frequency of 1 MHz transmitting music, it is possible to use
up to half of the 1 MHz, or 500 KHz, without breaking Nyquist limits. If we exceed that, there
would be no spectral difference between the information we are sending and the carrier we
are sending it on. If that limit is exceeded, sideband products are generated.
         In contrast, Phase-amplitude-time modulation discards or filters out the carrier,
sidebands, and in-channel extraneous elements prior to transmission. Thus, Phase-amplitude
time modulation can break the Nyquist limit when more than 16 steps are modulated onto the
sine wave. With Phase-amplitude-time modulation, using the same 1MHz carrier, it is feasible
to support a 16 Megabit per second data rate, surpassing the Nyquist limit (e.g., modulating a
16 MHz carrier within 1 MHz). However, this is not a carrier at 16 MHz but a data stream.
The data stream can be one of several types of frequencies, e.g., 101, 001, and 010, with
additional combinations up to the channel width limit.
         In a particular embodiment, a Phase-amplitude-time            modulated sine wave is
synthesized using a 100 KHz carrier and a numerically controlled oscillator (NCO). A D to A
converter is used to set the bit step-size, e.g., to the least significant bit or the next to least
significant bit. Selective toggling of "ones" "zeros" generates steps or porches in the sine
wave, referred to as ATM. Thus, the steps or porches represent either "ones" or "zeros"
                                                 15

generated in every other bit location, and every other timeslot location, so each timeslot is
different. These steps and porches are typically only generated on the more vertical parts of the
sine wave. For example, in the case of a 1 MHz sine wave there can be 16 steps, 8 bits on each
of the more linear portions of the vertical slopes.
        The Phase-amplitude-time modulation ATM Channel, with only 8 bits per symbol, is
equivalent in data throughput to QAM256.            Again, the data transmitted using the ATM
Channel is the actual value of the data, requiring only one modulated wave, and not a
representation of the data as in QAM256, which requires two modulated waves to convey the
same data value.     FIG. 15 illustrates a QAM256 "constellation" in which each point in the
constellation represents an eight bit binary value between 0 and 255.
        With reference to FIG. 16, each quadrant of a QAM 1024 constellation map contains
256 points. The challenges that exist with QAM 256 become even more pronounced with
QAM 1024. For example, accurately identifying an intended point on the constellation and
determining its exact data value requires that two waves be accurately measured and
interpreted at the symbol frequency. Accuracy is critical to maintain the BER or SER of the
system, to reduce receiver processing, or worse and avoid the need for data retransmission.
        In a particular Phase-amplitude-time modulation use case, the Phase Channel is used to
designate one of four values, provide increased data throughput. This use case leveraged the
reliable data transmission characteristics of the ATM Channel and implements Phase Channel
data to quadruple (4X) the effective data throughput. Analogous to QAM 1024, the value on
the Phase Channel is associated with a quadrant, except that the actual data value is encoded on
the ATM Channel wave, while the Phase Channel designates the "quadrant" location on the
"constellation."
        With reference to FIG. 17, a QAM 1024 equivalent throughput implementation of
Phase-amplitude-time modulation could be envisioned as a superior solution.       This is similar
to QAM 1024 but with the benefits of the Phase-amplitude-time modulation. This use case
underscores the power that the Phase Channel brings to the ATM Channel by encoding just
two bits of data on the Phase Channel and only 8 bits per symbol on the ATM Channel, a
QAM 1024 equivalent data rate can be realized with Phase-amplitude-time modulation.            In
addition, the improved SNR and spectral utilization of the Phase-amplitude-time modulation is
maintained. Phase-amplitude-time modulation throughput can be proportionally increased by
adding additional bits to the Phase Channel.
                                                 16

        These Phase Channel values can also be looked at as "channels" for the ATM data. In
other words, three bits of Phase Channel data results in eight unique "channels" for the ATM
data.
        The ATM Channel signal is sent into a gain block and the input to the gain block is
adjusted to achieve the compression point of the peak-to-peak value of the sine wave. The
compression point is the non-linear portion of an amplifier where, as the input signal is
increased, the output does not follow the input level. While Phase-amplitude-time modulation
technology is currently capable of using any one of the 32 harmonics, it is described herein
with a focus on the third harmonic. Use of a particular selected harmonic is a programmable
feature depending on the use case and the requirements of the application. The compression
point of interest is the point where the entire third harmonic carrier and component information
is located. Therefore, if the number of steps has distorted the sine wave by 30-40 dB, a third
harmonic carrier 30 dB down from the fundamental frequency carrier amplitude will result.
The input to the gain block is further adjusted so that the associated step components are equal
to the sine wave at 3 times the carrier rate.
        Adjusting the compression point described above within the amplifier (e.g., to about 2
or 3 dB of linear compression), the third harmonic can be used as a clock. The components
around the third harmonic are the resulting data symbols. The Gaussian distributed
concentration of energy (or data in this case) is equal in amplitude which can be
advantageously used to optimize the Eb/No ratio, i.e., the signal energy in the bits over the
noise floor. The steps of the Phase-amplitude-time modulated sine wave represent two
components, amplitude and phase. When those two components cross they appear as Fourier
components around the third harmonic with a Gaussian distribution.
        In conventional modulation, like FM transmission, the modulation rate of the signal is
the frequency offset of the carrier being sent. The amount of deviation in frequency is the
volume of the modulating signal. In phase modulation a carrier deviates in phase based on the
modulating signal. With Phase-amplitude-time modulation, using the harmonic, there is not a
volume component, only the rate that is no longer in the channel spectrum, which results in a
channel clear of modulation-produced noise.
        The phase component, which is part of the energy of the Fourier component, is not
being sent, and therefore, does not require spectrum. In the Phase-amplitude-time modulation
scheme, only the amplitude step requires spectrum around the harmonic. Phase can be
recovered in two ways.         The first method is by quadrature detection of the amplitude
                                                  17

component. Locking onto the harmonic, the correction for the lock also produces the phase
component. When the amplitude and the phase cross a data bit is output in the detector.
         With Phase-amplitude-time modulation, there is only one amplitude step without
fractional components that produce energy down to the noise floor. For example, a 100 KHz
signal with 16 steps per sine wave would result in 1.6 Mb/s of data running through an 85 KHz
channel (KTB for 85 KHz is negative 125dBm). Therefore, transmitting that signal at "0"
dBm, a signal-to-noise ratio of 125dB is obtained.
         Comparing Phase-amplitude-time modulation to other modulation schemes, using
Shannon's limit, Phase-amplitude-time modulation produces a channel clear of in-band
artifacts, having a data capability considerably more than would normally be sent, such as our
1.6 Mb in an 85 KHz channel. As a result, Phase-amplitude-time modulation has a much
greater signal-to-noise ratio than any other form of modulation.
         Phase-amplitude-time modulation offers a level of immunity to noise because the
amplitude and phase components are being sent in quadrature to each other. It is the crossover
point of those two components that are detected for data in the ATM Channel. Since noise does
not shift in phase, typically the noise threshold itself can be approached, with approximately a
2 dB signal-to-noise ratio, and still detect the data. Other conventional forms of modulation
may require more than a 12 dB SINAD or 6dB signal-to-noise for equal bit error rates (BER).
Significant data corruption requires resending data multiple times to achieve a usable BER
such as 10e-8. Noise in the channel typically reduces the signal-to-noise ratio, including the
factors of noise floor kTB, insertion loss, amplifier noise, and the various artifacts produced.
Thus, the usable signal power cannot be raised without also raising the noise in the channel.
         However, since Phase-amplitude-time modulation sends only the transient components,
they can be sent at a very high level, resulting in a large Eb/No ratio, e.g., data can easily be
detected even when the SNR is only 2 dB Eb/No.
         The third harmonic can carry three times the phase data, generating as a digitally
synthesized oscillator at the fundamental. The oscillator will generate distortion while
generating the sine wave, depending, e.g., on the frequency of the clock, step size, and how
monotonic the D to A converter is (whether it is an R2R ladder or other type). With an 8-bit
R2R ladder or D to A converter, 160 dB per Hertz from the oscillator can be achieved at 10
kHz from the third harmonic carrier frequency.
         In the typical case, the third harmonic has some random sideband and numerical noise,
but it is 160 dB down at 10 KHz from the third harmonic carrier frequency. This is below the
                                                 18

threshold of the amplitude of the Fourier components at the third order intercept point (IP3).
As a result, the third harmonic noise is not a factor.
        Turning now to description of multi-carrier effects, most advanced modulation schemes
are used in multi-carrier environments, where noise is generated from many sources.
Nevertheless, Phase-amplitude-time       modulation    substantially maintains noise immunity
whether from transmitting its own data or from crossover noise generated by other carriers.
However, some forms of modulation like Pulse Code Modulation (PCM), PSK31, AFSK and
various others have non-return-to-zero components that can occasionally interfere with the
time slot Phase-amplitude-time modulation is trying to receive. For example, in the case of
television frequencies with many headroom components and other artifacts in the channel,
there may be interference encountered at the rate of Phase-amplitude-time modulation's phase,
causing the bit error rate to degrade. However, it is estimated that the maximum incidence of
these events is about 16%, because Phase-amplitude-time modulation's Gaussian concentration
of energy is 68% of the total energy. The remaining 16% is outside the complementary area of
that part of the Gaussian concentration of energy. Statistically, the most interference Phase
amplitude-time modulation would encounter would be 16% of the total time. Therefore, Phase
amplitude-time modulation is fairly immune to noise.
        The component energy being used is not generating additional noise in that portion of
the spectrum around the given harmonic.             There are also inter-modulation   distortion
components and other sideband-producing noise elements that are eliminated with a channel
band-pass filter.
        In a particular example, if a band-pass filter has a 100 KHz pass band for transmission
at 1.6 Megabits in a 100 KHz channel, a Signal-to-Noise (SN) ratio of approximately 80 dB is
required based on Shannon's limit. With a theoretical noise floor of -124 dBm, the minimum
signal power would be only -44 dBm with Phase-amplitude-time modulation. If necessary, the
100 KHz channel bandwidth can be reduced and increasing the signal to noise ratio from 10 dB
to 20 dB results in double the data rate usable in the channel.
        Again, when using the third harmonic, Phase-amplitude-time modulation essentially
discards the fifth and seventh harmonic data and the two sidebands generated at one of the
three frequencies where the data may exist, plus or minus the carrier frequency used. Although
two concentrations of energy exist, they are not transmitted because they are filtered in the
transmitter. These would simply add unnecessary energy to the channel and are not needed
                                                 19

         The Phase-amplitude-time      modulated signal is a single amplitude that can be
transmitted at any desired power level. This is the energy associated with the harmonic. If
random data is transmitted, it is a Gaussian concentration of energy (sine x / x), which can be
placed on either sideband, or in the center of the third harmonic. This is accomplished by the
symmetry of either the porches or steps during generation of the sine wave. Preferably, the
energy concentration is placed on the high-frequency side of the harmonic carrier, with time
coherence between the energy, amplitude, and carrier being sent. The amplitude of the
harmonic carrier is a function of the total distortion of the sine wave itself, so it is not
necessary to transmit that either for detection in the receiver.
         Phase-amplitude-time modulation provides the flexibility of using the least significant
bit, the next to least, or other combination, to generate the step size on the sine wave. The wave
can be paused, and the chosen bit toggled as necessary. In addition, a bit from a previous
location can be toggled in the lookup table, in advance of the current location, so a step or a
porch is created. This accommodates many possible combinations.
         Thus, not only can the associated concentration of energy be maximized around the
harmonic, it is also possible to alternate between data combinations and create two additional
concentrations of energy. Multiple channel combinations of bits can be transmitted. Trinary,
dual binary, and many other combinations are also possible. As an added security benefit, these
combinations can be made very complex so they cannot be decoded without the proper key
sequence.
         A significant aspect of Phase-amplitude-time modulation is the conservation of
spectrum. Phase-amplitude-time modulation uses spectrum when sending a change in data
value, which shows up in the harmonic as intermodulation distortion products. These are
Fourier components that result in transmitted energy. Since only data changes are being sent,
and typical data is random, only 50% of the normally required energy is necessary to transmit.
Therefore, the total power spectral density required is half. If it is desirable to send every bit,
every other bit may be inverted. As a result, nearly all of this data is symmetrical and it
becomes a classic Gaussian distribution of energy around the harmonic. However, it comprises
only one half of the bandwidth energy normally required.
         Aspects of the disclosed embodiments are applicable to satellite communications,
offering greater data throughput with decreased noise effects. As a test example, a 100 KHz
sine wave, with a 300 KHz data third harmonic, was used to send 1.6 Mb of data in 85 KHz.
Shannon's Limit can be estimated by: the log base2 of SNR is .332 times the SNR value
                                                  20

expressed in dB. Assuming the SNR is 120 dB and ignoring the plus 1 and the numeric value,
this value could be considered if the power level of the carrier were +30 dBm or one watt, as
the resulting third harmonic carrier would be at approximately 0 dBm, and the theoretical
noise floor would be -125 dBm. Converting the power ratio in dB to the numeric value
and adding the plus 1, the result is SNR in dB times .332 times 85 KHz, which represents the
total Shannon's limit given those parameters in Mb per second. In this case, it would result in
3.0101 Mbps. Dividing by 85 KHz, according to Shannon, the highest theoretical throughput
possible would appear to be 35.41 bits per Hertz.
        With a 30 dB amplifier, the channel has 120 dB of free dynamic range above the noise
floor, and the noise in the channel is amplified by 30dB. Subtracting 30dB from 120dB, the
total SNR is reduced to 90dB. Such factors compound and degrade the 39.84 bits per HZ to
about 30 bits per Hz, e.g., the practical limit. While standard forms of modulation are severely
affected by these factors, Phase-amplitude-time modulation allows data transport without some
of these limiting factors having a significant effect.
        Aspects of the disclosed embodiments are further applicable to down-hole data
transmission, i.e., transmission of various sensor data, imaging data, etc., during subterranean
drilling and exploration. The noise immunity, data speed, and security aspects of the Phase
amplitude-time Modulation could be particularly advantageous in this application.
        Phase-amplitude-time Modulation Receiver Implementations
        One receiver structure embodiment is a direct conversion or zero if the receiver filtered
to receive only the harmonic and its components. In the 300 KHz example, such a receiver
would look for the real and quadrature imagined components of the phase. The receiver would
lock on the third harmonic, divide by three, take the 2 outputs and check them for phase and
amplitude where they cross. Since there is only one amplitude step size, the amplitude is a
function of the power in the total energy concentration. If it is zero dBm, we would be
detecting 200 millivolts. Noise would have to increase to 190 millivolts before it would
interfere with data detection. The fact that the noise is not coherent with the data is also unique
to Phase-amplitude-time modulation.
        Although not required, a cost-effective method of detection is a Digital Signal
Processing (DSP) engine, which can provide more complex features with Phase-amplitude
time modulation/demodulation. A universal DSP engine for Phase-amplitude-time modulation
has been demonstrated for a range of applications.
        IQ Demodulator Implementation
                                                 21

        In some implementations, the receiver includes an IQ demodulator similar to those used
in cell phones. The IQ demodulator can be used to set the clock divider by three and decipher
time slots to determine when to look for data and when not to look for data. The DSP requires
a math model to efficiently decipher data without wasting clock cycles. The IQ demodulator is
an incident and quadrature detector that has a ninety-degree phase shift between two double
balanced mixers. The input signal drives the R ports of the double balanced mixers. The local
oscillator is generated at the carrier rate of the third harmonic. The ports are in quadrature to
each other.
        As a result, when an output appears at one port, the quadrature image appears at the
other port. One output represents phase and the other represents amplitude. Since they appear
as opposite saw tooth waves, where they cross each other, complementary values result in a
one that takes the form of a clearly defined amplitude or energy pulse. It is easily detectable,
even when combined with impairments such as noise, aliasing, or other artifacts normally in
the channel.
        Receiver Band Pass Filter Requirements
        In one implementation, the ATM Channel of the Phase-amplitude-time modulation
technique utilizes an elliptical filter. Elliptical filters offer sharp, frequency cut-off, however,
they are also characterized by group delay. This means not all frequencies pass through the
filter with the same time delay. This group delay is a change in phase, depending on frequency,
which is linear (logarithmically linear) with the frequency. Therefore, the filter is configured to
minimize group delay to avoid upsetting the phase component that is to be detected. As the
number of bits received increases, group delay becomes increasingly important at the upper
corner frequency of the filter.
        At the upper corner frequency, the filter rejects frequencies above the cut-off frequency
and accepts those frequencies below the cut-off frequency. This creates an impedance
discontinuity that causes reflections measured as return loss. Return loss is the voltage ratio of
the power being reflected and the power being accepted, such that the comer frequency
wrinkles the phase component of whatever the transfer slope is. This condition creates
distortion in the area Phase-amplitude-time in which data components are to be detected. So,
both group delay and phase compensation of the group delay are important considerations. A
well-constructed elliptical filter can effectively deal with the problems outlined above for
Phase-amplitude-time modulation applications.
                                                   22

         A suitable communications system background is disclosed in more detail in the
Drawings of US patent 7,046,741 (now expired) issued on May 16, 2006 to inventor Forrest J.
Brown et al. The subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
into this disclosure.
         An amplitude-time modulated compound signal wave modulator/demodulator will
typically be configured as a classical communications transmit/receive system. Amplitude
time     modulation   techniques   can also     be   a dedicated    standalone communications
transmit/receive system.
         As will be appreciated, Phase-amplitude-time modulation provides a new method for
communication of information that overcomes many of the challenges of conventional
modulation methods. With this new modulation technology significant channel bandwidth and
noise issues can be addressed. Phase-amplitude-time modulation has been demonstrated to
provide higher data rate, more efficient frequency utilization and greater immunity to noise
effects.
         Various alternative embodiments may include a use case for a satellite data modem,
down-hole sensor communication for the oil / gas industry, cellular client and infrastructure
communication, telephone and xDSL and a multitude of wireless and cable communication.
         Similarly, while the embodiments are described herein as a signal modulation apparatus
and means for data communication,            they may be readily used with any number of
communication systems or other similar devices now known or hereafter developed.
         Finally, while the present disclosure refers to various exemplary embodiments, many
changes, combinations and modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments without
departing from the scope of the disclosure.       For example, the various components may be
implemented in alternative ways. These alternatives can be suitably selected depending upon
the particular application or in consideration of any number of factors associated with the
operation of the device.     In addition, the techniques described herein may be extended or
modified for use with other types of devices. These and other changes or modifications are
intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.
                                                 23

CLAIMS:
1. A method for encoding digital data comprising:
        generating an amplitude-time modulated sine wave by at least one of holding and
    delaying an amplitude of a sine wave;
        generating a phase-modulated sine wave; and
        mixing the amplitude-time modulated sine wave and the phase-modulated sine wave
     with a ninety degree quadrature relationship, and summing the amplitude-time modulated
     sine wave and the phase-modulated sine wave, to generate a compound sine wave.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein modulation of at least one of the amplitude-time
    modulated sine wave and the phase-modulated sine wave serves to encode data within the
    compound sine wave.
3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising applying guard bands at zero
    crossings and peak values of one or more of the sine waves.
4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein encoding of data within the
    amplitude-time modulated sine wave approximates steps on the amplitude-time modulated
    sine wave.
5.      A system for encoding digital data comprising:
        an amplitude-time modulator for generating an amplitude-time modulated sine wave,
   the amplitude time modulator configured to at least one of hold and delay an amplitude of a
   sine wave to generate the amplitude-time modulated sine wave;
        a phase modulator for generating a phase-modulated sine wave; and
        a summing module configured to mix the amplitude-time modulated sine wave and
    phase-modulated sine wave with a ninety degree quadrature relationship, and sum the
    amplitude-time modulated sine wave with the phase-modulated sine wave, to generate a
    compound sine wave.
6.      The system of claim 5 further comprising a compound sine wave modulator for
    modulating the compound sine wave to encode data thereon.
                                               24

7.      The system of claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the amplitude-time modulator is
    programmable to select an angle where data bits reside on the amplitude-time modulated
    sine wave.
8.      The system of any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the phase modulator is programmable
    to encode a control signal regarding interpretation of data encoded by the amplitude-time
    modulator.
9.      The system of any one of claims 5 to 8 wherein the amplitude-time modulated sine
    wave includes data encoded as a step in a wave signature of the amplitude-time modulated
    sine wave.
10.     The system of any one of claims 5 to 9 further comprising:
        an up-converter module for converting the compound sine wave for communication
    transmission;
        a transmitter for transmitting the compound sine wave; and
        a down-converter module for deciphering data encoded in the transmitted compound
    sine wave.
                                               25

                                             1/12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                        (ATM Modulation)
                                               FIG. 1
                                                                             Time
                            Amplitude                                               Amplitude
                     Time
              Time
                Amplitude                                        Amplitude
                                                                             Time
                                (ATM Options for the Positive Cycle)
                                               FIG. 2

                                                   2/12
<removed-date>   Amplitude                                                                     Amplitude
                          Time
                                                                                     Time
<removed-apn>
                          Time                                                       Time
                                 Amplitude                               Amplitude
                                      (ATM Options for the Negative Cycle)
                                                     FIG. 3
                                         (8 Bit per Symbol ATM Signal)
                                                     FIG. 4

                                3/12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          (Channel Relationship)
                                  FIG. 5
              (Creating the QSine Complex Modulation Signal)
                                  FIG. 6

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 8   FIG. 7                              4/12

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 9                              5/12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 10                              6/12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 11                              7/12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 12                              8/12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 13                              9/12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 14                              10/12

                    11/12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              (QAM 256 Constellation)
                      FIG. 15

                    12/12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              (QAM 1024 Constellation)
                      FIG. 16
                      FIG. 17

