 ABSTRACT
           The present invention provides a transmitter for an electromagnetic survey
 system for transmitting signals having a waveform comprising at least a first pulse and
 a second pulse, wherein the first and second pulses are different in at least one of
 shape and power. Embodiments of the invention enable combining various distinct
 pulses that may have been optimized for respective applications to form a transmitter
 waveform for conducting a geological survey. In effect, the embodiments of the present
 invention provides an EM system that is substantially equivalent to multiple EM systems
 operating at the same time for collecting data in relation to different aspects of the
 geology of interest. Advantageously, the benefits of the present invention can be
 obtained without the undesirable complexity and cost associated with the simultaneous
 deployment of multiple EM systems.
1002143569

                              ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEM UTILIZING
                          MULTIPLE PULSE TRANSMITTER WAVEFORMS
    5                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention relates to electromagnetic systems, and more particularly, to
         systems and methods for conducting geophysical surveys using multiple pulse transmitter
         waveforms.
  10
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        Electromagnetic (EM) measurement systems for geophysical measurement purposes
        detect the electric and magnetic fields that can be measured in, on or above the earth, to
  15    identify subsurface changes in electrical properties of materials beneath the earth's
        surface. Airborne EM systems carry out field measurements in the air above the earth. A
        primary goal is to make measurements at a number of spatial locations to identify the size
        and position of localized material property changes. Such changes can be attributed to a
        desired outcome such as identifying a localized mineral deposit, a buried object, or the
 20    presence or absence of water.
       Generally speaking, EM systems usually include a source of electromagnetic energy
       (transmitter) and a receiver to detect the response of the ground.
25     EM systems can be either frequency-domain or time-domain. Both types of systems are
       based on principles encapsulated in Faraday's Law of electromagnetic induction, which
      states that a time-varying primary magnetic field will produce an electric field. For
      airborne systems, the primary field is created by passing a current through a transmitter
      loop (or series of transmitter loops). The temporal changes to the created or radiated
30    magnetic field induce electrical eddy currents in the ground. These currents have an
                                                     1

          associated secondary magnetic field that can be sensed, together with the primary field,
          by a series of receiver coils.
         Each receiver coil may consist of a series of wire loops, in which a voltage is induced
    5    proportional to the strength of the eddy currents in the ground and their rate of change
         with time. Typical receiver coils have axes in the three Cartesian directions that are
         orthogonal to one another. Coils with their axes perpendicular to the earth are most
         sensitive to horizontal layers and half-spaces. Coils with their axes horizontal are more
         sensitive to discrete or vertical conductors.
  10
        In frequency-domain systems, the time-varying transmitter signal is a sinusoidal
        waveform of constant frequency, inducing electrical currents in the ground of the same
        frequency. Most systems use several constant frequencies that are treated independently.
        Although the secondary field has the same frequency as the primary field, it will have a
  15    different amplitude and phase.
        For time-domain systems, a time-varying field is created by a current that may be pulsed.
        The change in the transmitted current induces an electrical current in the ground that
       persists after the primary field is turned off. Typical time domain receiver coils measure
 20    the rate of change of this secondary field. The time-domain transmitter current waveform
       repeats itself periodically and can be transformed to the frequency domain where each
       harmonic has a specific amplitude and phase.
      Existing prior art EM systems have limitations in surveying various terrains and
25    geologies. For example, time domain EM systems existing in the prior art are typically
      configured or optimized to measure a particular type of terrain or geology near an
      estimated depth, based on a number of considerations pertinent to each task. These time
      domain EM systems generally are not well-equipped to deal with surveys of complex
      geology, which may comprise a mixture of deep and shallow geological structures, and/or
30    strong and weak conductivities.
                                                       2

         As a result, in some surveys of complex terrain or geology where existing prior art time
         domain EM systems were used, the geology of interest would be flown over multiple
        times, each with a specifically configured EM system for detecting one specific aspect of
        the terrain or geology. While this approach may provide desirable survey resolution, it is
   5    generally time consuming and not cost-effective.
        In some ground-based EM systems existing in the prior art, such as the Geonics'   EM-37
        system, two or more transmitter waveforms were used to collect shallow and deep ground
       information, wherein repeated pulses of a first waveform are transmitted and measured,
 10    followed by the transmission and measurement of repeated pulses of a second waveform.
       In contrast, for an airborne EM system which is constantly moving, it may be difficult to
       use a dual waveform system to collect responses from both waveforms over the same
       geology, which results in poor survey resolution for the combined waveform survey data.
 15    Therefore, there remains a need for an improved EM surveying system that can
       efficiently and cost-effectively provide measurements of various terrains and complex
      geologies.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20
      The present invention overcomes the above drawbacks of the prior art EM systems by
      providing an electromagnetic survey transmitter for transmitting signals having a
      waveform comprising multiple pulses that are different in shape and/or power, and
     providing an airborne EM system that is configurable to transmit signals having a
25   waveform comprising multiple pulses that are different in shape and/or power.
     The present invention improves the overall resolution of measurements from pulses of the
     transmitter waveform, and provides advantages in defining geology.           The present
     invention provides benefits that are comparable to those achievable using multiple
                                                   3

      simultaneously deployed EM systems, without the undesirable integration complexity
      and the cost associated therewith.
     In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
  5  electromagnetic survey system, comprising: a transmitter for transmitting signals having
     a waveform comprising at least a first pulse and a second pulse, said first pulse and
     second pulse are different in at least one of shape and power; and a receiver for
     measuring responses from said signals.
 10  In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a transmitter
     for an electromagnetic survey system for transmitting signals having a waveform
     comprising at least a first pulse and a second pulse, said first pulse and second pulse are
     different in at least one of shape and power.
 15  In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
    conducting geological survey, comprising: transmitting signals having a waveform
     comprising at least a first pulse and a second pulse, said first pulse and second pulse are
     different in at least one of shape and power; and measuring responses from said signals.
20  Preferably, the transmitter waveform cycles are repeated without overlap in time.
    Preferably, the receiver of the electromagnetic survey system measures the responses
    from waveform cycles during and after each (or all) pulse(s) of the waveform have been
    transmitted.
25
    Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
    following detailed description and the accompanying drawings, which illustrate, by way
    of example, the principles of the invention.
30
                                                   4

                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      By way of example only, preferred embodiments of the present invention are described
      hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
   5
      Figure 1 is a diagram of one configuration of an EM system in accordance with prior art;
      Figure 2 is a block diagram of an example embodiment of an EM system;
 10   Figure 3 shows an example of a dual waveform in accordance with prior art;
      Figure 4 shows an example waveform in accordance with an embodiment of the airborne
      EM system;
 15   Figure 5 shows an example waveform in accordance with an embodiment of the airborne
      EM system;
     Figure 6 shows an example waveform in accordance with an embodiment of the airborne
     EM system; and
20
     Figure 7 is a schematic perspective view of an illustrative embodiment of the airborne
     EM system in an airborne position flying at surveying speeds.
25                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying
     drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention are shown.
                                                 5

        Illustrated in Figure 1 is an airborne EM system known in the art, wherein the primary
        field is created by passing a current through a transmitter loop (or series of transmitter
        loops). The temporal changes to the created or radiated magnetic field induce electrical
        eddy currents in the ground. These currents have an associated secondary magnetic field
   5   that can be sensed, together with the primary field, by a series of receiver coils.
       The present invention may be implemented as an EM system such as the one shown
       using block diagrams in Figure 2.
 10    Referring to Figure 2, the EM system comprises a transmitter section 10, which may
       include a signal generator 30, and a receiver section 20. The configuration, construction
      and operation of the receiver 20 and the associated receiver coils can be provided in
      accordance with conventional EM practice known to a person skilled in the art.
 15   The present description provides an EM survey transmitter 10 for transmitting signals
      having a waveform comprising multiple pulses wherein at least two pulses are different
      in shape, power, or both.
      In    accordance    with  an example     embodiment     of the present       disclosure, the
20    electromagnetic transmitter section 10 is configurable to transmit signals having a
     waveform comprising at least a first pulse and a second pulse, wherein the first and
     second pulses are different in at least one of shape and power.
     Referring to Figure 3, in ground-based EM system existed in the prior art, such as the
25   Geonics       EM-37 system, dual transmitter waveforms were used to collect shallow and
     deep ground information, wherein repeated pulses of a first waveform are transmitted and
     measured, followed by the transmission and measurement of repeated pulses of a second
     waveform.
                                                   6

       In contrast, referring to Figure 4, an example waveform 32 in accordance with the present
       disclosure comprises multiple or a plurality of pulses including at least a first pulse 34
       and a second pulse 36, wherein the first pulse 34 is different from the second pulse 36 in
       shape, and/or power.
   5
       As shown in Figure 4, an EM waveform cycle 38 comprises more than one transmitted
       waveform 32 comprising pulses 34 and 36. Repeated waveforms 32 in a waveform cycle
       38 can be the same or opposite polarity. Each pulse 34 and 36 of waveform 32 has an
       ON time period followed by an OFF time period. Measurements from pulses 34 and 36
  10  are taken in the ON time and the OFF time of each pulse 34 and 36 with respect to
      transmitted waveform 32.
      As illustrated in Figure 4, signals having the waveform 32 can be repeatedly transmitted
      and the ground responses measured during the ON and OFF time periods of the EM
 15   waveform cycles. Namely, multiple distinct pulses are combined within EM waveforms
      and multiple waveforms within cycles of pulsed signal transmission, and responses
      thereof are measured in respective EM cycles.
      In some embodiments, waveforms 32 comprising multiple distinct pulses are transmitted
 20  in at least some EM cycles of the entire survey task. This allows a mixed use of the
     multi-pulse waveform 32 disclosed herein and the conventional pulsed signals to conduct
     survey over a wide variety of terrains including simple geology, complex geology, or a
     mixture thereof.
25   The plurality of pulses within a waveform 32 may have various characteristics including
     shape, amplitude, phase, frequency, and polarity, and may be arranged in any suitable
     order or any suitable manner to form the waveform 32 as described herein.
     For example, as shown in Figure 5, waveform 32 may comprise bi-polar pulses (34a, 34b)
30   and (36a, 36b) that are different in at least one of shape and power.
                                                    7

        In some embodiments, at least one pulse of waveform 32 can be repeated within an EM
        cycle 38 of the waveform 32.
   5   Referring to Figure 6, an example waveform 32 in accordance with the present disclosure
       comprises distinct pulses (for example, 34, 36, and 39) that have different ON times or
       base frequencies, and includes pulses having a stepped pulse shape 34. A person skilled
       in the art would appreciate that various other pulse shapes can also be used in forming the
       waveform 32, including irregular, triangular, saw-tooth, square, sinusoidal shapes or the
 10    like or any combination of any number of the above.
      Preferably, signals formed from various waveforms 32 disclosed herein are transmitted
      by the transmitter 10 at a predetermined repetitive rate for the duration of at least some
      EM cycles of a survey task, enabling the collection of consistent data over the entire
 15   survey area. However, a person skilled in the art would appreciate that waveform 32 can
      be transmitted in any fashion suitable for a particular application, including in a random
      manner, at a constant repetition frequency, or at a variable repetition frequency.
      Preferably, at least two of the distinct pulses 34 and 36 of a waveform 32 have the same
20    repetition rate.
     In some embodiments, the EM transmitter 10 transmits waveforms 32 wherein the
     distinct pulses 34 and 36 have different repetition rates or base frequencies.
25   Advantageously, transmitting signals using waveforms 32 disclosed herein provides
     substantially simultaneous measurements of the earth response from multiple distinct
     pulses 34 and 36 that may be optimized for various aspects of a survey task, including
     deep and shallow geological structures, strong and weak conductivities, and/or variations
     in extent and orientation of the survey targets. For example, the pulses having higher
                                                    8

    power can be used to detect deeper geological structures, and higher frequency pulses can
    be used to detect shallower geology.
    Preferably, the delay between the starting times of consecutive cycles 38 of waveform 32
  5 is configurable in accordance with the needs of a particular survey task. In other words,
    the repetition rate or base frequency of waveform 32 is configurable.
    Advantageously, the repetition rate of waveform 32 can be configured to allow response
    data collection at the highest possible resolution from all distinct pulses included in
10  waveform 32.
    A preferred delay between transmission of the adjacent pulses 34 and 36 of the waveform
    32 can be configured so that the EM system would have moved a small distance during
    each consecutive pulse 34 and 36. Therefore the resolution of data measured from the
15  pulses 34 and 36 is much higher comparing to that of the prior art systems and methods,
    thereby providing a significant advantage in defining geology.
    For example, if an airborne EM system is conducting a survey at 30Hz repetition rate,
    then the preferred delay between pulses 34 and 36 of a waveform 32 can be configured to
20  be less than 16.6ms and more preferably 10 ms or less, so that the movement of the EM
    system between the pulses 34 and 36 of the waveform 32 would be minimized or
    rendered negligible, thereby enabling substantially simultaneous pulse transmission and
    measurement thereof. Therefore the resolution of data measured from pulses 34 and 36 is
    much higher comparing to that of the prior art systems and methods, thereby providing a
25  significant advantage in defining geology. The delay between pulses 34 and 36 could be
    longer or shorter when surveying at a lower or higher repetition rate or base frequency.
    The embodiments of the present invention thus enable combining various pulses 34 and
    36 that are optimal for respective applications to form a transmitter waveform 32 for
30  conducting a geological survey.
                                                 9

      In effect, the embodiments of the present invention provides an EM system that is
      substantially equivalent to multiple EM systems operating at the same time for collecting
      data in relation to different aspects of the geology of interest.
  5
     Advantageously, the benefits of the present invention can be obtained without the
     undesirable complexity and cost associated with the simultaneous deployment of multiple
     EM systems.
 10  The embodiments disclosed herein therefore provide an EM system that is configurable
     to transmit signals having a waveform comprising multiple pulses that are different in
     shape and/or power.
    In some embodiments, the EM system comprises a transmitter 10 for transmitting signals
 15 having a waveform 32 comprising at least a first pulse 34 and a second pulse 36, wherein
    the first and second pulses are different in at least one of shape and power; and a receiver
    20 for measuring responses from the transmitted signals.
    Preferably, the signals having waveform 32 are transmitted by transmitter 10 without
20  overlap in time. In other words, the beginning of a cycle 38b of waveform 32 follows the
    end of a preceding cycle 38a of waveform 32, as shown in Figure 6.
    Preferably, receiver 20 of the EM system measures the responses from waveform 32
    during and after each pulse of waveform 32 that is transmitted.
25
    The waveform 32 disclosed herein can be generated using one or more signal generator
    30, which comprises circuitry means for generating electrical currents, shaping and
    adjusting the currents as a function of the various parameters of the EM system into
    pulses, and means for combining the pulses into a desirable waveform 32.
30
                                                    10

        EM transmitter 10 for transmitting signals in waveform 32 as disclosed herein can be
        used in various EM survey systems, and in particular in airborne EM systems.          For
        example, in accordance with the present disclosure, a method of conducting geological
        survey comprises transmitting EM signals having a waveform comprising at least a first
   5    pulse and a second pulse, the first and second pulses being different in at least one of
        shape and power; and measuring responses from said signals.
       In some embodiments, the EM system described herein comprises a signal processor or
       means for processing the EM data.             In particular, the signal processor extracts
  10   measurements corresponding to the distinct pulses of the transmitted waveform 32, and
       interprets the corresponding measurements in light of all measurements to estimate
       distribution of conductivity in the subsurface and various aspects of the geology of
       interest.
 15   A person skilled in the art would appreciate that the above described invention may be
      used in any electromagnetic system using pulse transmitter waveforms where applicable
      and is not strictly restricted to an airborne EM system.
      For illustrative purpose only, the general configuration of an airborne EM system is
 20   described. It is to be expressly understood that the description and drawings are only for
      the purpose of illustration and as an aid to understanding, and are not intended as a
      definition of the limits of the invention.
      For example, referring Figure 7, an aircraft towed EM survey system generally comprises
25   a tow assembly 2 comprising a transmitter section 10 and a receiver section 20. The
     aircraft can be manned or unmanned power driven fixed-wing airplane, helicopter,
     airship or any other flying machine, as a person skilled in the art would appreciate. The
     transmitter section 10 may comprise a transmitter loop frame which supports a
     transmitter loop coil for generating a primary electromagnetic field that induces a
30   secondary electromagnetic field in the ground.         The transmitter frame may comprise
                                                     11

      tubular sections 12 that are serially connected at a plurality of joints 14 as shown in
      Figure 7.    However, a person skilled in the art would appreciate that the systems
      disclosed herein may work with any type of transmitter or generator as a source of
      electromagnetic energy.
  5
     In some embodiments, the transmitter frame comprises tubular sections 12 that are made
     of generally rigid or semi-rigid material. For example, materials such as carbon fiber
     reinforced plastic, carbon fiber reinforced polymer, unplasticized polyvinyl chloride
     (uPVC), wood/plastic composite, or any other composite or materials that provide strong
 10  rigidity, stability and resistance to deformation, can be used to construct tubular sections
     12 or portions thereof.
     In some embodiments, lightweight materials are used for constructing tubular sections 12
     or transmitter section 10 to allow for constructing sizable transmitter frame without
15   significantly increasing the weight thereof.
    Using rigid material to construct the transmitter section 10 may allow its size to be
    increased while maintaining its overall stability and structural integrity.
20  In some embodiments, the tubular sections 12 are connected in a manner that
    substantially eliminates the relative rotation between the connected tubular section 12,
    thereby allowing the transmitter frame to retain a rigid shape during operation, or
    preventing distortion of the shape of the transmitter section 10.
25  The rigid and modular transmitter frame 10 provides stable support for large transmitter
    loop and will maintain its rigidity and stability as the size of the transmitter loop varies.
    For example, transmitter loop having diameter in excess of about 30 meters and weight of
    about 500 kg can be achieved.
                                                  12

     The receiver section 20 of the example embodiment shown in Figure 7 is positioned
     along a central axis that is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by the
     transmitter frame, and is coupled to the transmitter section 10 by a plurality of cross
     support means 4 such as cross ropes or cross bars or rods. However, a person skilled in
  5  the art would appreciate that the systems disclosed herein may work with any type of
     receiver section 20 in other suitable configurations. For example, the receiver section 20
     may be disposed in a co-planar fashion with the transmitter section 10, or may be
     concentric or co-axial with the transmitter section 10. The receiver section 20 may be
    positioned above, within, or below the plane as defined by the transmitter section 10, at
10  the center of the transmitter section 10, and/or offset from the center of the transmitter
    section 10.    The receiver section includes a receiver which may be supported in any
    manner known in the art and may comprise at least one receiver coil.
    Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference
15  to certain preferred embodiments thereof, other embodiments and modifications are
    possible. Therefore, the scope of the appended claims should not be limited by the
    preferred embodiments set forth in the examples, but should be given the broadest
    interpretation consistent with the description as a whole.
                                                 13

 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
           1.      An electromagnetic survey system, comprising:
           a transmitter for transmitting signals having a waveform comprising at least a first
 pulse and a second pulse, said first pulse and second pulse are different in at least one
 of shape and power; and
           a receiver for measuring responses from said signals.
           2.      The electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, wherein said signal
 waveform is transmitted at a predetermined repetition rate.
          3.      The electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, wherein said first pulse
 and second pulse have the same repetition rate.
          4.      A transmitter for an electromagnetic survey system for transmitting
signals having a waveform comprising at least a first pulse and a second pulse, said
first pulse and second pulse are different in at least one of shape and power.
          5.      The transmitter of claim 4, wherein said signal waveform is transmitted at
a predetermined repetition rate.
          6.      The transmitter of claim 4, wherein said first pulse and second pulse have
the same repetition rate.
          7.      A method of conducting geological survey, comprising:
         transmitting signals having a waveform comprising at least a first pulse and a
second pulse, said first pulse and second pulse are different in at least one of shape
and power; and
         measuring responses from said signals.
                                                 14
1002143569

           8.       The method of claim 7, wherein said signal waveform is transmitted at a
  predetermined repetition rate.
           9.       The method of claim 7, wherein said first pulse and second pulse have
 the same repetition rate.
           10.      The method of claim 7, wherein:
           transmitting signals further comprises transmitting an electromagnetic waveform
 cycle comprising repeated transmissions of the waveform; and
           the first pulse and the second pulse are different shape in each repeated
 transmission of the waveform.
           11.      The method of claim 7, wherein:
          transmitting signals further comprises transmitting an electromagnetic waveform
 cycle comprising repeated transmissions of the waveform; and
          the repeated transmissions of the waveform in the electromagnetic waveform
 cycle comprise a bi-polar pulse and at least one pulse that is not a bi-polar pulse.
           12.      The method of claim 7, wherein:
          transmitting signals further comprises transmitting a plurality of electromagnetic
waveform cycles;
          each waveform cycle in the plurality of electromagnetic waveform cycles
comprises multiple waveforms; and
          each waveform comprises a plurality of distinct pulses having at least one of
different on times and base frequencies.
          13.       The method of claim 12, wherein:
          at least one waveform in the multiple waveforms comprises the first pulse and
the second pulse; and
          measuring responses further comprises measuring responses during on time
periods and off time periods of the first pulse and the second pulse in each one of the
                                                15
1002143569

 plurality of electromagnetic waveform cycles.
           14.      The method of claim 13, wherein transmitting signals further comprises
 transmitting the at least one waveform in only some of the plurality of electromagnetic
waveform cycles.
           15.      The method of claim 7, wherein:
           the first pulse and the second pulse of the waveform each comprise an on time
 period followed by an off time period; and
           measuring responses further comprises measuring responses from each one of
the first pulse and the second pulse during the on time period and the off time period of
each one of the first pulse and the second pulse.
           16.      The method of claim 7, wherein the first pulse and the second pulse
comprise bi-polar pulses.
           17.      The method of claim 8, wherein:
          transmitting signals further comprises transmitting signals from an airborne
electromagnetic system conducting an electromagnetic survey at the predetermined
repetition rate; and
          the method further comprises setting a delay between the first pulse and the
second pulse of the waveform based on the predetermined repetition rate so that
movement of the airborne electromagnetic system between the first pulse and the
second pulse is rendered negligible and simultaneous pulse transmission and pulse
measuring is enabled.
          18.      The method of claim 17, wherein:
          the predetermined repetition rate comprises 30Hz; and
          the delay is less than 16.6 ms.
          19.      The electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, wherein:
                                                16
1002143569

           the electromagnetic survey system comprises an airborne electromagnetic
 system conducting an electromagnetic survey at a predetermined repetition rate; and
            the transmitter sets a delay between the first pulse and the second pulse of the
 waveform based on the predetermined repetition rate so that movement of the airborne
 electromagnetic system between the first pulse and the second pulse is rendered
 negligible and simultaneous pulse transmission and pulse measuring is enabled.
           20.     The electromagnetic survey system of claim 19, wherein:
          the predetermined repetition rate comprises 30Hz; and
          the delay is less than 16.6 ms.
                                               17
1002143569

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
