                                          ABSTRACT
   A system for protecting an unstable geological surface, the system comprising at least
   one support mesh panel 10 comprising a plurality of metal wires 22 that are coated with a
   polymeric thermoset coating, at least one rock bolt 36, 38 and a rock bolt bearing plate 40
 5 for fixing the at least one support mesh panel to the unstable geological surface and a
   spacer 42 having a non-metallic support mesh contact surface for locating between the
   rock bolt bearing plate the support mesh panel such that the non-metallic support mesh
   contact surface bears upon the support mesh.
10 FIGURE 5

4/5
Ul
    LI)

                                            1
            SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SUPPORTING AN UNSTABLE
                                GEOLOGICAL SURFACE
                                            FIELD
 5 The present disclosure relates to a support system and method for supporting an
   unstable rock or ground surface. In particular, the present disclosure is directed
   towards supporting a roof surface in an underground mine.
                                       BACKGROUND
10 The present disclosure will include particular reference to applications for supporting
   a roof in an underground mine and especially a coal mine.           However, it will be
   appreciated that the present disclosure has wider applications and may be used to
   support any suitable unstable rock or ground surface including steep roadsides and
   civil excavations such as road and train tunnels.
15
   It is known to stabilise unstable rock surfaces by the use of rock bolts. Rock bolts
   are long anchor bolts that transfer load from an unstable exterior to the confined
   more stable interior rock.
20 Rock bolts are used together with bearing plates that retain and support the rock
   beneath the plate. The bearing plates also prevent the nut at the end of the rock
   bolt from being pulled into the rock bolt hole.
   The use and design of rock bolt bearing plates is a very important part for overall
25 safety of a support system.       This is particularly relevant for underground mine
   applications which is an inherently dangerous work environment. It is important that
   bearing plates are able to accommodate uneven roof conditions by allowing angular
   movement between the bolt and the plate. There have been a number of bearing
   plate designs that have been proposed or used to do this. Some bearing plates use
30 a domed ball that will rotate around the central hole in the bearing plate. Other
   designs use a deformable bearing plate that will distort to accommodate angular
   movement.

                                              2
   Other important considerations with regard to rock bolt bearing plates are load
   capacity, load/deformation characteristics, interaction with roof rock and ease of
   installation.   It is also important that bearing plates have the same ultimate load
 5 capacity as the bolts they are used with. It will be appreciated that rock properties
   and roof conditions will vary from site to site and the design of a rock bolt system
   must be designed accordingly.
   Whilst rock bolting may prevent catastrophic failure of the unstable surface, most
10 rock fall injuries in underground excavations are caused by falls of smaller rocks. In
   order to address this problem, it is known to use screening in the form of a welded
   steel mesh that is held in place by the rock bolts. The mesh passively confines the
   surface so as to prevent fragments of rock and coal from falling from the roof and
   ribs in the spacing between the rock bolts.
15
   Roof support mesh is typically available in rectangular sections formed from parallel
   line wires and parallel cross wires welded together in a square or rectangular
   pattern. The mesh is available in panels of about 750mm to 1500mm and in widths
   and between 3m to 6m in length.
20
   The strength of the mesh depends upon the gauge of the steel. As the strength
   dictates the amount of rock load that can be tolerated, strength is an important
   consideration.      Typically steel wire having a diameter of between 4mm to 6mm,
   commonly 5mm is used.           It will be appreciated that mesh panels having these
25 dimensions are heavy and generally require two operators to handle a mesh panel.
   Roof support mesh in an underground mine is generally installed in a tunnel
   immediately after a new section of roadway has been excavated. After excavation,
   the mesh panels are positioned across the roadway with one end overlapping a
30 previously installed panel. The rock bolts are then positioned and installed so as to
   clamp the mesh to the roof strata.

                                           3
   It is known to provide additional lengths of wire at those positions of the mesh
   where the rock bolts are installed so as to reinforce those sections. The reinforcing
   wires may also serve to provide a guide for the positioning of the rock bolts.
 5 Installation of support mesh is expensive in terms of capital and material handling
   costs.     Further costs are incurred indirectly as a result of the delays taken in
   installing the mesh as this halts the progress of a continuous miner. However, it is
   considered that the additional safety afforded by the mesh outweighs the costs.
10 A recognized disadvantage of steel mesh is its susceptibility to corrosion. As the
   wires are relatively thin, as soon as a wire begins to corrode there is a loss of
   strength. Providing thicker gauge wire that will retain structural integrity for a longer
   period is not an option as this would increase costs and more importantly make the
   panels too heavy to be manually handled and installed.
15
   Constant monitoring of the mesh to detect corrosion must be carried out. It will be
   appreciated that a catastrophic failure of a section of mesh cannot be tolerated.
   Accordingly, as the steel wire corrodes, the mesh must be replaced. The time
   period between installation and replacement can vary considerably depending upon
20 the conditions within a particular mine. Such conditions include, moisture, pH and
   temperature.
   In order to address the problem of corrosion, the standard approach in the mining
   and civil construction industries is to provide galvanized mesh that has been
25 prepared by conventional hot dip galvanising.        However, this simply delays or
   prolongs corrosion rather than preventing it. Further, the mesh panels are subject
   to considerable abrasive and other mechanical forces during transport, storage on
   site and eventual installation.  For example, in underground mines, there may be
   many kilometres of roadway between outdoor storage of the panels to where they
30 are installed. The panels are often towed behind a rock bolting machine to the site
   of installation. This can scratch or damage the galvanised layer, thereby creating a
   seed point for corrosion.

                                           4
   It is also very important for mesh support systems that the rock bolt bearing plates
   are compatible with such use. Bearing plates must be designed not to damage the
   mesh. For example, if bearing plates have sharp corners or edges strata movement
   can cause the mesh to bend over the sharp edges that can cut through or otherwise
 5 damage the mesh.
   Re-installation of mesh involves a significant cost in terms of capital outlay, labour
   costs and mine down time.      In order to reduce the costs of mesh installation, the
   mining industry in particular has looked to methods of automating installation of a
10 roof support material. Although self-drilling systems for installing rock bolts have
   been investigated, mesh installation is necessarily a manual operation in view of the
   size and rigidity of the mesh.
   Thin spray on plastic liners have been proposed as an alternative to mesh as a rock
15 support. By way of example, The University of Wollongong is conducting research
   into a glass fibre reinforced polymer based spray on skin that cures in situ once
   applied.    A suitable material must satisfy numerous criteria including toxicity,
   strength, temperature, moisture, coal dust and pH sensitivity, anti-static, flexural
   properties, fire retardancy and longevity.
20
                                        SUMMARY
   Accordingly, there is a recognized need to provide an alternative to the current
   systems of support for an unstable surface.
25 According to a first aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a system for
   protecting an unstable geological surface, the system comprising at least one
   support mesh panel comprising a plurality of metal wires that are coated with a
   polymeric thermoset coating, at least one rock bolt and a rock bolt bearing plate for
   fixing the at least one support mesh panel to the unstable geological surface and a
30 spacer having a non-metallic support mesh contact surface for locating between the
   rock bolt bearing plate the support mesh panel such that the non-metallic support
   mesh contact surface bears upon the support mesh.

                                             5
   According to a further aspect, there is disclosed a method for installing a support
   mesh panel onto an unstable geological surface, the support mesh panel
   comprising a plurality of metal wires coated with a polymeric thermoset coating, the
   method comprising placing the support mesh panel against a surface to be
 5 supported, providing a rock bolt, a rock bolt bearing plate and a spacer having a
   mesh contact surface and a bolt receiving aperture, wherein the mesh contact
   surface is a plastics surface, installing the rock bolt, rock bolt bearing plate and
   spacer so as to secure the support mesh against the unstable geological surface
   with the spacer located between the support mesh panel and the rock bolt bearing
10 plate with the support mesh contact surface bearing on a part of the support mesh.
   The unstable geological surface that may be supported by the disclosed system
   may be any unstable rock or ground surface. Suitably the surface is the surface of
   a tunnel that has been excavated. The tunnel may have been dug through any type
15 of geological strata such as shale, sandstone, chalk, hard rock, soft rock, earth,
   coal or any mixture thereof.        The disclosed system is particularly suitable for
   providing support to an excavated rock surface in a mine.
   The mesh is generally comprised of a plurality of longitudinal steel wires welded to a
20 plurality of cross wires to form a grid. The grid may be square and/or rectangular.
   The dimensions of the mesh are suitably adapted to the surface to be supported.
   For installation to the roof of a coal mine roadway, the mesh may be in the form of a
   panel. In this case, the length of the longitudinal wires generally corresponds to the
25 width of the roadway. Typical coal mine roadways have a width of between about
   2400mm and 5800mm. The length of the cross wires may be between 800mm to
   1600mm, suitably 1200mm.
   The physical properties of the wire are selected so that the mesh has the desired
30 strength, depending the intended use.         For coal mine applications, a suitable
   minimum yield strength is about 400MPa, typically about 450MPa.             A suitable
   minimum ultimate strength is 450MPa, typically about 50OMPa.              A desirable
   minimum weld strength is 300MPa, preferably 350MPa. Suitable wire diameters are

                                            6
   between about 3mm to about 8mm, typically between 4mm to 6mm. In one aspect,
   the wire diameter is about 5mm.
   At least one pair of longitudinal wires are rock bolt retaining wires adapted to
 5 receive a rock bolt therebetween. Such adaption may be that the opposed pairs of
   wires have a spacing less than the rest of the remaining wires in the mesh.
   Alternatively or in addition to, the wires may have a thicker diameter than the
   remaining wires in the mesh.
10 The mesh may further include one or more longitudinal rock bolt locating wires that
   in use serve to indicate where a rock bolt is to be installed relative to the wire. The
   locating wires suitably do not support a load and are simply present as locaters.
   Thus, the locating wires may be of a smaller diameter, such as for example 2mm to
   4mm. The smaller diameter also makes them easier to identify. Identification may
15 be alternatively or in addition to by means of a unique spacing between other wires.
   The wires are coated with a polymeric thermoset coating. Thermoset coatings are
   cross linked coatings that once cured cannot be melted as opposed to thermoplastic
   coatings that can soften upon heating. The coating serves to protect the steel from
20 environmental conditions such as pH, dust, moisture and the like that can initiate
   and facilitate corrosion.
   It is known in the construction industry to coat steel bars for use as concrete
   reinforcement with an epoxy coating to protect against corrosion.          However, the
25 environmental and physical conditions experienced by steel reinforcement within
   concrete bears little relation to the environmental          and physical conditions
   experienced by a support mesh as used in a coal mine. Reinforcing steel is only
   subjected to the particular environment within concrete. On the other hand, support
   mesh in the aspect where the system is for use in an excavated mine is subject to
30 variations in pH, temperature, volatile chemicals, coal dust, coal dust suppression
   agents and the like. Further properties necessary for use within a mine such as
   non-flammability and antistatic properties are irrelevant to concrete reinforcement.

                                            7
   The present inventor previously has surprisingly and unexpectedly discovered that a
   thin layer of a thermoset material may protect a roof support mesh from corrosion
   and in particular under the harsh environmental conditions within a coal mine. Still
   further, the coating suitably has anti-static and non-flammability properties.
 5
   An especially suitable coating is a fusion bonded epoxy coating. Such coatings are
   powder based and are sprayed on as a powder followed by curing at high
   temperatures. When heated the powder melts and cures to form a coating that is
   tightly bonded to the steel.
10
   As discussed above it is important that the rock bolt bearing plate does not damage
   the steel wire mesh. When a rock bolt is installed it is drilled into the substrate and
   this causes the metal bearing plate to spin against the mesh. This is normally not a
   problem for a galvanised mesh.         However, where the mesh has the thermoset
15 coating spinning of the metal plate can scratch the coating, thereby allowing the
   mesh metal to be exposed to a corrosive environment.
   One approach to this problem is to coat the contact surface of the bearing plate with
   the same thermoset coating.       However, it has been discovered that this is not a
20 practical solution in light of the number of diverse bearing plate designs that are
   used by mine operators. As discussed in the background section, rock bolt bearing
   combinations are selected according to the specific requirement of an excavation.
   Thus, bearing plates must be coated on demand for a particular excavation site.
25 The present inventor has since discovered that by placing a spacer having a non
   metallic mesh contact surface between the bearing plate and the mesh that
   scratching of the coated mesh surface may be minimised or avoided.             It will be
   appreciated that this makes an important contribution to the working of the
   disclosed system and method as a single type of spacer can be used with any
30 number of size and shape of bearing plate.
   The spacer may be a metallic part that is coated with a plastics material on one or
   both sides.

                                           8
   Alternatively, the spacer may be formed from a plastics material.        Any suitable
   plastics material that can protect the mesh coating may be used. Polyurethane that
   can absorb is a suitable material. Another suitable material is polyethylene and in
   particular ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMW).
 5
   For mine applications, the spacer is fire resistant and anti-static rated (FRAS)
   according to the relevant safety requirements.
   IA suitable spacer thickness is between about 0.5 to about 3mmm, suitably about
10 1mm.
   The spacer is suitably provided with a central hole through which the body of a rock
   bolt may pass. Suitable diameters will depend upon the diameter of the rock bolt
   and would typically be between about 20mm to about 40mm, suitably about 30mm.
15
   In order to facilitate bonding and adhesion of the coating and to protect against
   delamination, the steel wire of the mesh may be deformed. Deformed wire refers to
   wire having deformations such as lugs, ribs or other surface irregularities rolled into
   the surface of the steel.
20
   In some applications, the thickness of the polymeric layer is suitably kept to a
   minimum so as to minimise the overall increase in weight of a mesh panel. This
   may be important for manual handling. Mesh panels for supporting coal mine roofs
   can weigh up to about 30kg.       Typically, the thickness of the coating is less than
25 0.5mm and suitably between about 0.05mm to 0.3mm, typically about 0.15mm to
   0.2mm.
   The spacer is suitably dimensioned such that the mesh contact surface has a larger
   footprint than a rock bolt bearing plate that will be used with the spacer.       This
30 provides better protection for the mesh.
   The system may be used in conjunction with rock bolt bearing pates of different
   sizes and shapes. For a square rock bolt bearing plate, the spacer will suitably

                                             9
   have sides that are between 30mm and about 80mm, suitably about 50mm larger
   than the diagonal length of the rock bolt bearing plate.
   For circular rock bolt bearing plates, the diameter of the spacer may be between
 5 30mm and about 80mm, suitably about 50mm larger than the diameter of the rock
   bolt bearing plate.
   The bearing plate of a rock bolt bears against the wires and subjects the wires to
   stress and tension. The mesh therefore may have at least one pair of opposed
10 wires adapted to receive a rock bearing plate, they are suitably of a thicker diameter
   than the remaining wires.       Alternatively or in addition to reinforcement may be
   provided by two wires placed closely together.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
15 Figure 1 is a plan view of a one embodiment of a mesh panel according to the
   disclosure;
   Figure 2 is and end view of three overlapping mesh panels as shown in Figure 1;
   Figure 3 is a detail A from Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a plan view of two overlapping panels as shown in Figure 1;
20 Figure 5 is a schematic view of a cross section of a mine roadway showing two
   adjoining panels as shown in Figure 1 fixed in place on the roof of a mine roadway;
   and
   Figure 6 is a detail of ends of overlapping panels held together by a rock bolt.
25                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Figure 1 shows a support mesh in the form of a rectangular panel 10 having a
   plurality of longitudinal wires 12 and a plurality of cross wires 14. The wires 12, 14
   are welded together at the intersections to define rectangular grids.             The
   longitudinal ends 16, 18 of the panel are respectively downturned and upturned as
30 may be seen in Figure 2. This produces tension on the panel 10 to increase the
   rigidity of the panel 10 to assist in material handling. Each end 16, 18 has an end
   bar 17, 19.

                                           10
   The panel is 4805mm long corresponding to the width of a typical coal mine
   roadway. The width is 1200mm.
 5 In use, the panel 10 is mounted across a mine roadway with the longitudinal wires
   12 transverse to the direction of the roadway. The panel 10 is positioned such that
   it overlaps a previously installed panel and bolted in place. Typical bolting patterns
   of coal mine roadways have a line of rock bolts, typically five, installed across the
   width of the roadway at about 1m intervals.       The width of the panel 10 is thus
10 dimensioned to accommodate such a bolting pattern as will be described further
   below.
   Both the longitudinal 12 and cross wires 14 are deformed wire of 5mm diameter,
   except for bolt retaining wires 20 and locating wires 22, discussed below. All of the
15 wires are coated with an epoxy resin, the coating having a thickness of between
   0.15 to 0.2mm.
   Epoxy coatings for fusion bonding to steel are well known to those in the steel
   coating arts. The coating is applied as per conventional fusion bonding technology.
20 Epoxy resin powder 80% is mixed with a curing agent at 10%, a pigment filler 8%
   and addition agent at 2%. The steel is heated to temperatures of between 180 and
   250C and the powder is sprayed onto the heated metal whereby it melts and cures.
   The longitudinal 12 and cross wires 14 have minimum yield strength of about
25 450MPa, a minimum ultimate strength of about 50OMPa and a minimum weld
   strength of about 300MPa.
   The panel 10 includes two pairs of opposed longitudinal bolt retaining wires 20
   located along an edge of the panel 10 for receiving a rock bolt thread therebetween.
30 These pairs of wires 20 have a diameter of 8mm and are spaced closer together at
   60mm apart. This thicker diameter resists the additional stress applied by the rock
   bolt bearing plate.

                                           11
   On the opposite side of the panel 10 is a locating wire 22 of narrower diameter of
   3mm that is closely spaced to a 5mm wire 24. The 3mm wire acts as a guide or
   reference wire to assist in aligning the next panel 10 to be installed. This not only
 5 ensures that the rock bolts are placed at the predesigned spacing but also avoids
   excess overlap between panels.       It will be appreciated that even a small excess
   overlap of 10 to 20mm over kilometres of roadway can translate into a considerable
   number of excess panels and associated cost capital and labour costs. Further,
   less than optimum rock bolt spacing can translate to excess bolting costs
10
   The panel 10 further includes a second pair of opposed closely spaced wires 26,
   about 40mm apart running along the centre of the panel. This allows spot bolts or
   an intermediate row of bolts to be installed. These wires 26 may be thicker i.e.
   about 8mm or may be of the same diameter as the remaining wires i.e. 5mm.
15 Installation of the intermediate bolts is generally only required where there is poor
   strata and additional support is required.
   Figure 3 is a detail of A of Figure 2 and shows the relationship between ends of
   overlapping panels 10A, 10B prior to rock bolting. The end wire 19 of panel 10A
20 abuts locater wire 22 on panel 10B, thereby facilitating location of the panels with
   respect to each other.
   Figure 4 shows a plan view of the overlapping panels 1OA, 1OB.
25 Figure 5 shows a schematic view of a cross section through a roadway roof 30
   showing adjacent panels 1OA, 1OB that are overlapping and fixed by rock bolts 34at
   the overlapping ends of the panels 1OA, 1OB. Each panel 1OA, 1OB overlaps at the
   respective other end with a further panel 10C, 10D and rock bolts 36 fix these
   further overlapping ends. Each plate 1OA, 1OB has a set of intermediate rock bolts
30 38 that would extend between wires 26.
   Each rock bolt 34, 36, 38 has an uncoated metal rock bolt bearing plate 40 and a
   spacer 42 between the plate 40 and the mesh of the panel. Figure 6 is a detail of

                                           12
   the overlap of panels 10A and 10B.       The spacer is a 1mm thick FRAS plastics
   packer with a 30mm central hole. The rock bolt bearing plate 40 is a mine site
   specific plate. The spacer is square with the sides being 50mm greater than the
   diagonal dimension of the plate 40. It can be seen that spacer 42 protects wires 20
 5 from contacting metal plate and protects the wire coating from being scratched by
   the plate 40.
   The present invention provides a method and system for supporting an excavated
   tunnel surface and in particular the roof of a mine that is resistant to corrosion,
10 without significantly increasing the weight. A still further and unexpected advantage
   is an improvement in manual handling. The coating allows the heavy panels to be
   dragged across a surface more easily compared with conventional mesh support
   panels.
15 It will be appreciated that various changes and modifications may be made to the
   present invention as described and claimed herein without departing from the spirit
   and scope thereof.

                                                13
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   A system for protecting an unstable geological surface, the system comprising at
        least one support mesh panel comprising a plurality of metal wires that are coated
 5      with a polymeric thermoset coating, at least one rock bolt and a rock bolt bearing
        plate for fixing the at least one support mesh panel to the unstable geological
        surface and a spacer having a non-metallic support mesh contact surface for
        locating between the rock bolt bearing plate the support mesh panel such that the
        non-metallic support mesh contact surface bears upon the support mesh.
10
   2.   A method for installing a support mesh panel onto an unstable geological surface,
        the support mesh panel comprising a plurality of metal wires coated with a
        polymeric thermoset coating, the method comprising placing the support mesh
        panel against a surface to be supported, providing a rock bolt, a rock bolt bearing
15      plate and a spacer having a mesh contact surface and a bolt receiving aperture,
        wherein the mesh contact surface is a plastics surface, installing the rock bolt, rock
        bolt bearing plate and spacer so as to secure the support mesh against the unstable
        geological with the spacer located between the support mesh panel and the rock
        bolt bearing plate with the support mesh contact surface bearing on a part of the
20      support mesh.
   3.   The system of claim 1 or the method of claim 2, wherein the spacer is formed from
        a plastics material.
25 4.   The system of claim 1 or claim 3, or the method of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the
        spacer has a thickness between about 0.5 to about 3mmm, preferably about 1mm.
   5.   The system of any one of claims 3 or 4 or the method of any one of claims 2, to 4,
        wherein the rock bolt bearing plate is substantially square and the spacer is
30      substantially square with sides that are between 30mm and about 80mm, preferably
        about 50mm larger than the diagonal length of the rock bolt bearing plate.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
