                                              Abstract
             Process for producing one or more air products, and air separation plant
   The invention relates to a process for producing one or more air products by cryogenic
   separation of air in an air separation plant (100) having a distillation column system
 5 (10) which comprises a high-pressure column (111), which is operated at a first
   pressure level, and a low-pressure column (112), wherein a feed air quantity is
   compressed in a main air compressor (101) to the first pressure level, from which a first
   fraction and a second fraction are post-compressed in a post-compressor (105) and a
   third fraction is compressed only to the first pressure level and is fed at the first
10 pressure level into the high-pressure column, the post-compressed first fraction of the
   feed air quantity is successively compressed further using a first booster (108) and a
   second booster (109) and is subsequently cooled, expanded to the first pressure level
   and fed into the high-pressure column (111), and the post-compressed second fraction
   of the feed air quantity is cooled and is subsequently expanded, using a first
15 turboexpander (110) which is mechanically coupled to the second booster (109), to the
   first pressure level and fed into the high-pressure column (111). It is provided that the
   first fraction and the second fraction of the feed air quantity are post-compressed in the
   post-compressor (105) from the first pressure level to a second pressure level at least
   3 bar above the first pressure level, and are extracted from the post-compressor (105)
20 jointly at the second pressure level, impure nitrogen, the nitrogen content of which lies
   below the overhead product of the high-pressure column (111), is extracted from the
   high-pressure column (111) at the first pressure level and is expanded using a second
   turboexpander (115) which is mechanically coupled to the first booster (108), and a
   fluid enriched with argon is extracted from the low-pressure column (112), is depleted
25 of argon and is recycled into the low-pressure column (112). The invention likewise
   provides a corresponding air separation plant (100).
   (Figure 1)

                1/5
         7-.4
-jLL     -
         H    4
    Ini,

                                                  I
             Process for producing one or more air products, and air separation plant
   The invention relates to a process for the cryogenic separation of air, and to an air
   separation plant.
 5 Prior art
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
   common general knowledge in the field.
10
   The production of air products in liquid or gaseous form by cryogenic separation of air
   in air separation plants is known and described for example in H.-W. Hsring (Ed.),
   Industrial Gases Processing, Wiley-VCH, 2006, in particular section 2.2.5, "Cryogenic
   Rectification".
15
   Air separation plants have distillation column systems which can for example take the
   form of two-column systems, in particular conventional Linde two-column systems, but
   also three- or multi-column systems. In addition to the distillation columns for the
   production of nitrogen and/or oxygen in liquid and/or gaseous form, that is to say the
20 distillation columns for nitrogen-oxygen separation, it is also possible to provide
   distillation columns for the production of other air components, in particular the noble
   gases krypton, xenon and/or argon.
   The distillation columns of said distillation column systems are operated at different
25 pressure levels. Known two-column systems have a so-called high-pressure column
   (also referred to as pressure column, medium-pressure column or lower column) and a
   so-called low-pressure column (also referred to as upper column). The pressure level
   of the high-pressure column is for example 4 to 6 bar, in particular approximately
   5.3 bar. The low-pressure column is operated at a pressure level of for example 1.3 to
30 1.7 bar, in particular approximately 1.4 bar. In certain cases, for example for combined
   processes with integrated gasification (Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle, IGCC),
   pressures of 3 to 4 bar may also be used in the low-pressure column. The pressures
   stated here and below are absolute pressures at the top of the stated columns.

                                                    2
   US 2005/126221 Al has described an HAP process (see below), in which an additional
   compressor is used. US 5,515,687 discloses an MAC-BAC process (likewise, see
   below), in which generator turbines are jointly used. Electrical energy generated by
   means of the generator turbines is used for driving the post-compressor. By contrast,
 5 drive of boosters by means of expansion turbines in an MAC-BAC process is known for
   example from US 2016/0231053 Al. A further arrangement with expansion turbines
   and boosters is known from FR 2 690 982 Al. US 5,355,681 A discloses argon
   production.
10 It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
   disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
   It is the object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention to make the
   cryogenic separation of air more energy-efficient and less expensive.
15
   Disclosure of the invention
   According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for
   producing one or more air products by cryogenic separation of air in an air separation
20 plant having a distillation column system which comprises a high-pressure column,
   which is operated at a first pressure level, and a low-pressure column, wherein
   -     a feed air quantity is compressed in a main air compressor to the first pressure
         level, from which a first fraction and a second fraction are post-compressed in a
         post-compressor and a third fraction is compressed only to the first pressure level
25       and is fed at the first pressure level into the high-pressure column,
   -     the post-compressed first fraction of the feed air quantity is successively
         compressed further using a first booster and a second booster and is subsequently
         cooled, expanded to the first pressure level and fed in at least partially liquefied
         form into the high-pressure column, and
30 -     the post-compressed second fraction of the feed air quantity is cooled and is
         subsequently expanded, using a first turboexpander which is mechanically coupled
         to the first or to the second booster, to the first pressure level and fed into the high
         pressure column,
   wherein

                                                   3
   -   the first fraction and the second fraction of the feed air quantity are post
       compressed in the post-compressor from the first pressure level to a second
       pressure level at least 3 bar above the first pressure level, and are extracted from
       the post-compressor jointly at the second pressure level,
 5 -   impure nitrogen, the nitrogen content of which lies below the overhead product of
       the high-pressure column, is extracted from the high-pressure column at the first
       pressure level and is expanded using a second turboexpander,
   -   the second turboexpander is mechanically coupled to the booster taken from the
       group of the first and second boosters, which is not coupled to the first
10     turboexpander, and
   -   a fluid enriched with argon is extracted from the low-pressure column, is depleted
       of argon and is recycled into the low-pressure column.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided an air
15 separation plant having a distillation column system which comprises a high-pressure
   column, which is designed for operation at a first pressure level, and a low-pressure
   column, wherein the air separation plant has:
   -   a main air compressor which is designed for compressing a feed air quantity to the
       first pressure level, a post-compressor which is designed for post-compressing a
20     first fraction and a second fraction of the feed air quantity, and means which are
       designed for compressing a third fraction of the feed air quantity only to the first
       pressure level and feeding said third fraction into the high-pressure column at the
       first pressure level,
   -   a first booster and a second booster which are designed for successively further
25     compressing the post-compressed first fraction of the feed air quantity, wherein
       means are provided which are designed for subsequently cooling the first fraction,
       expanding said first fraction to the first pressure level and feeding said first fraction
       in at least partially liquefied form into the high-pressure column, and
   -   means which are designed for cooling the post-compressed second fraction of the
30     feed air quantity, and a first turboexpander which is mechanically coupled to the
       first or to the second booster and which is designed for subsequently expanding
       the second fraction of the feed air quantity to the first pressure level and feeding
       said second fraction into the high-pressure column,
   -   means which are designed for post-compressing the first fraction and the second
35     fraction of the feed air quantity in the post-compressor from the first pressure level

                                                  4
        to a second pressure level at least 3 bar above the first pressure level, and
        extracting said first fraction and second fraction from the post-compressor jointly at
        the second pressure level,
   -    means which are designed for extracting impure nitrogen, the nitrogen content of
 5      which lies below the overhead product of the high-pressure column, from the high
        pressure column at the first pressure level and expanding said impure nitrogen
        using a second turboexpander,
   wherein
   -    the second turboexpander is mechanically coupled to the booster taken from the
10      group of the first and second boosters, which is not coupled to the first
        turboexpander, and
   -    extracting a fluid enriched with argon from the low-pressure column, depleting said
        fluid of argon and recycling said fluid into the low-pressure column.
15 According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided an air separation
   plant according to the second aspect, which is designed for carrying out a process
   according to the first aspect.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a product
20 produced by the process according to the first aspect.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
   claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
25 sense of "including, but not limited to".
   Against this background, the present invention proposes a process for the cryogenic
   separation of air and an air separation plant having the features of the respective
   independent patent claims.
30
    Prior to explanation of the features and advantages of the present invention, some
   basic principles of the present invention will be discussed in more detail, and
   expressions used below will be defined.

                                                  5
   The devices used in an air separation plant are described in the cited technical
   literature, for example in Hsring in section 2.2.5.6, "Apparatus". Where the following
   definitions do not deviate from this, reference is therefore explicitly made to the cited
   technical literature with regard to the linguistic usage in the context of the present
 5 application.
   In the context of the present linguistic usage, liquids and gases can be rich or poor in
   one or more components, wherein "rich" may represent a content of not less than 50%,
   75%, 90%, 95%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.9% or 99.99% and "poor" may represent a content of
10 not more than 50%, 25%, 10%, 5%, 1%, 0.1% or 0.01% on a molar, weight or volume
   basis. The expression "predominantly" may correspond to the definition of "rich".
   Liquids and gases may furthermore be enriched with or depleted of one or more
   components, wherein these expressions relate to a content in a starting liquid or a
   starting gas from which the liquid or the gas has been obtained. The liquid or the gas is
15 "enriched" if said liquid or gas comprises a content of a corresponding component of at
   least 1.1 times, 1.5 times, 2 times, 5 times, 10 times, 100 times or 1000 times that of
   the starting liquid or the starting gas, and is "depleted" if said liquid or gas comprises a
   content of a corresponding component of at most 0.9 times, 0.5 times, 0.1 times, 0.01
   times or 0.001 times that of the starting liquid or the starting gas. Here, where "oxygen"
20 or "nitrogen" are referred to, for example, these are also to be understood to
   encompass a liquid or a gas which is rich in oxygen or nitrogen but which need not
   necessarily be composed exclusively thereof.
   For characterization of pressures and temperatures, the present application uses the
25 terms "pressure level" and "temperature level", which is intended to express the fact
   that corresponding pressures and temperatures in a corresponding plant need not be
   used in the form of exact pressure and temperature values in order to implement the
   concept of the invention. However, such pressures and temperatures typically vary
   within particular ranges of, for example, ± 1%, 5%, 10%, 20% or even 50% around a
30 mean value. It is possible here for corresponding pressure levels and temperature
   levels to lie in disjoint ranges or in overlapping ranges. In particular, pressure levels for
   example include unavoidable or expected pressure losses. The same holds for
   temperature levels. The pressure levels stated here in bar are absolute pressures.

                                                  6
   In air separation processes, for refrigeration and liquefaction at different locations, use
   may be made of turboexpanders such as are fundamentally known to a person skilled
   in the art. Below, "Claude turbines", "Lachmann turbines" and "pressurized nitrogen
   turbines" are referred to. With regard to the function and purpose of such
 5 turboexpanders, reference is made to the technical literature, for example F.G. Kerry,
   Industrial Gas Handbook: Gas Separation and Purification, CRC Press, 2006, in
   particular sections 2.4, "Contemporary Liquefaction Cycles", 2.6, "Theoretical Analysis
   of the Claude Cycle" and 3.8.1, "The Lachmann Principle".
10 By means of a Claude turbine, in the case of a two-column system, cooled compressed
   air is expanded from a relatively high pressure level to the pressure level of the high
   pressure column and is fed into the latter. By contrast, by means of a Lachmann
   turbine, cooled compressed air is expanded to the pressure level of the low-pressure
   column and is fed into the latter. By means of a pressurized nitrogen turbine,
15 exclusively nitrogen from the high-pressure column is expanded. This expansion may
   be performed before said nitrogen has been fully heated in the main heat exchanger
   (so-called cold pressurized nitrogen turbine) or downstream thereof (so-called hot
   pressurized nitrogen turbine). The expanded nitrogen may subsequently be used in
   particular for the regeneration of adsorbers. Through the use of a pressurized nitrogen
20 turbine, too, the energy consumption of an air separation plant can be lowered. If a
   pressurized nitrogen turbine is supplied with nitrogen from the top of the high-pressure
   column, said nitrogen is correspondingly pure. A pressurized nitrogen turbine may
   however also be supplied with impure nitrogen from the high-pressure column, such as
   is also the case in the context of the present invention. In the latter case, a
25 corresponding pressurized nitrogen turbine is also referred to as "impure pressurized
   nitrogen turbine". An impure pressurized nitrogen turbine is distinguished by the fact
   that a nitrogen-rich fluid is supplied thereto from the high-pressure column, the nitrogen
   content of which fluid lies below the nitrogen of the overhead product of the high
   pressure column, that is to say below the maximum nitrogen content generatable in the
30 high-pressure column. Said nitrogen-rich fluid is extracted from the high-pressure
   column in particular laterally, that is to say at least a few, that is to say at least 2, 3, 4 or
   5, theoretical or practical plates below the top.
   A turboexpander may be coupled by means of a common shaft to further expansion
35 machines or energy converters such as oil brakes, generators or compressor stages. If

                                                  7
   one or more turboexpanders is or are coupled to one or more compressor stages (see
   below) and possibly additionally mechanically braked, such that the compressor
   stage(s) is or are operated without energy supplied externally, for example by means of
   an electric motor, the expression "booster turbine" is generally also used for this
 5 arrangement. The compressor stage(s) of a corresponding booster turbine is or are
   generally also referred to as "booster(s)". Here, a booster turbine of said type
   compresses at least one stream by the expansion of at least one other stream, but
   without energy supplied externally, for example by means of an electric motor.
10 Here, by contrast, a compressor is to be understood to mean a device which is driven
   externally, typically electrically, and which is designed for compressing at least one
   gaseous stream from at least one inlet pressure, at which said gaseous stream is
   supplied to the compressor, to at least one final pressure, at which said gaseous
   stream is extracted from the compressor. Here, the compressor forms a structural unit,
15 which may however have multiple individual compressor units or "compressor stages"
   in the form of known piston, screw and/or impeller or turbine arrangements (that is to
   say radial or axial compressor stages). In particular, said compressor stages are driven
   by means of a common drive, for example by means of a common shaft or a common
   electric motor. Multiple compressor stages can thus together form one or more
20 compressors.
   Rotating units, for example expansion machines or expansion turbines, compressors or
   compressor stages, booster turbines or boosters, rotors of electric motors and the like,
   may be mechanically coupled to one another, wherein, in the linguistic usage of this
25 application, a "mechanical coupling" is understood to mean that a fixed or mechanically
   adjustable rotational speed relationship between such rotating units is producible by
   means of mechanical elements such as gearwheels, belts, transmissions and the like.
   A mechanical coupling may be produced generally by means of two or more in each
   case inter-engaging elements, which are for example in positively locking engagement
30 or frictional engagement, for example gearwheels or drive pulleys with belts, or a
   rotationally conjoint connection. A mechanical coupling may be realized in particular by
   means of a common shaft on which the rotating units are in each case rotationally
   conjointly fastened. In this case, the rotational speed of the rotating units is equal.

                                                  8
   The present invention is used in particular in conjunction with so-called MAC-BAC
   ("Main Air Compressor/Booster Air Compressor") processes. An MAC-BAC process is
   distinguished by the fact that only a part of the total feed air quantity supplied to the
   distillation column system is compressed to a pressure level which lies significantly,
 5 that is to say at least 3, 4 or 5 bar, above the pressure level of the high-pressure
   column. A further part of the total feed air quantity supplied to the distillation column
   system is compressed only to the pressure level of the high-pressure column or to a
   pressure level typically not deviating by more than 1 to 2 bar therefrom, and is fed into
   the high-pressure column at said pressure level. That fraction of the total quantity of
10 compressed air supplied to the distillation column system which is compressed to the
   relatively high pressure level may be expanded in an MAC-BAC process after partial
   cooling in a Claude turbine, as is also illustrated in the appended drawings.
   In HAP processes, which are likewise used in air separation, it is by contrast the case
15 that the entire feed air quantity supplied to the distillation column system is compressed
   to a pressure level which lies significantly, that is to say at least 3 bar, above the
   pressure level of the high-pressure column. The pressure difference amounts to at
   least 3 bar, though may also be considerably higher, for example 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10
   bar and up to 14, 16, 18 or 20 bar. HAP processes are known for example from EP 2
20 980 514 A1 and EP 2 963 367 A1.
   All of the nitrogen that is extracted from the high-pressure column and which is neither
   condensed and recycled as reflux into said high-pressure column nor condensed and
   used as liquid reflux into the low-pressure column fundamentally impairs the separation
25 in the low-pressure column, because it is no longer available there as reflux. Such
   nitrogen is nitrogen extracted from the air separation plant in the form of a liquid or
   gaseous nitrogen product, and the nitrogen which, as discussed, is expanded in the
   pressurized nitrogen turbine and used in some other way. This also includes internally
   compressed nitrogen, that is to say liquid nitrogen which is extracted from the high
30 pressure column, pressurized in a pump and evaporated in the main heat exchanger.
   The internal compression is also discussed for example in Hiring, section 2.2.5.2,
   "Internal Compression".
   Here, an "argon discharge" is understood generally to mean a measure in the case of
35 which, from the low-pressure column, a fluid is extracted which is enriched with argon,

                                                  9
   that is to say which for example has an argon content of at least two times, five times
   or ten times, in relation to an oxygen-rich liquid fed in from the low-pressure column, in
   particular the bottoms product of the low-pressure column. An argon discharge
   furthermore comprises at least a part of the argon contained in a corresponding
 5 extracted fluid no longer being recycled into the low-pressure column. The fluid is in
   particular subjected to an argon depletion, and is only thereafter recycled into the low
   pressure column again. Conventional types of argon discharge are a transfer of a
   corresponding fluid into a crude argon column or argon discharge column, from which
   only an argon-poor, oxygen-rich fluid is recycled into the low-pressure column again.
10
   The advantageous effect of the argon discharge is to be attributed to the fact that the
   oxygen-argon separation is no longer necessary in the low-pressure column for the
   discharged argon quantity. The separating-off of the argon from the oxygen in the low
   pressure column is itself highly complex and demands a corresponding "heating"
15 power of the main condenser. If argon is discharged and thus the oxygen-argon
   separation is eliminated, or if said oxygen-argon separation is relocated for example
    into a crude argon column or argon discharge column, the corresponding argon
   quantity no longer needs to be separated off in the oxygen section of the low-pressure
   column, and the heating power of the main condenser can be reduced. Therefore, for
20 an unchanged yield of oxygen, either more air can be injected into the low-pressure
    column, or more pressurized nitrogen can be extracted from the high-pressure column,
   which in turn offers advantages in terms of energy.
    In a conventional crude argon column, crude argon can be obtained and prepared, in a
25  downstream pure argon column, to form an argon product. By contrast, an argon
    discharge column serves primarily for argon discharge for the purpose discussed
    above. An "argon discharge column" may basically be understood to mean a
    separating column for argon-oxygen separation which serves not for obtaining a pure
    argon product but for discharging argon from the air to be separated in the high
30  pressure column and low-pressure column. Its interconnection differs only slightly from
    that of a conventional crude argon column but it contains far fewer theoretical plates,
    specifically fewer than 40, in particular between 15 and 30. Similarly to a crude argon
    column, the bottom region of an argon discharge column is connected to an
    intermediate point of the low-pressure column, and the argon discharge column is
35  cooled by a top condenser, on the evaporation side of which typically expanded

                                                  10
   bottoms liquid from the high-pressure column is introduced. An argon discharge
   column typically has no bottom evaporator.
   Advantages of the invention
 5
   A major advantage of preferred embodiments of the present invention consists in that,
   as will also be discussed below, a known two-column system with high-pressure
   column and low-pressure column can be utilized more efficiently, that is to say better
   "exhausted", than with the use of conventional processes.
10
   For this purpose, an MAC/BAC process is used, with twofold post-boosting of the air
   (so-called throttle or Joule-Thomson stream) expanded in a Joule-Thomson turbine
   (also referred to as liquid turbine or dense fluid expander). This twofold post-boosting is
   performed initially using an impure pressurized nitrogen turbine and subsequently
15 using a so-called medium-pressure turbine, that is to say a turbine which expands air
   which is subsequently fed into the high-pressure column but which, by contrast to the
   air expanded in the Joule-Thomson turbine, is cooled only to a considerably lesser
   extent. Here, the medium-pressure turbine is fed directly from the outlet of the post
   compressor (and not from an intermediate extraction point). Here, the advantages of
20 the present invention are realized for example in combination with an argon discharge
   column (dummy argon column), such as has already been discussed.
   Through the use of the impure pressurized nitrogen turbine, the rectification system
   can be operated with an optimum so-called injection equivalent, whereby energy can
25 be saved. The injection equivalent is normally defined as the sum of the quantity of the
   nitrogen extracted from the high-pressure column and neither recycled as reflux into
   the latter nor used as liquid reflux into the low-pressure column and of the quantity of
   the compressed air expanded into the low-pressure column in relation to the entirety of
   the compressed air fed into the distillation column system. For example, if an impure
30 pressurized nitrogen turbine is used and, in the latter, a quantity M1 of impure nitrogen
   is expanded out of the high-pressure column, a quantity M2 of the nitrogen which is
   extracted from the high-pressure column is extracted as liquid and/or gaseous nitrogen
   product from the air separation plant (that is to say is not used as reflux into the high
   pressure column and/or the low-pressure column), and a quantity M3 of compressed
35 air is supplied to the distillation column system overall, the injection equivalent E is
   calculated as

                                                 11
                                       E = (Ml + M2) / M3                                    (1)
   The increase of the injection equivalent basically permits a reduction in the energy
 5 requirement.
   The oxygen content in the turbine stream supplied to the impure pressurized nitrogen
   turbine in this case advantageously approximately corresponds to the oxygen content
   of a so-called impure nitrogen stream (also referred to as waste gas) from the low
10 pressure column. In this case, the stated material streams are in equilibrium with one
   another, and no additional separation work has to be expended (for the purification of
   the turbine stream to the purity of "pure" pressurized nitrogen with an oxygen content in
   the ppm range).
15 In the context of the present invention, the post-boosting of the throttle stream likewise
   leads to a cost reduction, because in this case, the post-compressor can be reduced by
   one or two stages and can therefore be produced and operated at lower cost.
   The use of two turbines operated at different temperature levels furthermore permits an
20 improved optimization of the Q-T profile in the main heat exchanger, and under some
   circumstances a design of the medium-pressure turbine with improved efficiency,
   because the liquid fraction at the turbine outlet is reduced. In this way, too, energy is
   saved.
25 The use of a medium-pressure turbine finally permits a relatively great extraction of the
   pure nitrogen product from the top of the high-pressure column, because the impure
   nitrogen turbine is hereby relieved of load, and/or relatively high liquid production of
   liquid nitrogen, liquid oxygen and/or, if a complete argon system is present, liquid
   argon.
30
   The present invention proposes a process for producing one or more air products by
   cryogenic separation of air in an air separation plant having a distillation column system
   which comprises a high-pressure column, which is operated at a first pressure level,
   and a low-pressure column, wherein a feed air quantity is compressed in a main air
35 compressor to a first pressure level, from which a first fraction and a second fraction

                                                  12
   are post-compressed in a post-compressor and a third fraction is compressed only to
   the first pressure level and is fed at the first pressure level into the high-pressure
   column. This corresponds to the implementation of an MAC-BAC process as discussed
   above.
 5
   In the context of the process according to the invention, the post-compressed first
   fraction of the feed air quantity is successively compressed further using a first booster
   and a second booster and is subsequently cooled, expanded to the first pressure level
   and fed into the high-pressure column. Said fraction is the already mentioned Joule
10 Thomson stream, wherein, for the expansion of the post-compressed and twofold
   boosted first fraction of the feed air quantity, use is made in particular of the above
   discussed Joule-Thompson turbine or a combination of turbine and throttle valves.
    In the context of the present invention, the post-compressed second fraction of the feed
15 air quantity is cooled and is subsequently expanded, using a first turboexpander which
   is mechanically coupled to the first or to the second booster, to the first pressure level
   and fed into the high-pressure column. The first turboexpander is a so-called medium
   pressure turbine, which has likewise already been mentioned above.
20 According to the invention, it is now provided that the first fraction and the second
   fraction of the feed air quantity are post-compressed in the post-compressor from the
   first pressure level to a second pressure level at least 3 bar above the first pressure
    level, and are extracted from the post-compressor jointly at the second pressure level.
    In other words, the Joule-Thomson stream and the pressurized-air stream supplied to
25 the medium-pressure turbine are extracted jointly from the post-compressor;
    intermediate extraction of at least these fractions from the post-compressor is not
    performed. The post-compressed second fraction of the feed air quantity is in this case
    supplied without a further pressure increase to the first turboexpander; that is to say, by
    contrast to the post-compressed first fraction of the feed air quantity, no further
30  boosting is performed.
    In the context of the present invention, it is furthermore the case that impure nitrogen is
    extracted from the high-pressure column at the first pressure level and is expanded
    using a second turboexpander that is to say the already mentioned impure pressurized
35  nitrogen turbine. The second turboexpander is mechanically coupled to the booster

                                                   13
   taken from the group of the first and second boosters, which is not coupled to the first
   turboexpander. (If the first turboexpander is coupled to the second booster, the second
   turboexpander is coupled to the first booster, and vice versa.) With regard to the
   composition of the "impure" nitrogen, reference is made in particular to the
 5 explanations below. Its nitrogen content lies in any case below that of the overhead
   product of the high-pressure column.
   Finally, in the context of the present invention, a fluid enriched with argon is extracted
   from the low-pressure column, is depleted of argon and is recycled into the low
10 pressure column. This is performed in particular using an argon discharge column, as
   has already been mentioned above. An argon discharge from the low-pressure column
   is thus realized by means of the stated measures. In this way, despite an extraction of
   liquid and/or pressurized nitrogen from the high-pressure column that is performed
   according to the invention, the oxygen yield in the low-pressure column can be
15 maintained.
   In the context of the present invention, the impure nitrogen extracted from the high
   pressure column has an oxygen content of 0.1 to 5 mol per cent, in particular of 0.5 to
   2 mol per cent.
20
   As already discussed, the first turboexpander is in particular fed directly from an outlet
   of the post-compressor, that is to say the post-compressed second fraction is post
   compressed and/or boosted no further. In other words, said second fraction is supplied,
   in particular without a pressure increase, and thus in particular at the second pressure
25 level, to the first turboexpander. With regard to the corresponding advantages,
   reference is explicitly made to the above explanations relating to the medium-pressure
   turbine, which forms the first turboexpander.
    In the context of the present invention, the cooling of the first fraction of the feed air
30 quantity after the compression thereof using the first booster and the second booster is
   performed in particular in the main heat exchanger of the air separation plant, wherein
   the first fraction of the feed air quantity is cooled in the main heat exchanger to a
   temperature level of 95 to 110 K, in particular of 97 to 105 K.

                                                   14
   The cooling of the second fraction of the feed air quantity before the expansion thereof
   using the first turboexpander may likewise be performed in the main heat exchanger of
   the air separation plant, wherein the second fraction of the feed air quantity is extracted
   from the main heat exchanger at a temperature level of 130 to 200 K, in particular of
 5 150 to 180 K.
   In the context of the present invention, the impure nitrogen may, before being
   expanded in the second turboexpander, be heated in the main heat exchanger of the
   air separation plant to a temperature level of 110 to 160 K, in particular of 120 to 150 K.
10 As an alternative to this, the impure nitrogen may, before being expanded in the
   second turboexpander, be heated in a secondary heat exchanger, which is provided in
   addition to the main heat exchanger of the air separation plant, to a corresponding
   temperature level.
15 The argon depletion of the argon-enriched fluid is advantageously performed by means
   of a distillation column with fewer than 40 theoretical plates, in particular an argon
   discharge column having the above-specified features. It is however also possible for a
   conventional crude argon column to be used, in particular in combination with a pure
   argon column.
20
   In the context of the present invention, the further compression of the post-compressed
   first fraction of the feed air quantity using the first booster and the second booster is
   advantageously performed to a third pressure level of 50 to 95 bar, in particular of 60 to
   90 bar.
25
   In the context of the present invention, it is advantageously the case that a third fraction
   of the feed air quantity is cooled to the first pressure level and likewise supplied to the
   high-pressure column. This is the regular infeed air into the high-pressure column. In
   the context of the present invention, the first fraction of the feed air quantity may
30 comprise 15 to 40 per cent, in particular 20 to 30 per cent of the feed air quantity, the
   second fraction of the feed air quantity may comprise 5 to 30 per cent, in particular 10
   to 20 per cent of the feed air quantity, and/or the third fraction of the feed air quantity
   may comprise 40 to 70 per cent, in particular 45 to 60 per cent of the feed air quantity.

                                                 15
   Impure nitrogen may likewise be extracted from the low-pressure column and in
   particular be heated together with the impure nitrogen extracted from the high-pressure
   column and expanded using the second turboexpander. As mentioned, the impure
   nitrogen extracted from the low-pressure column and the impure nitrogen extracted
 5 from the high-pressure column and expanded using the second turboexpander
   advantageously have an equal or similar oxygen content.
   The invention also encompasses an air separation plant having a distillation column
   system which comprises a high-pressure column and a low-pressure column, as
10 specified in the corresponding independent patent claim.
   The air separation plant according to the invention, which is advantageously configured
   for carrying out a process as has been discussed above, benefits in the same way from
   the advantages of the process according to the invention in its discussed
15 embodiments. Reference is therefore explicitly made to the explanations above.
    Brief description of the drawings
    Figure 1 illustrates an air separation plant according to an embodiment of the present
20  invention.
    Figure 2 illustrates an air separation plant according to an embodiment of the present
    invention.
25  Figure 3 illustrates an air separation plant according to an embodiment of the present
    invention.
    Figure 4 illustrates an air separation plant according to an embodiment of the present
    invention.
30
    Figure 5 illustrates an air separation plant according to an embodiment of the present
    invention.
    Detailed description of the drawings
35

                                                 16
   In the figures below, elements which correspond to one another are denoted by
   identical reference designations. For the sake of clarity, said elements will not be
   discussed repeatedly. With regard to further details regarding the function of air
   separation plants and of the respective components thereof, reference is made to the
 5 cited technical literature (see for example Hiring, figure 2.3A and associated
   explanations).
   Figure 1 shows an air separation plant which is configured for operation in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention. The air separation plant is denoted as a
10 whole by 100.
   In the air separation plant 100, feed air in the form of a substance stream a (AIR) is, by
   means of a main air compressor 101, drawn in in a feed air quantity via a filter 102 and
   compressed to a first pressure level. The feed air of the substance stream c
15 compressed to the first pressure level is partially branched off in the form of a
   substance stream b (Air1) and is otherwise subjected, in the form of a substance
   stream c, to further treatment in a manner known per se in a post-cooling unit 103 and
   an adsorber station 104.
20 The feed air of the substance stream c compressed to the first pressure level and
   subjected to the treatment is, at the first pressure level, supplied, in one part, in the
   form of a substance stream d for post-compression in a post-compressor 105 and, in a
   further part, in the form of a substance stream e directly for cooling in a secondary heat
   exchanger 106 and a main heat exchanger 107.
25
   In the illustrated example, the post-compressor 105 comprises two compressor
   sections and corresponding post-coolers (not separately designated). In the illustrated
   example, a partial stream of the substance stream d is extracted from the post
   compressor 105 in the form of a substance stream f at an intermediate pressure level
30 (Air2), and the rest is compressed in the post-compressor 105 to a second pressure
   level and exits the post-compressor in the form of a substance stream g.
   The substance stream g is divided into a substance stream h and a substance stream i,
   wherein the substance stream h is supplied at the second pressure level to the main
35 heat exchanger 107, and the substance stream i is subjected to a further pressure

                                                   17
   increase to a third pressure level in a first booster 108 and a second booster 109, and
   is supplied at the third pressure level to the main heat exchanger 107.
   The substance stream h is extracted from the main heat exchanger 107 at an
 5 intermediate temperature level, is expanded to the first pressure level again in a first
   turboexpander 110, which is mechanically coupled to the second booster 109 in this
   embodiment, and (see also link A) is fed into a high-pressure column 111 of a
   distillation column system 10, which furthermore has a low-pressure column 112 and
   an argon discharge column 113.
10
   The substance stream i is extracted from the main heat exchanger 107 at the cold side,
   is expanded using a generator turbine 114 or in a throttle valve (without designation) or
   in both, is thereby at least partially liquefied, and is likewise fed into the high-pressure
   column 111. The expansion of the substance stream i before the infeed into the high
15 pressure column 111 is likewise performed to the first pressure level.
    Impure nitrogen in the form of a substance stream k with the above-stated exemplary
   specifications is extracted from the high-pressure column 111 at the first pressure level,
    is supplied to the main heat exchanger 107 at the cold side (see link B), is extracted
20 from the latter at an intermediate temperature, and is expanded in a second
   turboexpander 115, which is in turn mechanically coupled to the first booster 108 in this
   embodiment. The second turboexpander 115 is the impure pressurized nitrogen turbine
   that has been mentioned multiple times.
25  In the context of this application, the air of the substance stream i will also be referred
   to as "first fraction" of the feed air quality (of the substance stream a), the air of the
    substance stream h will also be referred to as "second fraction" of the feed air quantity,
    and the air of the substance stream e will also be referred to as "third fraction" of the
   feed air quantity. As illustrated here, the feed air quantity is compressed in the main air
30  compressor 101 to the first pressure level. The first fraction and the second fraction of
    the feed air quantity are post-compressed in the post-compressor 105 to the second
    pressure level and are extracted from the post-compressor 105 jointly at the second
    pressure level.

                                                  18
   The first fraction of the feed air quantity is compressed further using the first booster
   108 and the second booster 109 to a third pressure level, is cooled in the main heat
   exchanger 107, is subsequently expanded to the first pressure level, and is fed into the
   high-pressure column 111.
 5
   The second fraction of the feed air quantity, after cooling in the main heat exchanger
   107, is expanded, in the first turboexpander 110 which is mechanically coupled to the
   second booster 109, to the first pressure level and fed into the high-pressure column
   111. Impure nitrogen is extracted at the first pressure level from the high-pressure
10 column and is expanded in the second turboexpander 115, which is mechanically
   coupled to the first booster 108.
   The third fraction of the feed air quantity, that is to say the air of the substance stream
   e, is supplied to the secondary heat exchanger 106 in the form of two partial streams 1
15 and m, wherein the partial stream I is extracted from the secondary heat exchanger
   106 at the cold side and the partial stream m is extracted from the secondary heat
   exchanger 106 at an intermediate temperature. The partial stream m is cooled further
   in, and extracted at the cold side from, the main heat exchanger 107. Optionally, as
   illustrated in the form of a substance stream z shown by dashed lines, a partial quantity
20 of the third fraction of the feed air quantity may however also be cooled only in the
   main heat exchanger 107. The third fraction of the feed air quantity is ultimately
   likewise fed into the high-pressure column 111.
   An oxygen-enriched liquid is drawn off, in the form of a substance stream n, from the
25 bottom of the high-pressure column 111, is conducted through a subcooler 116 and,
   after use as cooling medium in a top condenser of the argon discharge column 113, is
   fed into the low-pressure column 112.
   Gaseous nitrogen is extracted, in the form of a substance stream o, from the top of the
30 high-pressure column 111, is heated in the main heat exchanger 107, and is made
   available in the form of one or more pressure products (seal gas, PGAN). Further
   gaseous nitrogen is drawn off, in the form of a substance stream p,from the top of the
   high-pressure column 111 and is at least partially liquefied in a main condenser 117
   which connects the high-pressure column 111 and the low-pressure column 112 in
35 heat-exchanging fashion. A partial stream q is recycled into the high-pressure column

                                                 19
   111, a partial stream r is conducted through the subcooler 116 and is made available
   as liquid nitrogen product (LIN). In addition to the mentioned substance stream k,
   impure nitrogen is also drawn off in liquid form, in the form of a substance stream s,
   from the high-pressure column 111, conducted through the subcooler 116 and fed into
 5 the low-pressure column 112.
   Oxygen is drawn off, in the form of a substance stream t, from the bottom of the low
   pressure column 112, is increased in pressure in the liquid state in a pump 118
   (internal compression), is at least partially heated in the main heat exchanger 107 in
10 the form of substance streams u and v and changed into the gaseous or supercritical
   state, and is output as corresponding pressure products (IC GOX1, IC GOX2). Further
   oxygen is drawn off, in the form of a substance stream w, from the low-pressure
   column 112, is partially conducted through the subcooler 116, and is output as liquid
   product (LOX). The stream w may possibly also be branched off from the substance
15 stream at the pump outlet or from the substance stream v, throttled to a lower pressure,
   supplied to the subcooler 116 and subsequently output as product.
    Impure nitrogen drawn off from the top of the low-pressure column 112 is conducted in
   the form of a substance stream x through the subcooler 116, is subsequently heated in
20 parts in the secondary heat exchanger 106 and in the main heat exchanger 107, and is
   finally utilized as desired and in accordance with demand in the post-cooling unit 103
   and/or in the adsorber station 104 (in this regard, see also link C).
    Fluid drawn off from the top of the argon discharge column 113 (in this regard, see also
25  link D) can be heated in the secondary heat exchanger 106 and released to the
   atmosphere (ATM). Thus, no argon product is obtained, it rather being the case that
   argon is merely discharged. As already mentioned above, a corresponding plant may
    however also be equipped with a conventional argon system, which may comprise in
    particular a crude argon column and a pure argon column.
30
   Whereas figure 1 illustrates an air separation plant 100 in which the substance stream
    k, that is to say the impure nitrogen from the high-pressure column 111, is fed, after
    being expanded in the turboexpander 115, to that fraction of the substance stream x
   which is conducted through the main heat exchanger 107, figure 2 illustrates an air

                                                  20
   separation plant in which the feed to the fraction conducted through the secondary heat
   exchanger 106 is illustrated.
   In the air separation plant illustrated in figure 3, the substance stream m is conducted
 5 not through the secondary heat exchanger 106 but through the main heat exchanger
   107 (correspondingly to the substance stream z in figures 1 and 2). In the secondary
   heat exchanger 106, it is instead the case that the substance stream k (see links B and
   E) is heated.
10 In the air separation plant illustrated in figure 4, the secondary heat exchanger 106 is
   not provided, and the substance stream e is therefore conducted entirely through the
   main heat exchanger 107. Correspondingly, the substance stream x is heated entirely
   in the main heat exchanger 107. The substance stream y is also heated in the main
   heat exchanger 107.
15
   In the air separation plant illustrated in figure 4, the low-pressure column 112 has been
   expanded to include a section 112a for obtaining low-pressure nitrogen. A low-pressure
   nitrogen stream  j can therefore   be drawn off from the top of the low-pressure column
   112. The low-pressure nitrogen stream j is conducted through the subcooler 116 and is
20 heated in a separate passage of the main heat exchanger 107. A partial stream of the
   substance stream r can be applied in liquid form to the top of the low-pressure column
   112. The embodiment illustrated in figure 4 may basically be realized with all of the
   heat exchanger configurations shown in the preceding figures, that is to say the
   secondary heat exchanger 106 may be present or absent.
25

                                                 21
                                              Claims
   1.  Process for producing one or more air products by cryogenic separation of air in an
       air separation plant having a distillation column system which comprises a high
       pressure column, which is operated at a first pressure level, and a low-pressure
 5     column, wherein
   -   a feed air quantity is compressed in a main air compressor to the first pressure
       level, from which a first fraction and a second fraction are post-compressed in a
       post-compressor and a third fraction is compressed only to the first pressure level
10     and is fed at the first pressure level into the high-pressure column,
   -   the post-compressed first fraction of the feed air quantity is successively
       compressed further using a first booster and a second booster and is subsequently
       cooled, expanded to the first pressure level and fed in at least partially liquefied
15     form into the high-pressure column, and
   -   the post-compressed second fraction of the feed air quantity is cooled and is
       subsequently expanded, using a first turboexpander which is mechanically coupled
       to the first or to the second booster, to the first pressure level and fed into the high
20     pressure column,
   wherein
   -   the first fraction and the second fraction of the feed air quantity are post
25     compressed in the post-compressor from the first pressure level to a second
       pressure level at least 3 bar above the first pressure level, and are extracted from
       the post-compressor jointly at the second pressure level,
   -   impure nitrogen, the nitrogen content of which lies below the overhead product of
30     the high-pressure column, is extracted from the high-pressure column at the first
       pressure level and is expanded using a second turboexpander,

                                                 22
   -  the second turboexpander is mechanically coupled to the booster taken from the
      group of the first and second boosters, which is not coupled to the first
      turboexpander, and
 5 -  a fluid enriched with argon is extracted from the low-pressure column, is depleted
      of argon and is recycled into the low-pressure column.
   2. Process according to Claim 1, in which the impure nitrogen has an oxygen content
      of 0.5 to 2 mol per cent.
10
   3. Process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, in which the post-compressed second
      fraction of the feed air quantity is supplied without a further pressure increase to
      the first turboexpander.
15 4. Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the cooling of the
      first fraction of the feed air quantity after the compression thereof using the first
      booster and the second booster is performed in the main heat exchanger of the air
      separation plant, wherein the first fraction of the feed air quantity is extracted from
      the main heat exchanger at a temperature level of 95 to 110 K.
20
   5. Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the cooling of the
      second fraction of the feed air quantity before the expansion thereof using the first
      turboexpander is performed in the main heat exchanger of the air separation plant,
      wherein the second fraction of the feed air quantity is extracted from the main heat
25    exchanger at a temperature level of 150 to 180 K.
   6. Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the impure
      nitrogen, before being expanded in the second turboexpander, is heated in the
      main heat exchanger of the air separation plant to a temperature level of 120 to
30    150 K.
   7. Process according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, in which the impure nitrogen,
      before being expanded in the second turboexpander, is heated in a secondary
      heat exchanger, which is provided in addition to the main heat exchanger of the air
35    separation plant, to a temperature level of 120 to 150 K.

                                                  23
   8.  Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the argon
       depletion of the argon-enriched fluid is performed by means of a distillation column
       with fewer than 40 theoretical plates.
 5
   9.  Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the further
       compression of the post-compressed first fraction of the feed air quantity using the
       first booster and the second booster is performed to a third pressure level of 60 to
       90 bar.
10
   10. Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the third fraction of
       the feed air quantity is cooled to the first pressure level and supplied to the high
       pressure column.
15 11. Process according to Claim 10, in which the first fraction of the feed air quantity
       comprises 20 to 30 per cent of the feed air quantity, the second fraction of the feed
       air quantity comprises 10 to 20 per cent of the feed air quantity, and/or the third
       fraction of the feed air quantity comprises 45 to 60 per cent of the feed air quantity.
20 12. Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which impure nitrogen is
       extracted from the low-pressure column and is heated together with the impure
       nitrogen extracted from the high-pressure column and expanded using the second
       turboexpander.
25 12. Process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the first
       turboexpander is mechanically coupled to the second booster.
   13. Air separation plant having a distillation column system which comprises a high
       pressure column, which is designed for operation at a first pressure level, and a
30     low-pressure column, wherein the air separation plant has:
       -     a main air compressor which is designed for compressing a feed air quantity
             to the first pressure level, a post-compressor which is designed for post
             compressing a first fraction and a second fraction of the feed air quantity, and
35           means which are designed for compressing a third fraction of the feed air

                                             24
      quantity only to the first pressure level and feeding said third fraction into the
      high-pressure column at the first pressure level,
   -  a first booster and a second booster which are designed for successively
 5    further compressing the post-compressed first fraction of the feed air quantity,
      wherein means are provided which are designed for subsequently cooling the
      first fraction, expanding said first fraction to the first pressure level and feeding
      said first fraction in at least partially liquefied form into the high-pressure
      column, and
10
   -  means which are designed for cooling the post-compressed second fraction of
      the feed air quantity, and a first turboexpander which is mechanically coupled
      to the first or to the second booster and which is designed for subsequently
      expanding the second fraction of the feed air quantity to the first pressure level
15    and feeding said second fraction into the high-pressure column,
   -  means which are designed for post-compressing the first fraction and the
      second fraction of the feed air quantity in the post-compressor from the first
      pressure level to a second pressure level at least 3 bar above the first
20     pressure level, and extracting said first fraction and second fraction from the
       post-compressor jointly at the second pressure level,
   -   means which are designed for extracting impure nitrogen, the nitrogen content
      of which lies below the overhead product of the high-pressure column, from
25    the high-pressure column at the first pressure level and expanding said impure
       nitrogen using a second turboexpander,
   wherein
30 -  the second turboexpander is mechanically coupled to the booster taken from
      the group of the first and second boosters, which is not coupled to the first
      turboexpander, and
   -   extracting a fluid enriched with argon from the low-pressure column, depleting
35     said fluid of argon and recycling said fluid into the low-pressure column.

                                             25
  14. Air separation plant according to Claim 13, which is designed for carrying out a
      process according to any one of Claims 1 to 12.
5 15. A product produced by the process according to any one of Claims 1 to 12.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
