                                           ABSTRACT
         The present invention relates to novel immunogens based on overlapping peptides
(OLPs) and peptides derived therefrom useful for the prevention and treatment of AIDS and
its related opportunistic diseases. The invention also relates to isolated nucleic acids, vectors
and host cells expressing these immunogens as well as vaccines including said immunogens.

                                                   1
                          IMMUNOGENS FOR HIV VACCINATION
   The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2013213564, which is the Australian national phase application of PCT/EP2013/051596
 5 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
   This application claims the benefit of EP Application No EP12382031.8, filed 27 January
   2012, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
10 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to novel immunogens based on overlapping peptides
   (OLPs) and peptides derived therefrom. It also relates to isolated nucleic acids expressing
   these immunogens as well as vectors and cells comprising such nucleic acids. The
15 compounds of the present invention are useful as vaccines, particularly for the prevention
   and treatment of AIDS and opportunistic diseases.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
20         HIV infection induces strong and broadly directed, HLA class I restricted T cell
   responses for which specific epitopes and restricting HLA alleles have been implicated in
   the relative in vivo control. See Brander C, et al., Current Opinion Immunol. 2006; 18:1-8.
   While the bulk of the anti-viral CTL response appears to be HLA-B restricted, the relative
   contribution of targeted viral regions and restricting HLA molecules on the effectiveness of
25 these responses remains obscure. See Kiepiela P, et al., Nature 2004; 432:769-775 and
   Ngumbela K, et al., AIDS Res. Hum. Retroviruses 2008; 24:72-82.
           In addition, the role that HIV sequence diversity plays in the in vivo relevance of
   virus-specific T cell immunity is unclear, as functional constraints of escape variants,
   codon-usage at individual protein positions, T cell receptor (TCR) plasticity and functional
30 avidity and cross-reactivity potential may all contribute to the overall effectiveness of a
   specific T cell response. See Brockman M, et al., J. Virol. 2007; 81: 12608-12618 and
   Yerly D, et al., J. Virol. 2008; 82:3147-3153. Of note, T cell responses to HIV Gag have
   most consistently been associated with reduced viral loads in both, HIV clade B and clade

                                                 2
   C infected cohorts. See Zuiiga R, et al., J. Virol. 2006; 80:3122-3125 and Kiepiela P, et
   al., Nat. Med. 2007; 13:46-53.
           However, none of these analyses assessed the role of responses to shorter regions of
   the targeted protein(s) that may induce particularly effective responses. In addition, it is
 5 unclear whether the relative benefit of Gag is due to any other specific characteristic of this
   protein, such as expression levels, amino acid composition and inherently greater
   immunogenicity. It is thus feasible that protein subunits outside of Gag and within these,
   specific short epitope-rich regions could be identified          that: i)  induce responses
   predominantly seen in HIV controllers and ii) which would be detectable in individuals of
10 diverse HLA types, not limited to individuals expressing alleles previously associated with
   effective viral control.
           While some of the earlier studies have indeed controlled for a potential over
   representation of Gag-derived epitopes presented on "good" HLA class I alleles, concerns
   remain that a purely Gag-based HIV vaccine might mainly benefit those people with an
15 advantageous HLA genotype and will not take advantage of potentially beneficial targets
   outside of Gag. See Kiepiela, 2007, supra and Honeyborne I, et al., J. Virol. 2007;
   81:3667-3672. In addition, CTL escape and viral fitness studies have largely been limited
   to Gag-derived epitopes presented in the context of relatively protective HLA alleles such
   as HLA-B57 and -B27. See Schneidewind A, et al., J. Virol. 2007; 81:12382-12393 and
20 Leslie A, et al., Nat. Med. 2004; 10:282-289. The available information may thus not
   provide relevant information for immunogen sequences designed to protect the genetically
   diverse majority of the human host population.
           Furthermore, many studies have focused on immunodominant targets only, despite
   some recent studies in HIV and SIV infection demonstrating a crucial contribution of sub
25 dominant responses in in vivo viral control, among them targets located outside of Gag. See
   Frahm N, et al., Nat. Immunol. 2006; 7:173-178 and Friedrich T, et al., J. Virol. 2007;
   81:3465-3476. Together, the current view on what may constitute a protective cellular
   immune response to HIV is thus quite likely biased towards a focus on immunodominant
   responses and on responses restricted by frequent HLA class I alleles and HLA alleles
30 associated with superior disease outcome. Therefore, the development of HIV vaccines is
   limited in part by the lack of immunogens capable of inducing a broad immune response.
   The present invention addresses the design of such immunogens.

                                                  3
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In a first aspect, the invention relates to an immunogenic polypeptide having an
   amino acid sequence comprising the sequences SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants of said SEQ
 5 ID NO:1-16, wherein each of said variants has a length of at least 8 amino acids, with the
   provisos that said amino acid sequence does not comprise any sequence stretches derived
   from the HIV genome of a length of 8 or more amino acids other than an amino acid
   sequence according to any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or the variants thereof.
           In a second aspect, the invention relates to an immunogenic polypeptide having an
10 amino acid sequence comprising at least one sequence selected from the group consisting
   of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants thereof wherein said variant has a length of at least 8
   amino acids, with the provisos that:
           i) said immunogen amino acid sequence does not comprise any sequence stretches
               derived from the HIV genome of a length of 8 or more amino acids other than
15             an amino acid sequence according to any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or a variant or a
               fragment thereof, and
           ii) when the immunogen comprises only one sequence selected from the group
               consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16, then this sequence is not selected from the
               group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 3, 5, 6 and 16.
20         In further aspects, the invention relates to nucleic acids encoding for the
   immunogens of the first aspect and second aspects, and to expression cassettes, vectors, a
   viruses and cells comprising said nucleic acids.
           In another aspect, the present invention relates to a vaccine comprising an
   immunogenic polypeptide according to any of claims 1 to 11 and one or more adjuvants.
25         In another aspect, the present invention relates to the immunogenic polypeptide, the
   nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression vector, the virus or the cell of the third
   aspect, or the composition vaccine for use in medicine.
           In another aspect, the present invention relates to the immunogenic polypeptide, the
   nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression vector, the virus or the cell of the third
30 aspect, or the composition vaccine for use in the prevention or treatment of an HIV
   infection or a disease associated with an HIV infection.

                                                    4
           In another aspect, the present invention relates to a kit comprising the immunogen
   of the first and/or second aspects, the nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression
   vector, the virus or the cell of the third aspect, or the composition of the fourth aspect.
 5 DEPOSIT OF MICROORGANISMS
           The plasmid 298H GMCSF-HIVACAT DNA was deposited on January                   1 3th 2012,
   under    accession   number     DSM      25555    at   the  DSMZ-Deutsche      Sammlung       von
   Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen, InhoffenstraBe 7 B, D-38124 Braunschweig, Federal
10 Republic of Germany.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            Figure 1. Schematic representation of the gene included in the expression plasmid.
15 Dots identify start and stop codons.
           Figure 2. Cellular immune responses analyzed in pooled splenocytes by flow
   cytometric analysis. Frequency of total Gag, Pol, and Nef-Tat-Vif specific interferon
   gamma responses among groups in (a) and distribution of CD4 and CD8 responses in (b)
   are shown.
20         Figure 3. Responses to Gag, Pol, NTV and the HIVACAT T cell immunogen
   sequence measured by interferon gamma ELISpot assay in murine splenocytes. The
   individual mice were immunized with the plasmids encoding for the full Gag, Pol and Nef
   Tat-Vif polypeptide. Contribution of the responses targeting the regions included in the
   HIVACAT T cell immunogen to the total interferon gamma Gag-Pol-NTV specific
25 response is shown.
           Figure 4. Comparison of the breadth in (a) and magnitude in (b) of the interferon
   gamma responses targeting the HIVACAT T cell immunogen in immunized mice. The
   subjects were treated with either the plasmids encoding the full proteins or the minimal T
   cell sequence.
30         Figure 5. Balance of interferon gamma responses against Gag, Pol, Vif or Nef for
   mice immunized with 20 [g of plasmids encoding full Gag, Pol plus Nef-Tat-Vif
   polypeptide and HIVACAT T cell immunogen. Dominance of Gag-specific responses in

                                                5
   shown in panel (a) for mice immunized with full proteins whereas a more balance
   repertoire in seen in panel (b) for mice immunized with the HIVACAT T cell immunogen.
           Figure 6. Binding antibodies to p24, p37 and p55 detected by Western immunoblot
   by using cell extracts from HEK 293 cells transfected with the 1mg of gag and gag-pol
 5 expression vectors (showing p55 gag, and processed p24, p37 and p55 gag subunits)
   separated on 12% SDS-Page and probing the membranes with a) human sera of and HIV
   infected patient, b) pooled sera from mice immunized with high doses of the immunogen
   and c) pooled sera from mice immunized with low doses of the immunogen (all at a 1:100
   dilution).
10         Figure 7. a) Endpoint titers of Gag-p24 specific binding antibody from treated
   mice. The determination was performed by ELISA from individual serial 4-fold diluted
   pooled serum samples. b) In house developed gag p55 ELISA using the HIV-1111B pr55
   Gag recombinant protein (Cat. No. 3276, NIH Reagent Program, Bethesda, MD, US). The
   determination was performed in individual mice sera at 1:100 dilution.
15         Figure 8. a) Schematic representation of mice immunizations. Groups of six
   C57BL/6 mice were used to compare immunogenicity of the different heterologous
   combinations (2xDNA prime vs 3xDNA prime followed by 1xMVA boost) using either
    100pg of pDNA-HIVACAT or 10^6 pfu of MVA-HIVACAT by intramuscular injection.
   b) Comparison of the breadth and magnitude of the IFNy responses targeting HIVACAT T
20 cell immunogen in individual immunized mice. c) Distribution of Gag, Pol,Vif and Nef
   specific responses in individual immunized mice. d) Distribution among the 8 protein
   subunits included in the HIVACAT T cell immunogen (Gag p17, Gag p24, Gag p2p7pip6,
   Pol-Protease, Pol-RT, Pol-Integrase, Vif and Nef) in different immunization groups is
   shown.
25
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The invention discloses several immunogenic compounds effective for inducing a
   high immune response against HIV in a broad range of subjects. In particular, HIV-specific
30 CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses to key HIV-encoded epitopes have been obtained with
   these compounds.
       1. Definitions of general terms and expressions

                                                      6
            The term "adjuvant", as used herein, refers to an immunological agent that modifies
   the effect of an immunogen, while having few if any direct effects when administered by
   itself. It is often included in vaccines to enhance the recipient's immune response to a
 5 supplied antigen, while keeping the injected foreign material to a minimum. Adjuvants are
   added to vaccines to stimulate the immune system's response to the target antigen, but do
   not in themselves confer immunity. Non-limiting examples of useful adjuvants include
   mineral salts, polynucleotides, polyarginines, ISCOMs, saponins, monophosphoryl lipid A,
   imiquimod, CCR-5 inhibitors, toxins, polyphosphazenes, cytokines, immunoregulatory
10 proteins, immunostimulatory fusion proteins, co-stimulatory molecules, and combinations
   thereof. Mineral salts include, but are not limited to, AIK(SO 4 )2 . AlNa(SO 4)2 , AlNH(SO 4)2,
   silica,   alum,   Al(OH) 3 , Ca 3 (PO 4 ) 2 , kaolin, or carbon.  Useful    immunostimulatory
   polynucleotides include, but are not limited to, CpG oligonucleotides with or without
   immune stimulating complexes (ISCOMs), CpG oligonucleotides with or without
15 polyarginine, poly IC or poly AU acids. Toxins include cholera toxin. Saponins include,
   but are not limited to, QS21, QS17 or QS7. An example of a useful immunostimulatory
   fusion protein is the fusion protein of IL-2 with the Fc fragment of immunoglobulin.
   Useful immunoregulatory molecules include, but are not limited to, CD40L and CD1a
   ligand. Cytokines useful as adjuvants include, but are not limited to, IL-I, IL-2, IL-4,
20 GMCSF, IL-12, IL-15, IGF-1, IFN-a, IFN-, and interferon gamma. Also, examples of are
   muramyl dipeptides, N-acetyl-muramyl-L-threonyl-D-isoglutamine (thr-DMP), N-acetyl
   nornuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine           (CGP 11687, also referred to as nor-MDP), N
   acetylmuramyul-L-alanyl-D-isoglutaminyl-L-alanine-2-(1            '2'-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3
   hydroxphosphoryloxy)-ethylamine (CGP 19835A, also referred to as MTP- PE), RIBI
25 (MPL+TDM+CWS) in a 2 percent squalene/TWEEN@ 80 emulsion, lipopolysaccharides
   and its various derivatives, including lipid A, Freund's Complete Adjuvant (FCA), Freund's
   Incomplete Adjuvants, Merck Adjuvant 65, polynucleotides (e.g. poly IC and poly AU
   acids), wax D from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, substances found in Corynebacterium
   parvum, Bordetella pertussis, and members of the genus Brucella, Titermax, Quil A,
30 ALUN, Lipid A derivatives, choleratoxin derivatives, HSP derivatives, LPS derivatives,
   synthetic peptide matrixes or GMDP, Montanide ISA-51 and QS-21, CpG oligonucleotide,
   poly I:C, and GMCSF. See Osol A., Ed., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (Mack

                                                   7
   Publishing Co., Easton, PA, US, 1980, pp. 1324-1341), Hunter R, US 5,554,372, and Jager
   E, Knuth A, WO1997028816. Combinations of adjuvants can also be used.
            The term "AIDS", as used herein, refers to the symptomatic phase of HIV
   infection, and includes both Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (commonly known as
 5 AIDS) and "ARC," or AIDS-Related Complex. See Adler M, et al., Brit. Med. J. 1987;
   294: 1145-1147. The immunological and clinical manifestations of AIDS are well known
   in the art and include, for example, opportunistic infections and cancers resulting from
   immune deficiency.
           The term "amino acid linker", as used herein, refers to an amino acid sequence
10 other than that appearing at a particular position in the natural protein and is generally
   designed to be flexible or to interpose a structure, such as an a-helix, between two protein
   moieties. A linker is also referred to as a spacer. The linker is typically non-antigenic and
   can be of essentially any length (e.g. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
    19, 20, or more amino acids). The linker may also be a location or sequence where the
15 cellular antigen processing machinery can initiate the degradation of the immunogenic
   polypeptide without destroying potent T cell epitopes).
           The term "antiretroviral resistance mutation site", as used herein, relates to a site
   that, when mutated, confers resistance to an antiretroviral agent. Such sites can be
   identified by mining known databases such as the Stanford University HIV Drug
20 Resistance Database, where, for example, sequences and treatments from viruses with
   specific mutations or drug susceptibility data for isolates with selected mutations can be
   retrieved. Assays for testing drug resistance of HIV are known in the art. See Dong J, US
   20040106136 and Shafer R, Assay for Antiretroviral Resistance, HIV InSite Knowledge
   Base Chapter (http://hivinsite.ucsf.edu/InSite?page=kb-02-02-03, January 2012). Already
25 known antiretroviral resistance mutation sites in HIV are regularly published by the World
   Health Organization or the by the International Antiviral Society-USA (e.g. Johnson V, et
   al., ISA-USA Topics Antiviral Med. 2011; 19(4): 153-164.
            The expression "cellular immune response", as used herein, describes an immune
   response against foreign antigen(s) that is mediated by T cells and their secretion products.
30          The term "center-of-tree sequence" or "COT", as used herein, refers to a sequence
   from which the average evolutionary distance to each tip of a phylogenetic diagram of
   related variant sequences has been minimized. See Nickle D, et al., Science 2003; 299,
    1515-1517.

                                                    8
           The term "codon optimized", as used herein, relates to the alteration of codons in
   nucleic acid molecules to reflect the typical codon usage of the host organism without
   altering the polypeptide encoded by the DNA, to improve expression. A plethora of
   methods and software tools for codon optimization have been reported previously. See
 5 Narum D, et al., Infect. Immun. 2001; 69(12):7250-7253, Outchkourov N, et al., Protein
   Expr. Purif. 2002; 24(1):18-24, Feng L, et al., Biochemistry 2000; 39(50):15399-15409,
   and Humphreys D, et al., Protein Expr. Purif. 2000; 20(2):252-2.
           The term "comprising" or "comprises", as used herein, discloses also "consisting
   of' according to the generally accepted patent practice.
10         The expression "disease associated with a HIV infection", as used herein, includes
   a state in which the subject has developed AIDS, but also includes a state in which the
   subject infected with HIV has not shown any sign or symptom of the disease. Thus, the
   vaccine of the invention when administered to a subject that has no clinical signs of the
   infection can have a preventive activity, since they can prevent the onset of the disease.
15 The immunogenic compositions are capable of preventing or slowing the infection and
   destruction of healthy CD4+ T cells in such a subject. It also refers to the prevention and
   slowing the onset of symptoms of the acquired immunodeficiency disease such as extreme
   low CD4+ T cell count and repeated infections by opportunistic pathogens such as
   Mycobacteria spp., Pneumocystis carinii, and Pneumocystis cryptococcus. Beneficial or
20 desired clinical results include, but are not limited to, an increase in absolute naive CD4+ T
   cell count (range 10-3520), an increase in the percentage of CD4+ T cell over total
   circulating immune cells (range 1-50 percent), and/or an increase in CD4+ T cell count as a
   percentage of normal CD4+ T cell count in an uninfected subject (range 1-161 percent).
           The terms "variant" or "fragment", as used herein, refer to a polypeptide derived
25 from any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 by deletion of one or more terminal amino acids at the N
   terminus or at the C-terminus of an individual SEQ ID NO. Variant or fragments
   preferably have a length of at least 8 amino acids or up to 10%, up to 20%, up to 30%, up
   to 40%, up to 50%, up to 60%, up to 70%, up to 80%, up to 90%, or up to 99% of its
   respective SEQ ID NO.
30         The term "HIV genome", as used herein, refers to a RNA sequence approximately
   8749 nucleotide long enclosed by the HIV capsid and encoding the genes gag,pol, env, tat,
   rev, vif, nef, vpr, vpu, vpx, and optionally, tev. The HIV genome sequence underlies high
   variability, for this reason, the HIV genome referred to in the invention is not limited to

                                                  9
   any specific sequence. Preferred sequences are those of the HIV types and subtypes recited
   herein.
            The term "human immunodeficiency virus" or "HIV", as used herein, refer human
   immunodeficiency viruses generically and includes HIV type 1 ("HIV-1"), HIV type 2
 5 ("HIV-2") or other HIV viruses, including, for example, the HIV-1, HIV-2, emerging HIV
   and other HIV subtypes and HIV variants, such as widely dispersed or geographically
   isolated variants and simian immunodeficiency virus ("SIV"). For example, an ancestral
   viral gene sequence can be determined for the env and gag genes of HIV-1, such as for
   HIV-1 subtypes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, and K, and intersubtype recombinants such as
10 AG, AGI, and for groups M, N, 0 or for HIV-2 viruses or HIV-2 subtypes A or B. HIV-1,
   HIV-2 and SIV include, but are not limited to, extracellular virus particles and the forms of
   the viruses associated with their respective infected cells.
           The "humoral immune response", as used herein, describes an immune response
   against foreign antigen(s) that is mediated by antibodies produced by B cells.
15         The term "immunogenic composition", as used herein, refers to a composition that
   elicits an immune response that produces antibodies or cell-mediated immune responses
   against a specific immunogen.
           The term "immunogenic polypeptide" or "immunogen", as used herein, refers to a
   polypeptide antigen that is able to induce an adaptive immune response (i.e. a humoral or
20 cell-mediated immune response), if injected on its own or with an adjuvant.
            The term "kit", as used herein, refers to a combination of articles that facilitate a
   process, method or application. These kits provide the materials necessary for carrying out
   the application described in the present invention.
           The term "operably linked", as used herein, is intended to mean that the nucleotide
25 sequence of interest is linked to the regulatory sequence(s) in a manner that allows for
   expression of the nucleotide sequence (e.g. in an in vitro transcription/translation system or
   in a host cell when the vector is introduced into the host cell). See Auer H, Nature
   Biotechnol. 2006; 24: 41-43.
            The term "peptide tag" or "tag", as use herein, refers to a peptide or amino acid
30 sequence, which can be used in the isolation or purification of said immunogen. Thus, said
   tag is capable of binding to one or more ligands, for example, one or more ligands of an
   affinity matrix such as a chromatography support or bead with high affinity. Illustrative,
   non-limitative, examples of tags useful for isolating or purifying a protein include Arg-tag,

                                                   10
   FLAG-tag, His-tag, or Strep-tag; an epitope capable of being recognized by an antibody,
   such as c-myc-tag (recognized by an anti-c-myc antibody), SBP-tag, S-tag, calmodulin
   binding peptide, cellulose binding domain, chitin binding domain, glutathione S
   transferase-tag, maltose binding protein, NusA, TrxA, DsbA or Avi-tag; an amino acid
 5 sequence, such as AHGHRP (SEQ ID NO:96), PIHDHDHPHLVIHS (SEQ ID NO:97), or
   GMTCXXC (SEQ ID NO:98); or p-galactosidase. See Terpe K, et al., Appl. Microbiol.
   Biotechnol. 2003; 60:523-525.
            The terms "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier," "pharmaceutically acceptable
   diluent," or "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient", or "pharmaceutically acceptable
10 vehicle," as used interchangeably herein, refer to a non-toxic solid, semisolid or liquid
   filler, diluent, encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any conventional type. A
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is essentially non-toxic to recipients at the employed
   dosages and concentrations and is compatible with other ingredients of the formulation.
   For example, the carrier for a formulation containing polypeptides would not include
15 normally oxidizing agents and other compounds known to be deleterious to polypeptides.
   Suitable carriers include, but are not limited to, water, dextrose, glycerol, saline, ethanol,
   and combinations thereof. The carrier can contain additional agents such as wetting or
   emulsifying agents, pH buffering agents, or adjuvants that enhance the effectiveness of the
   formulation.
20          The terms "prevent," "preventing," and "prevention", as used herein, refer to
   inhibiting the inception or decreasing the occurrence of a disease in an animal. Prevention
   may be complete (e.g. the total absence of pathological cells in a subject). The prevention
   may also be partial, such that for example the occurrence of pathological cells in a subject
   is less than that which would have occurred without the present invention. Prevention also
25 refers to reduced susceptibility to a clinical condition.
            The term "secretion signal peptide" refers to a highly hydrophobic amino acid
   sequence (e.g. preferably 15 to 60 amino acids long) of proteins that must cross through
   membranes to arrive at their functioning cellular location. By binding to signal recognition
   particles, these sequences direct nascent protein-ribosome complexes to a membrane where
30 the protein is inserted during translation. Signal peptides direct translational uptake of the
   protein by various membranes (e.g. endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, chloroplast,
   peroxisome). Leader signal sequences on non-membrane proteins are ultimately removed
   by specific peptidases. Some signal peptides used include MCP-3 chemokine, for

                                                  11
   promoting secretion and attraction of antigen presenting cells; a catenin (CATE)-derived
   peptide for increased proteasomal degradation; and the lysosomal associated protein,
   LAMP 1 for targeting the MHC II compartment. See Rosati M, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
   USA 2009; 106:15831-15836.
 5          The expression "sequential      administration", as used herein, means that the
   administration is not simultaneous, but a first administration is performed, followed by one
   or more successive administrations.
            The expression "substantially preserves the immunological capabilities of the
   immunogenic polypeptide", as used herein, means that the variant shows at least 10%, at
10 least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80%,
   at least 90%, at least 95% or 100% of the ability of the immunogenic polypeptide for
   inducing an adaptive immune response (i.e. a humoral or cell-mediated immune response),
   if injected on its own or with adjuvants.
            The term "treat" or "treatment", as used herein, refers to the administration of an
15 immunogenic composition of the invention or of a medicament containing it to control the
   progression of the disease before or after clinical signs have appeared. Control of the
   disease progression is understood to mean the beneficial or desired clinical results that
   include, but are not limited to, reduction of the symptoms, reduction of the duration of the
   disease, stabilization of pathological states (specifically to avoid additional deterioration),
20 delaying the progression of the disease, improving the pathological state and remission
   (both partial and total). The control of progression of the disease also involves an extension
   of survival, compared with the expected survival if treatment was not applied.
            The term "vaccine", as used herein, refers to a substance or composition that
   establishes or improves immunity to a particular disease by inducing an adaptive immune
25 response including an immunological memory. A vaccine typically contains an agent that
   resembles a disease-causing microorganism or a part thereof (e.g. a polypeptide). Vaccines
   can be prophylactic or therapeutic.
            The term "variant", as used herein, refers to all those amino acid sequences derived
   from any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 by means of modifications or mutations, including
30 substitutions, preferably conservative substitutions, insertions or non-terminal deletions,
   affecting one or more amino acids and which substantially preserves the immunogenic
   capabilities of the immunogenic polypeptide.

                                                  12
           The term "vector", as used herein, refers to a nucleic acid molecule, linear or
   circular, that comprises a segment according to the nucleic acid of interest operably linked
   to additional segments that provide for its autonomous replication in a host cell of interest
   or according to the expression cassette of interest.
 5
       2. Immunogenic polypeptides of the invention
           In a first aspect, the invention relates to an immunogenic polypeptide having an
   amino acid sequence comprising the sequences SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants of said SEQ
10 ID NO:1-16, wherein each of said variants has a length of at least 8 amino acids, with the
   provisos that said amino acid sequence does not comprise any sequence stretches derived
   from the HIV genome of a length of 8 or more amino acids other than an amino acid
   sequence according to any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or the variants thereof.
           In a particular embodiment, the immunogenic polypeptide of the first aspect has an
15 amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 49.
           In a second aspect, the invention relates to an immunogenic polypeptide having an
   amino acid sequence comprising at least one sequence selected from the group consisting
   of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants thereof or a fragment thereof, wherein said fragment
   has a length of at least 8 amino acids, with the provisos that:
20         i)  said amino acid sequence does not comprise any sequence stretches derived
               from the HIV genome of a length of 8 or more amino acids other than an amino
               acid sequence according to any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or a variant or a fragment
               thereof, and
           ii) when the immunogen comprises only one sequence selected from the group
25             consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16, then this sequence is not selected from the
               group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 3, 5, 6 and 16.
           Preferably, the variant according to the first and second aspects is equivalent to its
   related sequence and derives from a different HIV strain or is an artificial HIV sequence.
   Equivalent in this respect means different in one or more amino acid residues, but
30 corresponding to the same sequence (e.g. determined by the position in the genome or
   sequence similarity). In other words, in a preferred embodiment, the variant is a "naturally
   occurring variant", which refers to nucleic acid sequences derived from an HIV genome of
   a presently or formerly circulating virus and can be identified from existing databases (e.g.

                                                 13
   GenBank and Los Alamos sequence databases). The sequence of circulating viruses can
   also be determined by molecular biology methodologies. See Brown T, "Gene Cloning"
   (Chapman & Hall, London, GB, 1995); Watson R, et al., "Recombinant DNA", 2nd Ed.
   (Scientific American Books, New York, NY, US, 1992); Sambrook J, et al., "Molecular
 5 Cloning. A Laboratory Manual" (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
   Harbor, NY, US, 1989). Preferably, a variant of any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 has an amino
   acid sequence identity of at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least
   98%, or at least 99% to its corresponding (i.e. SEQ ID NOs 1-16). Examples of algorithms
   suitable for determining percent sequence identity and sequence similarity are BLAST and
10 BLAST 2.0 algorithms. See Altschul S, et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 1977; 25:3389-3402 and
   Altschul S, et al., J. Mol. Biol. 1990; 215:403-410. The BLAST and BLAST 2.0 programs
   can be used to determine percent sequence identity for the nucleic acids and proteins of the
   invention. Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the
   National Center for Biotechnology Information. See http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast.cgi,
15 January 2012.
           Variants may also contain one or more modified amino acid residues (e.g. residues
   that are modified by the attachment of substituent groups), or one or more unnatural amino
   acids such as beta amino acids.
           Methods for determining the extent of the cellular response are known in the art.
20 Any method suitable for assessing the stimulation of T cells in response to an Ag can be
   used. The procedures described below provide a few examples of suitable methods:
            1) Enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot): non-adherent cells from pre-culture
               wells are transferred to a plate, which has been coated with the desired anti
               cytokine capture antibodies (Abs; e.g. anti-IFN, -IL-10, -IL-2, -IL-4).
25             Revelation is carried out with biotinylated secondary Abs and standard
               colorimetric or fluorimetric detection methods such as streptavidin-alkaline
               phosphatase and NBT-BCIP and the spots counted. ELISpot readouts are then
               expressed as spot- forming cells (SFC)/ 106 input cells.
           2) Supernatant cytokine assay: cytokines released in the culture supernatant are
30             measured by different techniques, such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent
               assays (ELISA), BD cytometric bead array, Biorad Bio-Plex assay and others.
           3) HLA Class I tetramers: with this procedure, Ag-reactive T cells recognizing
               specific peptide epitopes are detected, using either commercially available

                                                   14
                reagents (e.g. MHC Class I Dexamers, Immudex, Copenhagen, DK) or in-house
                generated ones (e.g. Novak E, et al., J. Clin. Invest. 1999; 104:R63-R67).
           4) HLA Class II tetramers: with this procedure, Ag-reactive T cells recognizing
                specific peptide epitopes are detected, using either commercially available
 5              reagents (e.g. MHC Class II UltimersTM, ProImmune Ltd, Oxford, GB) or in
                house generated ones (e.g. Novak, 1991, supra).
           5) Upregulation of activation markers (e.g. CD69, CD25, CD137):               with this
                procedure, Ag-specific T cell responses are detected by their differential
                expression of activation markers exposed on the membrane following Ag
10              recognition.
           6) Cytokine capture assays: this system is a valid alternative to the ELISpot to
                visualize Ag-specific T cells according to their cytokine response (Miltenyi
                Biotec GmbH, Bergisch Gladbach, DE). In addition, it allows the direct sorting
                and cloning of the T cells of interest.
15         7) CD154 assay: this procedure is limited to detection of Ag-specific CD4+ T
                cells. See Chattopadhyay P, et al., Nat. Med. 2005; 11:1113-11117 and
                Frentsch M, et al., Nat. Med. 2005; 11:1118-1124.
           8) CD107 assay: this procedure allows the visualization of Ag-specific CD8+ T
                cells with cytotoxic potential. See Betts M, et al., J. Immunol. Methods 2003;
20              281:65-78.
           9) CFSE dilution assay: this procedure detects Ag-specific T cells (CD4+ and
                CD8+)    according   to their proliferation     following Ag     recognition. See
                Mannering S, et al., J. Immunol. Methods 2003; 283:173-183.
           Methods for determining the extent of the humoral response of a variant are known
25 in the art. Any method suitable for assessing the stimulation of T cells in response to an Ag
   can be used. Examples of suitable methods include, but are not limited to, detecting or
   quantitating the relative amount of an antibody, which specifically recognizes an antigenic
   or immunogenic agent in the sera of a subject who has been treated with an immunogenic
   polypeptide or variant relative to the amount of the antibody in an untreated subject.
30 Antibody titers can be determined using standard assays such as enzyme-linked
   immunosorbent assay (ELISA),          Single Radial Immunodiffussion Assay (SRID), or
   Enzyme Immunoassay (ETA).
           In a preferred embodiment, the variant of any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 is a fragment of

                                                     15
   said sequence(s).
            In specific embodiments, ancestral viral sequences are determined for the env genes
   of HIV-1 subtypes B or C, or for the gag genes of subtypes B or C. In other embodiments,
   the ancestral viral sequence is determined for other HIV genes or polypeptides, such as pol
 5 or the auxiliary genes or polypeptides. In yet another embodiment, the viral sequence is
   determined by consensus or center-of-tree techniques.
            In a preferred embodiment, the HIV is a group M HIV. Group M is the
   predominant circulating HIV-1 group. It has been divided into subtypes, denoted with
   letters, and sub-subtypes, denoted with numerals. Subtypes Al, A2, A3, A4, B, C, D, E,
10 Fl, F2, G, H, J, and K are currently recognized. HIV-1 subtypes, also called clades, are
   phylogenetically linked strains of HIV-1 that are approximately the same genetic distance
   from one another;        in some cases,        subtypes    are   also   linked    geographically   or
   epidemiologically. Genetic variation within a subtype can be 15 to 20 percent or more,
   whereas variation between subtypes or divergent members of the same subtype is usually
15 25 to 35 percent. Advances in full-genome sequencing of HIV have led to the
   identification of circulating and unique recombinant forms (CRFs and URFs, respectively).
   These are the result of recombination between subtypes within a dually infected person,
   from whom the recombinant forms are then passed to other people. The recombinant
   progeny are classified as circulating recombinant forms if they are identified in three or
20 more people with no direct epidemiologic linkage; otherwise they are described as unique
   recombinant forms.
            In one embodiment, said immunogen has an amino acid sequence comprising at
   least one sequence selected from the group consisting of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants
   thereof, wherein said proviso ii) is: when the immunogen comprises only one sequence
25 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16, then this sequence is not selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16.
            In a preferred embodiment, said immunogen comprises at least two, at least three,
   or at least four sequences selected from the group consisting of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or
   variants thereof, wherein said proviso ii) is: when the immunogen comprises only two,
30 three, or four sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16, then not
   all of these sequences are selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 3, 5, 6 and
    16. In another embodiment, said immunogen has an amino acid sequence comprising at
   least two, at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight,

                                                   16
   at least nine, or at least ten sequences selected from the group consisting of the SEQ ID
   NOs 1-16 or variants thereof, wherein said proviso ii) is: when the immunogen comprises
   only two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten sequences selected from the group
   consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16, then not all of these sequences are selected from the
 5 group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16.
           In a preferred embodiment, the immunogen according to the first aspect comprises
   the sequences according to SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants thereof in the order 1-16.
           In one embodiment, the invention relates to the immunogen of the first aspect
   wherein at least two sequences are adjoined by an amino acid linker.
10         In another embodiment, the invention relates to the immunogen of the second
   aspect, wherein, if said immunogen comprises at least two sequences selected from the
   group consisting of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants thereof, said sequences are adjoined
   by an amino acid linker.
           In a preferred embodiment of the immunogens of both the first and second aspect,
15 the linker has the amino acid sequence A, AA or AAA. In a another embodiment, when the
   C-terminal residue of the sequence located N-terminally with respect to the linker or the N
   terminal residue of the sequence located C-terminally is an alanine residue, the linker can
   be shortened so that an AAA sequence is formed in the junction region between adjoining
   sequences. Thus, in a preferred embodiment, if the C-terminal residue of the sequence
20 located N-terminally with respect to the linker is an alanine or if the N-terminal residue of
   the sequence located C-terminally with respect to the linker is alanine, the linker has the
   sequence AA. In another embodiment, if the C-terminal residue of the sequence located N
   terminally with respect to the linker and the N-terminal residue of the sequence located C
   terminally with respect to the linker are both alanine, then the linker as the sequence A.
25         In another embodiment, said immunogens further comprise a secretion signal
   peptide at the N-terminus, wherein said signal peptide preferably enhances secretion of the
   immunogen from cells expressing said immunogen. A preferred secretion signal peptide is
   derived from GMCSF (granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor), preferably
   followed by a valine to increase stability. The sequence of the GMCSF signal peptide is
30 preferably: MWLQSLLLLGTVACSIS (SEQ ID NO: 46) or MWLQSLLLLGTVACSISV
   (SEQ ID NO: 47).
           In another embodiment, said immunogens further comprise optionally a peptide
   tag. The peptide tag can be located at the N-terminus between the signal peptide and the

                                                  17
   immunogenic polypeptide or, preferably, can be located at the C-terminus before the stop
   codon.
           Preferably, said tag is a FLAG peptide. The FLAG system utilizes a short,
   hydrophilic 8-amino acid peptide, which is fused to the recombinant protein of interest.
 5 The FLAG peptide includes the binding site for several highly specific ANTI-FLAG
   monoclonal antibodies (M1, M2, M5; Sigma-Aldrich Corp., Saint Louis, MO, US), which
   can be used to assess expression of the protein of interest on material from transfected
   cells. Because of the small size of the FLAG peptide tag, it does not shield other epitopes,
   domains, or alter the function, secretion, or transport of the fusion protein generally.
10 Preferably, said FLAG peptide has the sequence DYKDDDDKL (SEQ ID NO: 48).
           In a preferred embodiment, said tag is only for expression analysis and purification
   of the immunogen and it is removed before using it to elicit an immune response.
           In another embodiment, the invention relates to said immunogens, wherein said
   amino acid sequence comprises at least one antiretroviral resistance mutation site.
15         The mutation can occur at any site within the viral genome. Preferably, the
   mutation occurs in the region encoding the integrase, the protease or the reverse
   transcriptase genes.
           Mutants within the integrase that confer resistance to integrase inhibitors include,
   without limitation, T66, E92, F121, E138, G140, Y143, S147, Q148, S153, N155, E157
20 and R263 within SEQ ID NO: 1 and a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the
   mutation is selected from the group consisting of mutations E92Q, G 140S, G 140A and
   Y143R in the integrase protein and their combinations.
           Mutants within the protease associated with protease inhibitor (PI) resistance
   include major protease, accessory protease, and protease cleavage site mutations. See
25 Shafer R, et al., AIDS Rev. 2008; 10(2):67-84.          Seventeen largely non-polymorphic
   positions are of the most clinical significance, including L231, L241, D30N, V321, L33F,
   M461/L, 147/V/A, G48V/M, 150L/V, F53L, 154V/T/A/L/M, G73S/T, L76V, V82A/T/F/S,
    184V/A/C, N88D/S,      L90M. Accessory protease mutations include the polymorphic
   mutations L101/V, 113V, K20R/M/I, M361, D60E, 162V, L63P, A71V/T, V771, and 193L
30 and the non-polymorphic mutations L10F/R, VIII, E34Q, E35G, K43T, K451, K55R,
   Q58E, A71I/L, T74P/A/S, V751, N83D, P79A/S, 185V, L89V, T91 S, Q92K and C95F.
           In another embodiment, the antiretroviral resistance mutation site is located in the
   reverse transcriptase, resulting in a resistance to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor

                                               18
   (NRTI) or to non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI). The NRTI resistance
   mutations include M184V, thymidine analog mutations (TAMs), mutations selected by
   regimens lacking thymidine analogs (Non-TAMs), and multi-nucleoside             resistance
   mutations (Multi-NRTI mutations) and many recently described non-polymorphic
 5 accessory mutations. Altogether, M184V, non-thymidine-analog-associated mutations such
   as K65R and L74V, and the multi-nucleoside resistance mutation Q151M act by
   decreasing NRTI incorporation. Thymidine analog mutations, the T69 insertions associated
   with multi-nucleoside resistance, and many of the accessory mutations facilitate primer
   unblocking. See Shafer, 20008, supra. M184V is the most commonly occurring NRTI
10 resistance mutation. The most common drug-resistant amino acid mutations are M41L,
   D67N, K70R, L210W, T215Y/F and K219QE. The most common mutations in patients
   developing virologic failure while receiving a non-thymidine analog containing NRTI
   backbone (Non-TAMs) include M184V alone or M184V in combination with K65R or
   L74V. Other Non-TAMs mutations include K65N, K70E/G, L741, V75T/M, Y115F.
15 Amino acid insertions at codon 69 generally occur in the presence of multiple TAM, and in
   this setting are associated with intermediate resistance to 3TC and FTC and high-level
   resistance to each of the remaining NRTI. Q151 M is a 2-bp mutation (CAG.fwdarw.ATG)
   that is usually accompanied by two or more of the following mutations: A62V, V75 1,
   F77L, and F116Y. The Q151M complex causes high-level resistance to ZDV, d4T, ddl,
20 and ABC, and intermediate resistance to TDF, 3TC, and FTC. See Shafer R, et al., AIDS
   Rev. 2008; 10(2):67-84
           NNTRI resistance mutations include, without limitation, the primary NNRTI
   resistance mutations (K103N/S, V106A/M, Y181C/I/V, Y188L/C/H, and G190A/S/E), the
   NNRTI resistance secondary mutations (L1001, K101P, P225H, F227L, M230L, and
25 K238T) and rate mutations (V179F, F227C and L2341).
           Minor non-polymorphic mutations--A98G, K101 E, V 1081, and V 179D/E are
   common NNRTI resistance mutations that reduce susceptibility to nevirapine and efavirenz
   about 2-fold to 5-fold.
           Miscellaneous nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor resistance mutations,
30 such as K101Q, 1135T/M, V1791, and L2831, reduce susceptibility to nevirapine and
   efavirenz by about twofold and may act synergistically with primary NNRTI resistance
   mutations. Other mutations such as L74V, H221Y, K223E/Q, L228H/R, and N3481 are
   selected primarily by NRTI, yet also cause subtle reductions in NNRTI susceptibility.

                                                   19
            Preferably, said antiretroviral resistance mutation site is located in any of SEQ ID
   NOs 9-11. More preferably, said antiretroviral resistance mutation site is amino acid
   residue 8 of SEQ ID NO: 9, wherein the amino acid Leu is substituted by the amino acid
   Met.
 5          In another embodiment, the variant or fragment has a length of 8 to 40 amino acids,
   more preferably a length of 11 to 27 amino acids. Preferably, said variant or fragment does
   not comprise an amino acid linker adjoining any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16. Furthermore, it is
   preferred that the C-terminal amino acid of said variant or fragment is neither G, P, E, D,
   Q,  N, T, S, nor C, as these residues do not form a C terminal anchor for HLA class I
10 restricted T cell epitopes generally.
            In a most preferred embodiment, said variant or fragment is selected from the group
   consisting of the peptides according to SEQ ID NOs 17-45.
            Further, it is envisaged that said variant or fragment is combined with or fused to a
   heat shock protein. The present invention also relates to a fusion protein comprising said
15 variant or fragment and a heat shock protein. Preferred heat shock proteins are Hsp10,
   Hsp20, Hsp30, Hsp40, Hsp60, Hsp70, Hsp90, gp96, or Hsp100.
            In another embodiment, the variant or fragment is a variant or fragment according
   to the first and second aspects. Preferably, said variant or fragment does not comprise an
   amino acid linker adjoining any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16. Furthermore, it is preferred that the
20 C-terminal amino acid of said variant or fragment is neither G, P, E, D,     Q, N, T, S, nor C,
   as these residues do not form a C terminal anchor for HLA class I restricted T cell epitopes
   generally.
            In a most preferred embodiment, said variant or fragment is selected from the group
   consisting of the peptides according to SEQ ID NOs 17-45.
25          Further, it is envisaged that said variant or fragment is combined with or fused to a
   heat shock protein. The present invention also relates to a fusion protein comprising said
   variant or fragment and a heat shock protein. Preferred heat shock proteins are Hsp10,
   Hsp20, Hsp30, Hsp40, Hsp60, Hsp70, Hsp90, gp96, or Hsp100.
30      3. Nucleic acids, vectors, viruses and cells of the invention

                                                  20
            In a third aspect, the present invention relates to a nucleic acid encoding for the
   immunogen of the first aspect, and to an expression cassette, a vector, a virus and a cell
   comprising said nucleic acid.
            Preferably, said nucleic acid is a polynucleotide, referring to single-stranded or
 5 double-stranded polymers of nucleotide monomers (nucleic acids), including, but not
   limited to, 2'-deoxyribonucleotides       (DNA)    and ribonucleotides      (RNA)   linked by
   internucleotide phosphodiester bond linkages. The polynucleotides of the invention encode
   the immunogen of the invention without substantially comprising additional regions of the
   HIV genome.
10          In one embodiment, said nucleic acid is codon optimized. In a preferred
   embodiment, the nucleic acid is codon optimized for expression in humans. Codon
   optimized nucleic acids for use according to the present invention can be prepared by
   replacing the codons of the nucleic acid encoding the immunogen by "humanized" codons
   (i.e. the codons are those that appear frequently in highly expressed human genes). See
15 Andr6 S, et al., J. Virol. 1998; 72:1497-1503. In a preferred embodiment, said codon
   optimized nucleic acid has the sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 50.
            The nucleic acid of the third aspect may require cutting with restriction enzymes in
   order to it ligate into a vector. This procedure could entail the removal of various terminal
   nucleotides (e.g. 1, 2, or 3). As such, in one embodiment, the invention relates to said
20 nucleic acid, wherein it has been cut at each end with a restriction enzyme.
            In another embodiment, the present invention relates to an expression cassette
   comprising the nucleic acid of the third aspect, a promoter sequence and a 3'-UTR and
   optionally    a   selection  marker.   Preferably,  the  promoter     sequence   is  a human
   cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter or an early-late p7.5 promotor sequence. Preferably, the
25 3'-UTR is a bovine growth hormone (BGH) poly-A. The optional selection marker is an
   antibiotic resistance     gene (e.g.   kanamycin,   ampicilin,   tetracycline, spectinomycin)
   preferably.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention relates to an expression vector
   comprising the nucleic acid or the expression cassette of the third aspect.
30          In one embodiment, the vector is an expression vector. Thus, suitable vectors
   according to the present invention include prokaryotic vectors, such as pUC18, pUC19,
   and Bluescript plasmids and derivatives thereof, like the mp18, mp19, pBR322, pMB9,
   ColE1, pCR1 and RP4 plasmids; phages and shuttle vectors, such as pSA3 and pAT28

                                                 21
   vectors; expression vectors in yeasts, such as 2-micron plasmid type vectors; integration
   plasmids; YEP vectors; centromeric plasmids and analogues; expression vectors in insect
   cells, such as the vectors of the pAC series and of the pVL series; expression vectors in
   plants, such as vectors of the pIBI, pEarleyGate, pAVA, pCAMBIA, pGSA, pGWB,
 5 pMDC, pMY, pORE series and analogues; and expression vectors in superior eukaryotic
   cells either based on viral vectors (e.g. MVA, adenoviruses, viruses associated to
   adenoviruses, retroviruses and lentiviruses) as well as non-viral vectors, such as the
   pSilencer 4.1-CMV (Ambion@, Life Technologies Corp., Carslbad, CA, US), pcDNA3,
   pcDNA3.1/hyg pHCMV/Zeo, pCR3.1, pEFl/His, pIND/GS, pRc/HCMV2, pSV40/Zeo2,
10 pTRACER-HCMV, pUB6/V5-His, pVAX1, pZeoSV2, pCI, pSVL and pKSV-10, pBPV-1,
   pML2d and pTDTl vectors.
            In a particular embodiment the expression vector is a mammalian expression vector
   comprising a mammalian promoter and a polyadenylation site. Preferably, the promoter is
   the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. Preferably, the polyadenylation site is the
15 bovine growth hormone (BGH) polyadenylation site. The mammalian expression vector
   can be modified to optimize vector replication in bacteria. The mammalian expression
   vector can further comprise a selection gene, for example, a gene coding a protein
   conferring resistance to an antibiotic. In a particular embodiment, the mammalian
   expression vector comprises a kanamycin resistance gene
20          In other particular embodiment, the expression vector is a viral vector, preferably a
   Modified Vaccine Ankara (MVA) virus vector.
            In another embodiment, the present invention relates to a virus containing the
   nucleic acid of the third aspect. Suitable viruses are safe, have low toxicity and are
   genetically stable. Non-limiting examples are retroviruses, particularly poxviruses such as
25 MVA, lentiviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated viruses (AAVs).
            In a further particular preferred embodiment the present invention relates to a
   recombinant Modified Vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) comprising in a polynucleotide or
   gene construct encoding the immunogenic polypeptides of the invention. Modified
   Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) virus is related to the vaccinia virus, a member of the genera
30 orthopoxvirus in the family of poxviridae. MVA has been generated by 516 serial passages
   on chicken embryo fibroblasts of the Ankara strain of vaccinia virus (CVA). See Mayr A,
   et al., Infection 1975; 3:6-14 and Sutter G, et al., US 6,440,422 and CH 568,392. MVA
   viruses are publicly available (e.g. ATCC accession number VR-1508).                 MVA is

                                                 22
   distinguished by its attenuation (e.g. diminished virulence and limited ability to reproduce
   infectious virions in certain mammalian cells), while maintaining good immunogenicity
   and full capacity to replicate and produce infectious virions in avian cells. Suitable MVA
   strains include strains with enhanced safety due to i) capability of reproductive replication
 5 in vitro in chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF), but no capability of reproductive replication
   in a human cell line, as in the human keratinocyte cell line HaCaT, the human embryo
   kidney cell line 293, the human bone osteosarcoma cell line 143B, and the human cervix
   adenocarcinoma cell line HeLa; ii) failure to replicate in a mouse model that is incapable
   of producing mature B and T cells and as such is severely immune compromised and
10 highly susceptible to a replicating virus; and iii) induction of at least the same level of
   specific immune response in vaccinia virus prime/vaccinia virus boost regimes when
   compared to DNA-prime/vaccinia virus boost regimes. A suitable attenuated MVA strain
   in the strain referred to as MVA-BN. See Chaplin P, et al., W02002042480, ECACC
   accession number V00083008.
15         In another embodiment, the present invention relates to a cell comprising the
   nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression vector, or the virus of the third aspect.
   Cells to be used can be of any cell type, including both eukaryotic cells and prokaryotic
   cells. Preferably, the cells include prokaryotic cells, yeast cells, or mammalian cells.
   Preferred examples of mammalian cells are COS cells, HeLa cells, HEK 293T cells or cells
20 isolated from a patient (e.g. a HIV patient).
        4. Compositions of the invention
           In a fourth aspect, the present invention relates to a composition comprising a
25 variant or fragment according to the first and second aspects and a heat shock protein.
   Immunogenic compositions can be prepared, for instance, as injectables such as liquid
   solutions, suspensions, and emulsions.     Preferred heat shock proteins are HsplO, Hsp20,
   Hsp30, Hsp40, Hsp60, Hsp70, Hsp90, gp96, or HsplOO.
           Furthermore, the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
30 immunogen, nucleic acid, expression cassette, vector or cell according to the invention or a
   composition according to the fourth aspect and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In
   one embodiment, said pharmaceutical compositions and the composition of the fourth
   aspect may be used as a vaccine, as laid out below.

                                                 23
       5.   Vaccine of the invention
           In another aspect, the present invention relates to a vaccine comprising the
 5 immunogen of the first and second aspects, the nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the
   expression vector, the virus or the cell of the third aspect or the composition of the fourth
   aspect.
           In a preferred embodiment, said vaccine is capable of generating cellular and
   humoral responses. More preferably, the vaccine generates a cytotoxic T cell response. A
10 cytotoxic T cell or cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) assay can be used to monitor the cellular
   immune response following subgenomic immunization with a viral sequence against
   homologous and heterologous HIV strains. See Burke S, et al., J. Inf. Dis. 1994; 170:1110
    1119 and Tigges M, et al., J. Immunol, 1996; 156:3901-3910. Conventional assays utilized
   to detect T cell responses include, for instance, proliferation assays, lymphokine secretion
15 assays, direct cytotoxicity assays and limiting dilution assays. For example, antigen
   presenting cells that have been incubated with a peptide can be assayed for their ability to
   induce CTL responses in responder cell populations. Antigen-presenting cells can be cells
   such as peripheral blood mononuclear cells            (PBMCs) or dendritic      cells (DCs).
   Alternatively, mutant non-human mammalian cell lines that are deficient in their ability to
20 load MHC class I molecules with internally processed peptides and that have been
   transfected with the appropriate human MHC class I gene, can be used to test the capacity
   of a peptide of interest to induce in vitro primary CTL responses. PBMCs can be used as
   the responder cell source of CTL precursors. The appropriate antigen-presenting cells are
   incubated with the peptide after which the protein-loaded antigen-presenting cells are
25 incubated with the responder cell population under optimized culture conditions. Positive
   CTL activation can be determined by assaying the culture for the presence of CTL that kill
   radiolabeled target cells, both specific peptide-pulsed targets as well as target cells
   expressing endogenously processed forms of the antigen from which the peptide sequence
   was derived. For example, the target cells can be radiolabeled with "Cr and cytotoxic
30 activity can be calculated from radioactivity released from the target cells. Another suitable
   method allows the direct quantification of antigen-specific T cells by staining with
   fluorescein-labeled HLA tetrameric complexes. See Altman J, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
   USA 1993; 90:10330-10334 and Altman J, et al., Science 1996; 274:94-96. Other

                                                 24
   relatively recent technical developments include staining for intracellular lymphokines and
   interferon release assays or ELISpot assays.
           In one embodiment, the vaccine of the fourth aspect further comprises one or more
   adjuvants or heat shock proteins.
 5         Adjuvants are defines as above. Preferred heat shock proteins are HsplO, Hsp20,
   Hsp30, Hsp40, Hsp60, Hsp70, Hsp90, gp96, or HsplOO.
       6. Therapeutic methods
10         In a preferred embodiment, the immunogenic polypeptide according to the
   invention, the nucleic acid of the invention, the expression cassette of the invention, the
   expression vector of the invention, the virus of the invention, the cell of the invention or
   the vaccine according to the invention can be used in the prevention or treatment of an HIV
   infection or a disease associated with an HIV infection.
15         Thus, in another aspect, the invention relates to the immunogenic polypeptide
   according to the invention, the nucleic acid of the invention, the expression cassette of the
   invention, the expression vector of the invention, the virus of the invention, the cell of the
   invention or the vaccine according to the invention for use in the prevention or treatment of
   an HIV infection or a disease associated with an HIV infection.
20         In another aspect, the invention relates to the use of the immunogenic polypeptide
   according to the invention, the nucleic acid of the invention, the expression cassette of the
   invention, the expression vector of the invention, the virus of the invention, the cell of the
   invention or the vaccine according to the invention for the manufacture of a medicament
   for the prevention or treatment of an HIV infection or a disease associated with an HIV
25 infection.
           In another aspect, the invention relates to a method for the prevention or treatment
   of an HIV infection or a disease associated with an HIV in a subject in need thereof
   comprising the administration to said subject of the immunogenic polypeptide according to
   the invention, the nucleic acid of the invention, the expression cassette of the invention, the
30 expression vector of the invention, the virus of the invention, the cell of the invention or
   the vaccine according to the invention for the manufacture of a medicament for the
   prevention or treatment of an HIV infection or a disease associated with an HIV infection.

                                                  25
           In a particular embodiment, the immunogenic peptide, the nucleic acid,              the
   expression cassette     the expression vector, the virus, the cell or the vaccine for use
   according to the invention, comprises the sequential administration of :
                 i) a first immunogenic peptide of any of claims 1-11, nucleic acid of any of
 5                   claims 12-14, expression cassette of claim 15, expression vector of claim
                     16, virus of any of claims 17-18, cell of claim 19 or vaccine of claim 20
                     and
                 ii) a second immunogenic peptide of any of claims 1-11, nucleic acid of any
                     of claims 12-14, expression cassette of claim 15, expression vector of
10                   claim 16, virus of any of claims 17-18, cell of claim 19 or vaccine of claim
                     20.
           In a particular embodiment, the first the first immunogenic peptide, nucleic acid,
   expression cassette, expression vector, virus, cell or vaccine are different from the second
   immunogenic peptide, nucleic acid, expression cassette, expression vector, virus, cell or
15 vaccine. Preferably, it is first administered an expression vector according to the invention
   followed by the administration of a Modified Vaccinia Ankara virus according to the
   invention.
           In a particular embodiment, the first expression vector according to the invention is
   administered at least twice, preferably at least three times.
20         The beneficial prophylactic or therapeutic effect of vaccine in relation to HIV
   infection or AIDS symptoms include, for example, preventing or delaying initial infection
   of an individual exposed to HIV; reducing viral burden in an individual infected with HIV;
   prolonging the asymptomatic phase of HIV infection; maintaining low viral loads in HIV
   infected patients whose virus levels have been lowered via anti-retroviral therapy (ART);
25 increasing levels of CD4 T cells or lessening the decrease in CD4 T cells, both HIV-1
   specific and non-specific, in drug naive patients and in patients treated with ART,
   increasing the breadth, magnitude, avidity and functionality of HIV specific CTL,
   increasing overall health or quality of life in an individual with AIDS; and prolonging life
   expectancy of an individual with AIDS. A clinician can compare the effect of
30 immunization with the patient's condition prior to treatment, or with the expected condition
   of an untreated patient, to determine whether the treatment is effective in inhibiting AIDS.
           Preferably, said disease is AIDS, ARC or an HIV opportunistic disease. Non
   limiting examples for HIV opportunistic diseases are Burkitt's lymphoma, candidiasis in

                                                26
   the   bronchi,   trachea,  lungs,  or esophagus,    cervical  cancer,   coccidioidomycosis
   (disseminated or outside the lungs), cryptococcosis (outside the lungs), cryptosporidiosis
   (in the intestines lasting for more than 1 month), cytomegalovirus infection (outside the
   liver, spleen, or lymph nodes), cytomegalovirus retinitis (with loss of vision), HIV
 5 encephalopathy, herpes simplex lesions lasting for more than one month, herpes simplex
   in the bronchi, lung, or esophagus, histoplasmosis (disseminated or outside the lungs),
   immunoblastic lymphoma, invasive cervical carcinoma (cancer), isosporiasis in the
   intestines lasting for more than one month, Kaposi's sarcoma, lymphoma (primary in the
   brain), Mycobacterium        avium   complex    (disseminated   or    outside  the  lungs),
10 Mycobacterium kansasii (disseminated or outside the lungs), Mycobacterium tuberculosis
   (disseminated or outside the lungs), Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, pneumonia
   (recurrent in 12 month period), progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML),
   salmonella septicemia (recurrent), toxoplasmosis (in the brain), wasting syndrome and
   any other disease resulting from an infection facilitated by a compromised immune
15 system in an HIV-infected patient.
           The vaccine of the invention may be useful for the therapy of HIV-1 infection.
   While all animals that can be afflicted with HIV-1 or their equivalents can be treated in
   this manner (e.g. chimpanzees, macaques, baboons or humans), the immunogenic
   compositions of the invention are directed particularly to their therapeutic uses in
20 humans. Often, more than one administration may be required to bring about the desired
   therapeutic effect; the exact protocol (dosage and frequency) can be established by
   standard clinical procedures.
            The present invention further relates to preventing or reducing symptoms
   associated with HIV infection. These include symptoms associated with the minor
25 symptomatic phase of HIV infection, including, for example, shingles, skin rash and nail
   infections, mouth sores, recurrent nose and throat infection and weight loss. In addition,
   further symptoms associated with the major symptomatic phase of HIV infection include,
   for instance, oral and vaginal thrush (candidiasis), persistent diarrhea, weight loss,
   persistent cough and reactivated tuberculosis or recurrent herpes infections, such as cold
30 sores (herpes simplex). Other symptoms of full-blown AIDS which can be treated in
   accordance with the present invention include, for instance, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting,
   thrush and mouth sores, persistent, recurrent vaginal infections and cervical cancer,
   persistent   generalized lymphadenopathy     (PGL),    severe skin infections, warts    and

                                                  27
   ringworm, respiratory infections, pneumonia, especially Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia
   (PCP), herpes zoster (or shingles), nervous system problems, such as pains, numbness or
   "pins and needles" in the hands and feet, neurological abnormalities, Kaposi's sarcoma,
   lymphoma, tuberculosis or other similar opportunistic infections.
 5          Beneficial effects of the invention include, for example, preventing or delaying
   initial infection of an individual exposed to HIV, reducing viral burden in an individual
   infected with HIV, prolonging the asymptomatic phase of HIV infection, maintaining low
   viral loads in HIV infected patients whose virus levels have been lowered via anti
   retroviral therapy (ART), increasing levels of CD4 T cells or lessening the decrease in
10 CD4 T cells, both HIV-1 specific and non-specific, in drug naive patients and in patients
   treated with ART, increasing the breadth, magnitude, avidity and functionality of HIV
   specific CTL, increasing overall health or quality of life in an individual with AIDS and
   prolonging life expectancy of an individual with AIDS. A clinician can compare the effect
   of immunization with the patient's condition prior to treatment, or with the expected
15 condition of an untreated patient, or in a clinical trial of individuals treated and untreated
   with the vaccine to determine whether the treatment is effective in inhibiting AIDS.
            The immunogenic compositions can be designed to introduce the nucleic acids or
   expression vectors to a desired site of action and release it at an appropriate and
   controllable rate. Methods of preparing controlled-release formulations are known in the
20 art. For example, controlled release preparations can be produced by the use of polymers to
   complex or absorb the immunogen or immunogenic composition. A controlled-release
   formulation can be prepared using appropriate macromolecules (e.g. polyesters, polyamino
   acids,        polyvinyl,       pyrrolidone,        ethylenevinylacetate,       methylcellulose,
   carboxymethylcellulose, or protamine sulfate) known to provide the desired controlled
25 release characteristics or release profile. Another possible method to control the duration of
   action by a controlled-release preparation is to incorporate the active ingredients into
   particles of a polymeric material (e.g. polyesters, polyamino acids, hydrogels, polylactic
   acid, polyglycolic acid, copolymers of these acids, or ethylene vinylacetate copolymers).
   Alternatively, instead of incorporating these active ingredients into polymeric particles, it
30 is possible to entrap these materials into microcapsules prepared, for example, by
   coacervation      techniques     or    by    interfacial   polymerization,     for    example,
   hydroxymethylcellulose        or    gelatin-microcapsule     and    poly-(methylmethacrylate)
   microcapsule, respectively, in colloidal drug delivery systems (e.g. liposomes, albumin

                                                 28
   microspheres, microemulsions, nano-particles, nanocapsules) or in macroemulsions. See in
   Voller A, et al., Eds., "New Trends and Developments in Vaccines (University Park Press,
   Baltimore, MD, US, 1978) and Gennaro A, Ed., "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences",
    18th Ed. (Mack Publishing Co., Easton, PA, US, 1990).
 5         Suitable dosages of the nucleic acids and expression vectors of the invention
   (collectively, the immunogens) in the immunogenic composition of the invention can be
   readily determined by those of skill in the art. For example, the dosage of the immunogens
   can vary depending on the route of administration and the size of the subject. Suitable
   doses can be determined by those of skill in the art, for example by measuring the immune
10 response of a subject, such as a laboratory animal, using conventional immunological
   techniques, and adjusting the dosages as appropriate. Such techniques for measuring the
   immune response of the subject include but are not limited to, chromium release assays,
   tetramer binding assays, IFN ELISPOT assays, IL-2 ELISPOT assays, intracellular
   cytokine assays, and other immunological detection assays. See Harlow E, Lane D,
15 "Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual" (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
   Harbor, NY, US, 1988).
           The immunogenic compositions can be administered using any suitable delivery
   method     including,    but  not limited   to,   intramuscular,  intravenous,   intradermal,
   transcutaneous,    intranasal, mucosal (e.g. intrarectal, intravaginal, oral), and topical
20 delivery. Such techniques are well known in the art. More specific examples of delivery
   methods are intramuscular injection, intradermal injection, and subcutaneous injection.
   However, delivery need not be limited to injection methods. Further, delivery of DNA to
   animal tissue has been achieved by cationic liposomes direct injection of naked DNA into
   animal muscle tissue or intradermal injection of DNA using "gene gun" or electroporation
25 technology. See Watanabe M, et al., Mol. Reprod. Dev. 1994; 38:268-274, Charnock-Jones
   D, et al., W01996020013, Robinson H, et al., Vaccine 1993: 11:957-960, Hoffman S, et
   al., Vaccine 1994; 12(16):1529-1533; Xiang Z, et al., Virology 1994; 199:132-140,
   Webster R, et al., Vaccine 1994; 12:1495-1498, Davis H, et al., Vaccine 1994; 12: 1503
    1509, Davis H, et al., Hum. Mol. Gen. 1993; 2:1847-1851, and Johnston S, et al., Meth.
30 Cell Biol. 1994; 43:353-365. Delivery can be accomplished via a mucosal surface such as
   the anal, vaginal or oral mucosa also.
        7. Kit of the invention

                                                  29
           In anotheraspect, the present invention relates to a kit comprising the immunogen
   of the first aspect, the peptide or variant thereof of the second aspect, the nucleic acid, the
   expression cassette, the expression vector, the virus or the cell of the fourth aspect, or the
   vaccine of the fourth aspect. These kits provide the materials necessary for carrying out the
 5 application described in the present invention. The kit could also be in the form of a patch.
           In addition, the kit may comprise a packaging, which allows maintaining the
   reagents within determined limits. Suitable materials for preparing such packings include
   glass, plastic (e.g. polyethylene, polypropylene, polycarbonate), bottles, vials, paper, or
   sachets. The kit of the invention can additionally contain instructions for using the
10 components contained therein, in particularly those constituting the hemostatic patch of the
   invention. Said instructions can be found in the form of printed material or in the form of
   an electronic support which can store instructions such that they can be read by a subject,
   such as electronic storage media (e.g. magnetic disks, tapes), or optical media (e.g. CD
   ROM, DVD). The media can additionally or alternatively contain internet websites
15 providing said instructions.
   GENERAL PROCEDURES
        1. T cell immunogen design
20
           The following approach was followed for the design of the HIV OLPs of the
   invention.
           Experimental (interferon gamma ELISpot) screening of 232 HIV infected untreated
   individuals using a consensus clade B peptide set revealed regions of the viral proteome
25 that were predominantly targeted by subjects with superior HIV control. See Frahm N, et
   al., J. Virol. 2004; 78:2187-2200; Mothe B, et al., J. Transl. Med. 2011; 9(1):208. The
   overall test peptide set consisted of 410 18mer overlapping peptides spanning the entire
   viral proteome. Of these, 26 OLPs were identified where the group of OLP responders had
   a significantly (p<0.05 uncorrected for multiple comparison) reduced viral load compared
30 to the group of OLP non-responders (i.e. individuals that did not react to these OLPs in the
   interferon gamma ELISpot assay). These beneficial OLPs had a protective ratio (PR of >1)
   and were located in HIV Gag protein (n= 10), in Pol (n=12), and in Vif (n=3) and Nef
   (n=1) proteins of the virus. Of the 26 OLPs, 15 were partially overlapping. See Table 1.

                                                     30
                                                  Table 1
                                                         Median        Median
                                                                                  Protective
OLP          Protein                                  viral load in viral load in
    Protein           OLP clade B consensus sequence                                Ratio    p-value
No.          sub-unit                                      OLP       OLP non
                                                                     responders     (PR)*
                                                       responders
  3  Gag       p17      EKIRLRPGGKKKYKLKHI                22947        39014        1.053     0.037
  6  Gag       p17        ASRELERFAVNPGLL                 15380        43189        1.107     0.001
  7  Gag       p17       ERFAVNPGLLETSEGCR                25939        38974        1.040     0.049
 10  Gag       p17       QLQPSLQTGSEELRSLY                16285        37237        1.085     0.031
 12  Gag       p17      SLYNTVATLYCVHQRIEV                23855        37113        1.044     0.037
 23  Gag       p24       AFSPEVIPMFSALSEGA                22947        37113        1.048     0.036
 31  Gag       p24         IAPGQMREPRGSDIA                 3563        35483        1.281     0.028
 34  Gag       p24      STLQEQIGWMTNNPPIPV                 6127        37360        1.207     0.002
 48  Gag       p24     ACQGVGGPGHKARVLAEA                 12975        35755        1.107     0.041
 60  Gag       p15      GKIWPSHKGRPGNFLQSR                16266        36434        1.083     0.044
 75  Nef         -     WLEAQEEEEVGFPVRPQV                 13407        37360        1,108     0.026
 76  Nef         -     EVGFPVRPQVPLRPMTYK                 59618        29855        0.937     0.001
 84  Nef         -      NYTPGPGIRYPLTFGWCF                55402        30538        0.945     0.006
 85  Nef         -        RYPLTFGWCFKLVPV                 69890        29903        0.924     0.002
 90  Nef         -      SLHGMDDPEKEVLVWKF                 89687        32650        0.911     0.042
159   Pol   Protease    KMIGGIGGFIKVRQYDQI                14736        36434        1.094     0.020
160   Pol   Protease     FIKVRQYDQILIEICGHK                3682        35755        1.277     0.031
161   Pol   Protease      QILIEICGHKAIGTVLV                9117        35483        1.149     0.050
163   Pol   Protease     LVGPTPVNIIGRNLLTQI               25965        45637        1.055     0.007
171   Pol       RT       LVEICTEMEKEGKISKI                 1865        35483        1.391     0.014
181   Pol       RT     LDVGDAYFSVPLDKDFRK                 65858        32871        0.937     0.041
195   Pol       RT     LRWGFTTPDKKHQKEPPF                  5624        37113        1.219     0.006
196   Pol       RT     DKKHQKEPPFLWMGYELH                 10103        35483        1.136     0.044
210   Pol       RT        EIQKQGQGQWTYQIY                 18155        35483        1.068     0.045
222   Pol       RT      PPLVKLWYQLEKEPIVGA               412599        34640        0.808     0.030
230   Pol       RT         IHLALQDSGLEVNIV                85102        34117        0.919     0.030
237   Pol       RT     VYLAWVPAHKGIGGNEQV                 85102        34117        0.919     0.029
240   Pol       RT        SAGIRKVLFLDGIDKA               116902        32761        0.891     0.019
269   Pol   Integrase   TKELQKQITKIQNFRVYY                 6629        35755        1.192     0.030
270   Pol   Integrase  TKIQNFRVYYRDSRDPLW                 18171        37360        1.073     0.019
271   Pol   Integrase  YYRDSRDPLWKGPAKLLW                 25939        35755        1.032     0.043
276   Pol   Integrase   KIIRDYGKQMAGDDCVA                  6629        35755        1.192     0.021
279  Vpr         -      GPQREPYNEWTLELLEEL                60222        32650        0.944     0.042
307  Env      gp120    DLNNNTNTTSSSGEKMEK                179419        34117        0.863     0.044
311  Env      gp120    IRDKVQKEYALFYKLDVV                179419        32871        0.860     0.008
314  Env      gp120     YRLISCNTSVITQACPKV                58206        31273        0.943     0.008
315  Env      gp120      SVITQACPKVSFEPIPIH               61011        32871        0.944     0.034
320  Env      gp120      TNVSTVQCTHGIRPVV                341587        34640        0.820     0.034
355  Env      gp120    VAPTKAKRRVVQREKRAV                161602        34117        0.870     0.042
399  Env       gp41     VIEVVQRACRAILHIPRR               388089        34640        0.812     0.026
405   Vif        -     VKHHMYISGKAKGWFYRH                 16458        37237        1.084     0.021

                                                                    31
                                                                          Median         Median
                                                                                                     Protective
    OLP                 Protein                                        viral load in  viral load in
                                                                           OLP         OLP non-         Ratio         p-value
     No.    Protein    sub-unit    OLP clade B consensus sequence
                                                                                       responders      (PR)*
                                                                        responders
     406      Vif          -        GKAKGWFYRHHYESTHPR                     16458         37237          1.084          0.022
     424      Vif          -        TKLTEDRWNKPQKTKGHR                     10319         36434          1.137          0.014
   * PR values in bold indicate PR > 1, i.e. OLP-responses seen more frequently in individuals with reduced viral loads.
             In order to build a continuous immunogen sequence, the 26 OLPs were aligned and
   assembled to a total of 16 segments, ranging from 11-78 amino acids in length. The precise
 5 starting and end positions of these segments were based on analyzing residues in up and
   down-steam of the identified 26 OLPs and was based on a number of considerations that
   were applied to the different flanking sites. These considerations included:
              1) OLP immunogenicity data
             2)     Conserved region reactivity data
10           3) Extension or chopping segments for inclusion/exclusion of good or bad known
                    epitopes
             4)     CD4 epitope coverage
             5) HLA coverage
             6)      Sequence variability (2010 consensus and HBX2 defined epitopes)
15           7)     Multivariate OLP analyses
             8) Creation of new epitope/self epitope
             9)     Maintenance of natural sequence though not included beneficial OLP
              10) Introduction of changes to avoid epitope recognition and
              11) Avoid forbidden residues (G,P,E,D,Q,N,T,S or C)
20           This protocol resulted in the design of SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 16 as
   potential immunogens.
         2. Vectors
25           Sequences SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 16 were linked with single, dual or triple
   alanine amino acids between segments to ensure optimal processing and to avoid
   premature epitope digestion.
             Then, the linked segments were used as HIV T cell immunogen sequences for
   inclusion in DNA and MVA vectors. For the delivery of the immunogens using either

                                                 32
   soluble peptides only or in combination with heat shock proteins, shorter overlapping
   peptides (median length 23 residues) were designed that span the 16 segments, not
   including the triple AAA linkers. These OLPs were generated in a way that helped avoid
   forbidden residues at the C-terminal end (important for optimal epitope presentation on
 5 HLA class I molecules. See SEQ ID NO: 17 to SEQ ID NO: 45, , January 2012).       These
   overlapping peptides range in length from 11-27 amino acids.
       3. T cell immunogen
10         The T cell immunogen has been designed as a polypeptide and assembled from 16
   segments of the HIV-1 genome of varying size (between 11 to 78 aa) unified by triple
   alanine linkers. Description of the regions included:

                                                   33
                  T cell
                                            HIV-1       Position    SEQ ID
                                            protein     (HXB2)        NO:
                segments
                  Seg-1           78          p 17        17-94          1
                  Seg-2           14          p2 4        30-43         2
                  Seg-3           11          p2 4        61-71         3
                  Seg-4           60          p2 4       91-150         4
                  Seg-5           14          p2 4      164-177         5
                  Seg-6           15          p2 4      217-231         6
                  Seg-7           27      p2p7plp6        63-89         7
                  Seg-8           55       protease      45-99          8
                  Seg-9           17          RT          34-50         9
                 Seg-10           55          RT        210-264         10
                 Seg-l1           34          RT        309-342         11
                 Seg-12           34      Integrase     210-243         12
                 Seg-13           17      Integrase     266-282         13
                 Seg-14           23          Vif        25-50          14
                 Seg-15           19          Vif       166-184         15
                 Seg-16           13          Nef         56-68         16
            Total length: 529 (including A, AA or AAA linkers)
       4. Inclusion of a leader sequence
 5          Signal peptides are generally highly hydrophobic amino acid sequences (15 to 60
   amino acids long) of proteins that must cross through membranes to arrive at their
   functioning cellular location. By binding to signal recognition particles, these sequences
   direct nascent protein-ribosome complexes to a membrane where the protein is inserted
   during translation. Signal peptides direct translational uptake of the protein by various
10 membranes (e.g. endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, chloroplast, peroxisome). Leader
   signal sequences on non-membrane proteins are ultimately removed by specific peptidases.
            Some signal peptides used include MCP-3 chemokine, for promoting secretion and
   attraction of antigen presenting cells; a catenin (CATE)-derived peptide for increased
   proteasomal degradation; and the lysosomal associated protein, LAMP1 for targeting the

                                                34
   MHC II compartment. See Rosati M, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2009; 106:1583 1
    15836.
           In the present design, the signal peptide from GMCSF (granulocyte macrophage
   colony-stimulating factor) was introduced at the amino-terminus of the immunogen to
 5 enhance secretion of the immunogen from expressing cells, followed by a valine to
   increase stability. The sequence of the GMCSF signal peptide is:
           MWLQSLLLLGTVACSIS (SEQ ID NO: 46)
10     5. Inclusion of a tagfor in-vitro expression experiments
           For the purpose of assessing expression in transfected cells, the immunogen
   sequence first included a FLAG peptide on the C-terminal region, before the stop codon,
   was:
15
           DYKDDDDKL (SEQ ID NO: 48)
           The FLAG system utilizes a short, hydrophilic 8-amino acid peptide, which is fused
   to the recombinant protein of interest. The FLAG peptide includes the binding site for
20 several highly specific ANTI-FLAG monoclonal antibodies (M1, M2, M5; Sigma-Aldrich
   Corp., Saint Louis, MO, US), which can be used to assess expression of the protein of
   interest on material from transfected cells.
           Because of the small size of the FLAG peptide tag, it does not shield other
   epitopes, domains, or alter the function, secretion, or transport of the fusion protein
25 generally. This sequence was removed afterwards for the mice immunogenicity assay. The
   FLAG tag is removed from the final immunogen (298H) before immunization.
       6. Description of the T cell immunogen
30
           The T cell immunogen has the following sequence (SEQ ID NO: 49):

                                                35
   M W L Q S L L L L G T V A C S                  I S I     (E K I R L R P G G K K K
   Y K L K H I V W A S R E L E R F A V N P G L L E T S E G C R Q
   I LG Q L Q P S L Q T G S E E L K S L Y N T VA                             TL Y C V     H Q
   K I E V)si A A A            (K A F S     P E V    I P M    F S A     L)S2  A A A    (G H Q
 5 A A M Q M L K E)s3 A A A               (I A  P G Q M R E P R G S D I A G T T
   S T L Q E Q I          G W M T N N P P I          P V G E        Y K R W I     II L G L N
   K I V R M Y S P T S             I)s4 A A A     (Y   V D R F Y K T L R A E Q A)s 5
   A    (A C Q G V G G P G H K A R V L)S6 A A A                      (C   T E R Q A N     F L
   G K     I W   P S H K G R P GN F L Q S R)s7 A A A                     (K M  I G G I G G
10 F I K V R QY D Q I L I E I                 C G H K A I       G T V L V G P T P V N
   I I G R N L L T Q I G C T L N F)S8 A A A                        (L V E I C T E M E K
   E G K I S K I)s9 A A A              (L R W G F T T P D K K H Q K E P P F L
   W M G Y E L H P D K W T V Q P I                   V L P E K D S W T V N DI             Q K
   L V G K L)sio A A A            (I L K E P V H G V Y Y D P S K D L I A E I
15 Q K Q G Q G Q W T Y Q I Y)sii A A A (T K E L Q K Q I T K I Q N
   F R V Y Y R D S R D P L W K G P A K L L W)S12 A A A                           (K I I R D
   Y G K Q M A G D D C V A)s 1 3 A A               (V K H H M Y I S K K A K G W F
   Y R H H Y E S T H P R)s14 A A A                  (V T K L T E D R W NK P Q K T
   K G H     R)siS5  A A     (A W L E A Q E E E E V G F)S16 D Y K D D D D K
20 L
   wherein,
   the GMCSF signal peptide is shown underlined, the valine immediately following the
   signal sequence is highlighted, the single, dual or triple A (AAA) linkers are shown in
25 bold, the FLAG epitope (removed in the final construct for in-vivo studies) is shown in
   italics and the different segments are shown in brackets as follows:

                                                     36
     Segment number                  HIV polypeptide                   HIV gene
            (...)si                    p17 (Seg-1)
            ... )S2-6             p24 (Seg-2 to Seg-6)            gag
            (...)s7                 p2p7plp6 (Seg-7)
            (...)ss                    Prot (seg-8)
         (...)s9-11               RT (Seg-9 to Seg-11)            pol
         (...)s12-13             Int (Seg-12 and Seg-13
         (...)s14-15             Vif (Seg-14 and Seg-15)    Vif
           (...)s16                    Nef (Seg-16)         Nef
       7. Nucleotide sequence codon optimization
             The T cell immunogen sequence was translated into a RNA/codon-optimized
 5 nucleotide sequence to enhance expression and secretion (Mr. Gene GmbH, Regensburg,
   DE). Codon optimization was based on introducing multiple nucleotide changes to destroy
   the previously identified RNA processing, inhibitory and instability sequences in the
   mRNA without affecting the encoded protein. See Schwartz S, et al., J. Virol. 1992;
   66(12): 7176-7182. This process can also include the elimination of predicted splice sites
10 (score>0.4) from coding sequences by appropriate codon changes, to minimize the
   possibility of splicing.
             As a result of the nucleotide changes indicated above, the final GC-content of the T
   cell immunogen was 63%. The complete codon-optimized nucleotide sequence of the
   immunogen is (SEQ ID NO: 50):
15
              1     ATGTGGCTCC AGAGCCTGCT ACTCCTGGGG ACGGTGGCCT GCAGCATCTC GMGAGAAG
            61      ATCCGGCTGC GGCCAGGCGG AAAGAAGAAG TACAAGCTGA AGCACATCGT CTGGGCCTCG
         121        AGGGAGCTGG AGCGGTTCGC GGTGAACCCG GGACTTCTGG AGACGTCGGA GGGGTGCAGG
         181        CAGATCCTCG GCCAGCTGCA GCCCTCTCTG CAAACGGGGT CTGAGGAGCT GAAGAGCCTG
20       241        TACAACACGG TGGCGACCCT CTACTGCGTC CACCAGAAGA TCGAGGTGGC AGCGGCCAAG
         301        GCGTTCTCGC CGGAGGTCAT CCCCATGTTC TCGGCGCTGG CAGCTGCCGG ACACCAGGCC
         361        GCGATGCAGA TGCTGAAGGA GGCCGCTGCG ATCGCACCGG GCCAGATGAG GGAGCCACGC
         421        GGTTCCGACA TCGCGGGAAC CACCTCGACG CTCCAGGAGC AGATCGGATG GATGACGAAC
         481        AACCCGCCAA TCCCGGTCGG GGAGATCTAC AAGCGGTGGA TCATCCTCGG GCTGAACAAG
25       541        ATCGTCCGGA TGTACAGCCC GACGTCGATC GCTGCGGCAT ACGTTGACCG GTTCTACAAG
          601       ACCCTGAGGG CCGAGCAGGC AGCGGCCTGC CAGGGGGTCG GTGGACCAGG GCACAAGGCC

                                                 37
          661   CGAGTGCTCG CGGCCGCATG CACGGAGCGG CAGGCGAACT TCCTGGGGAA GATCTGGCCG
          721   TCGCACAAGG GCCGACCGGG AAACTTCCTC CAGTCTCGCG CAGCGGCTAA GATGATCGGA
          781   GGCATCGGAG GCTTCATCAA AGTCCGTCAG TACGACCAGA     TCCTCATCGA GATCTGCGGG
          841   CACAAGGCGA TCGGAACCGT GCTCGTCGGC CCAACGCCCG TGAACATCAT CGGCCGCAAC
 5        901   CTGTTAACGC AGATCGGCTG CACCCTCAAC TTCGCCGCAC TAGTGGAGAT CTGCACGGAG
          961  ATGGAGAAGG AGGGCAAGAT ATCGAAGATC      GCGGCAGCTC TGAGGTGGGG CTTCACCACG
         1021   CCGGACAAGA AGCACCAGAA GGAGCCGCCA TTCCTGTGGA TGGGATACGA GCTGCACCCG
         1081   GACAAGTGGA CCGTGCAGCC CATCGTCCTG CCGGAGAAGG ACTCGTGGAC GGTGAACGAC
         1141  ATCCAGAAGC    TCGTGGGGAA GCTGGCGGCA GCCATCCTCA AGGAGCCCGT CCACGGGGTG
10       1201   TACTACGACC CCTCTAAGGA CCTGATCGCG GAGATCCAGA AGCAGGGGCA GGGTCAGTGG
         1261  ACCTACCAGA    TCTACGCAGC AGCAACCAAG   GAGCTGCAGA AGCAGATCAC   GAAGATCCAG
         1321   AACTTCCGCG TATACTACCG    CGACTCGCGG GACCCCCTGT GGAAGGGCCC TGCGAAGCTT
         1381   CTCTGGGCAG CCGCGAAGAT CATCCGGGAC TACGGCAAGC AGATGGCGGG CGACGACTGC
         1441   GTGGCCGCAG CGGTGAAGCA CCATATGTAC ATCTCGAAGA AGGCGAAGGG CTGGTTCTAC
15       1501  AGACACCACT    ACGAGTCCAC CCACCCCAGG GCAGCTGCGG TGACGAAGCT GACGGAGGAC
         1561   CGGTGGAACA AGCCCCAGAA GACGAAGGGT CACCGGGCGG CTGCATGGCT GGAGGCTCAG
         1621   GAGGAGGAGG AGGTGGGCTT CGATTACAAG GACGATGACG ACAAGCTGtg       ataa
   wherein the sequence encoding GMCSF signal peptide is underlined, the valine codon
20 immediately downstream of the sequence encoding the signal sequence is shown
   highlighted, the sequence encoding the immunogenic polypeptide is shown in standard
   letters, the sequence encoding the Flag tag is shown in italics and the tga and taa stop
   codons are shown in lower case.
25      8. Cloning strategy
            The codon-optimized T cell immunogen was cloned into the mammalian
   expression plasmid BV5, which consists of a modified CMV basic plasmid backbone
   optimized for growth in bacteria that harbors the human cytomegalovirus (CMV)
30 promoter, the bovine growth hormone (BGH) polyadenylation site and the kanamycin
   resistance gene--lacking the Xho site. The cloning steps were as follows:
            1) In a first step, an amino acid change from Leu to Meth was introduced into the
                synthesized T cell immunogen -one including the FLAG epitope at RT 41
               position (segment 9) to cover one of the major antiretroviral resistance
35             mutations site. The T cell immunogen gene (starting vector) was cloned in a
                spectomycin resistance harboring plasmid. A PCR-generated segment covering
               the RT M41 change was inserted into the T cell immunogen as Spel/HindlIl.

                                                 38
               Competent cells DH108B were used for transformation and were grown on LB
               spectomycin media. The resulting plasmid was named HIVACAT RT M41.
               Insertion of the point mutation was confirmed by PCR sequencing using sense
               and antisense primers covering the segment 9 sequence.
 5        2) In a second step, the HIVACAT RT M41 gene was inserted to the BV5 plasmid
               that lacks the Xho site in kanamycin resistance gene as SalI/EcoRI, by ligation
               of the vector and the gel purified digested HIVACAT RT M41 fragment.
               Competent cells DH108B were used for transformation and were grown in LB
               Kan media. Resulting plasmid name was 297H (GMCSF-HIVACAT-FLAG).
10             Insertion of the gene was confirmed by restriction digestion and PCR
               sequencing using sense (from the CMV promoter) and antisense primers (from
               the polyA BGH region).
           3) In a third step, the epitope for the FLAG tag was removed from the 297H
               plasmid by BstEII-EcoRl digestion and insertion the annealed primers 298H
15             Plus and 298H Minus:
               298HPlus
               GTCACCGGGCGGCTGCATGGCTGGAGGCTCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGT
               GGGCTTCtgataaG (SEQ ID NO: 51)
20
               298H Minus
               aattCttatcaGAAGCCCACCTCCTCCTCCTCCTGAGCCTCCAGCCATGCAG
               CCGCCCG (SEQ ID NO: 52)
25         The resulting plasmid was named 298H GMCSF-HIVACAT, accession number
   DSM 25555). See Fig 1. Removal of the FLAG tag was confirmed by PCR sequencing
   using antisense primers (from the polyA BGH region).
                                             Example 1
30                                   In-vitro expression studies
           Several transient transfections were performed to assess expression, localization
   and stability of the HIVACAT T cell immunogen.

                                                 39
           Briefly, 1x 106 human 293 cells in complete DMEM plus 10% fetal bovine serum
   (FBS) were plated on to 60mm tissue culture dishes and allowed to adhere overnight. HEK
   293 cells were transfected by CaPhosphate DNA co-precipitation with a total of 7pg of
   DNA (100ng or 250ng of the 297H GMCSF-HIVACAT-FLAG plasmid DNA, 50 ng of
 5 GFP expressing plasmid pFRED 143 topped up to 7 pg with Bluescript DNA).
           6 hours after transfection the medium were replaced with 3 ml of DMEM
   supplemented with 2% of FCS. After 24 and 48 hrs the cells and the supernatants were
   collected in 0.5X RIPA.
           Protein expression was analyzed by Western immunoblots. 1/250 of the total of the
10 cell extracts and supernatants were loaded. The proteins were resolved by electrophoresis
   on 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels (Nu-Page Bis-Tris, NuPAGE,
   Invitrogen, Life Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA, US) and transferred onto nitrocellulose
   membranes.
           297H plasmid was detected upon probing the membranes with horseradish
15 peroxidase-conjugated anti-FLAG monoclonal antibody (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., Saint
   Louis, MO, US) at a 1:3.000 dilution.
           Bands were visualized using ECL. Membranes were imaged on a ChemiDoc XRS
           Positive controls were used and included plasmid DNA encoding for clade B p55
20 Gag, which also harbored the FLAG tag.
           Cell extracts from transient transfections using the 298H plasmid (encoding for the
   HIVACAT T cell immunogen without the FLAG-tag) were probed with human serum
   from an HIV-1 infected subject at a 1:3.000 dilution followed by a horseradish peroxidase
   conjugated human anti-IgG, dilution 1:10.000.
25         297H and 298H plasmids stably (same estimated amount at 24h and 48h) expressed
   the HIVACAT T cell immunogen construct, which was visualized at the cell extract
   compartment. There was no evidence of secretion of the construct.
                                             Example 2
30                                   Cellularresponse in mice
           A stock of 1ml (2mg/ml) of 298H GMCSF-HIVACAT DNA was produced
   endofree for in vivo studies in mice.

                                                40
           Immunogenicity of the HIVACAT T cell immunogen was evaluated in 6-8 weeks
   old female C57BL/6 mice (Charles River Labs, Inc., Frederick, MD, US).
           20 [g and 5 g of DNA was delivered intramuscularly by electroporation using the
   Inovio system (Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Blue Bell, PA, US) in the left and right
 5 quadriceps (20 [tg/50 1dper dose, 25 [d per site) at week 0 and 4. Mice were sacrificed 2
   weeks after the last immunization. Mice splenocytes and serum were harvested for
   immunogenicity studies. Control DNAs used were:
            1) 114H p55 gag clade B: expresses full gag protein;
           2)  132H NTV: expresses a chimaeric protein of nef, tat and vif;
10         3)  133H pol: expresses full pol protein; and
           4) BV4 CMV-kan-Basic: SHAM control, similar DNA plasmid backbone without
               any expressed transgene.
           35 mice were used in the experiment, pooling 5 mice per group. Distribution of the
   immunization per group was as follows:
15
       Groups               Inocula                Delivery    Dose      DNA/Site       n
                            number                                      (quadriceps)
     1             114 p55 gag clade B           I.M. Inovio  20 jg     25mL/site       5
    2              114 p55 gag clade B + I.M. Inovio          20[tg     25mL/site       5
                   132H NTV + 133 pol                         each
    3             298H GMCSF-HIVACAT             I.M. Inovio  20 jg     25mL/site       5
    4              114 p55 gag clade B           I.M. Inovio  5ptg      25mL/site       5
    5              114 p55 gag clade B + I.M. Inovio          5ptg      25mL/site       5
                   132H NTV + 133 pol                         each
    6             298H GMCSF-HIVACAT             I.M. Inovio  5ptg      25mL/site       5
    7 (SHAM)      BV4 CMVKan-Basic               I.M. Inovio  20 jg     25mL/site       5
           Cellular immune responses were characterized on a first step using intracellular
   cytokine staining (ICS) in pooled splenocytes (cells from the 5 mice belonging to group)
   and using a pool of overlapping peptides covering all gag, pol, nef, tat and vif proteins.
20         Briefly, pooled isolated mouse splenocytes from each group of mice were
   incubated at a density if 2x10 6 cells/ml, in 1 ml co-culture overnight, in the presence of
   peptide pools (15-mers, overlapping by 11 aa covering clade B gag, consensus B pol and

                                                 41
   NL43 nef, tat and vif sequences, 1 pg/ml each peptide, total of about 12 hours, 1 hour
   without Golgi stop to prevent cytokine secretion). Surface immunostaining was performed
   with CD3- allophycocyanin-Cy7, CD4-PerCP, CD8-Pacific Blue (BD Biosciences, Inc.,
   Franklin Lakes, NJ, US). Intracellular cytokine staining was performed using interferon
 5 gamma-FITC       antibody    (BD    Biosciences,   Inc.,  Franklin    Lakes,   NJ, US)     after
   permeabilization.
           From the first immunogenicity analyses, both 20 [g and 5 [g of DNA in C57BL/6
   mice did generate detectable interferon gamma -+ responses to full gag, pol and nef-tat-vif
   peptide pools. See Fig. 2a. Distribution of CD4+ and CD8+ responses is shown. See Fig.
10 2b.
           At an individual mice level, responses were deconvoluted using frozen splenocytes
   stimulated with 8 pools of peptides to cover the protein subunits included in the
   immunogen in an interferon gamma ELISpot assay.
           ELISpot assay was performed by using mouse interferon gamma ELISpot kit
15 (ALP) (Mabtech AB, Stockholm, SE) following the manufacturer's instructions with minor
   modifications. For all assays, mice splenocytes were added at an input cell number of
   4x10 5 cells/well in 140[d of Rosewell Park Memorial Institute medium 1640 with 10%
   fetal bovine serum in 96-well polyvinylidene plates (Millipore Corp., Bedford, MA, US)
   alone or with HIV-1- specific peptide pools (14 g/ml final concentration for each peptide)
20 for 16hours at 37 0 C in 5% CO 2 . Eight pools of peptides, each containing between 2 and 12
   peptides of 18 amino acids based on the 2001 consensus-B sequence were pooled into the
   different protein subunits (gag-p17, gag-p24, gag-p2p7plp6, pol-RT, pol-protease, pol
   integrase, vif and nef) spanning the segments included in the HIVACAT T cell
   immunogen.                         See                     http://hiv-web.lanl.gov/content/hiv
25 db/CONSENSUS/MGROUP/Consensus.html, January 2012. The HIV peptides pools
   used in mice immunized with DNAs expressing full gag, pol, nef, tat and vif proteins,
   consisted of 18-mers peptides with an overlap of 11 residues spanning the complete gag (6
   pools, 11 peptides/each), pol (8 pools, 16 or 17 peptides/each), nef (2 pools, 13 o 14
   peptides/each), tat (1 pool, 12 peptides) and vif (2 pools, 12 peptides/each) proteins.
30         Concavalin A (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., Saint Louis, MO, US), at 5 mg/ml, was used
   as a positive control. The plates were developed with one-step 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl
   phosphate/Nitroblue Tetrazolium (BCIP/NBT, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Irvine, CA,
   US). The spots on the plates were counted using an automated ELISPOT reader system

                                                42
   (CTL Analyzers LLC, Cleveland, OH, US) using ImmunoSpot software and the magnitude
   of responses was expressed as spot forming cells (SFC) per million input splenocytes. The
   threshold for positive responses was defined as at least 5 spots per well and responses
   exceeding the "mean number of spots in negative control wells plus 3 standard deviations
 5 of the negative control wells" and "three times the mean of negative control wells",
   whichever was higher.
           1) Dominance of interferon gamma responses developed in mice immunized with
   plasmids encoding for the entire gag, pol, nef, tat and vif proteins was towards regions
   outside the HIVACAT T cell immunogen covered segments (median ratio of responses
10 targeting HIVACAT immunogen regions/total gag+pol+nef+tat+vif was 0.26 (range 0.17
   0.42)) and did not differ among groups immunized with high dose (20tg) or low dose (5
   pg) of DNA. See Fig. 3
           2) Median breadth of responses to protein subunits included in the HIVACAT T
   cell immunogen sequence was 4 (range 2-5) in mice immunized with 20tg of HIVACAT
15 vs 2 responses (range 1-3) in mice immunized with 20tg of plasmids encoding for entire
   proteins (ns) with no significant differences in the magnitude of responses. Six out of the
   eight protein subunits were at least targeted once in the mice immunized with the
   HIVACAT T cell immunogen. See Fig.4.

                                                   43
              HIVACAT                                            Mice making a
                                                                                Mice making a
                 T cell                     Pool       Peptides/    response
                         HIV- 1 protein                                        response (groups
             immunogen                     number        pool     (groups Gag     HIVACAT)
               segments                                            Pol-NTV)
             Seg-1         gag-p17       HTI-pooll        10          0/10           3/10
             Seg-2         gag-p24
             Seg-3         gag-p24
             Seg-4         gag-p24       HTI-pool2        12          10/10         10/10
             Seg-5         gag-p24
             Seg-6         gag-p24
             Seg-7      gag-p2p7plp6     HTI-pool3         3          0/10           0/10
             Seg-8       pol-protease    HTI-pool4         6          4/10           7/10
             Seg-9          pol-RT
             Seg-10         pol-RT       HTI-pool5        11          5/10           9/10
             Seg-11         pol-RT
             Seg-12      pol-integrase
                                         HTI-pool6         4          0/10           0/10
             Seg-13      pol-integrase
             Seg-14            vif
                                         HTI-pool7         4          3/10           2/10
             Seg-15            vif
             Seg-16           nef        HTI-pool8         2          0/10           1/10
        4) Dominance of responses in mice immunized with plasmids encoding the full
            proteins of gag, pol, nef, tat and vif was 89% driven mainly towards gag, while in
            mice immunized with the HIVACAT T cell immunogen at high doses was more
 5          balanced to all protein components        (gag, pol, vif and nef) contained in the
            immunogen. See Fig. 5.
                                               Example 3
                                        Humoral response in mice
10
            Humoral responses were first analyzed in pooled mice sera. Binding antibodies to
   p24, p 3 7 and p55 were detected by western immunoblot by using cell extracts from HEK
   293cells transfected with the 1mg of gag expression vectors separated on 12% SDS-Page
   and probing the membranes with pooled sera from mice (at a 1:100 dilution). Antibody
15 titers to gag p24 were measured by ELISA. Serial 4-fold dilutions of the pooled serum
   samples were assessed and the optical absorbance at 450nm was determined (Advanced

                                                44
   BioScience Lab, Inc., Kensington, MD, US). The binding titers were reported as the
   highest dilution scoring positive having a value higher than the average plus 3 standard
   deviations obtained with control sera from the mice immunized with SHAM DNA.
           a) From the first humoral immunogenicity analyses, the HIVACAT T cell
 5 immunogen induced binding antibody responses to gag p55, p37 and p24 detectable by
   Western blot in the group of mice immunized with 20 [tg. See Fig 6.
           b) Binding antibodies to p24 were quantified by ELISA. The endpoint titers of gag
   p24 specific binding antibody from the mice that received the plasmids described were
   determined by ELISA from individual serial 4-fold diluted pooled serum samples. In the
10 high dose group of mice immunized with HIVACAT T cell immunogen at a titre of
    1:4,000 which were lower to the titers detected in mice immunized with the full gag
   construct. No binding antibodies to p24 were measurable in the low dose group. See Fig
   7a. At an individual mice level, in house developed gag p55 ELISA using the HIV-1111B
   pr55 gag recombinant protein (Cat. No. 3276, NIH Reagent Program, Bethesda, MD, US)
15 was performed with mice sera at 1:100 dilution. Low levels of antibody were detectable in
   2 out of 3 mice immunized with the high dose of the immunogen. See Fig 7b.
                                            Example 4
                    Heterologous prime/boost in-vivo immunogenicity in mice
20
   MATERIAL AND METHODS
   Preparation ofpDNA-HIVA CA T and MVA-HIVA CA T vaccines
           The codon-optimized T cell immunogen was cloned into the mammalian expression
   plasmid BV5, which consists of a modified CMV basic plasmid backbone optimized for
25 growth in bacteria that harbors the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter, the bovine
   growth hormone (BGH) polyadenylation site and the kanamycin resistance gene--lacking
   the Xho site. The plasmid DNA for mice immunizations was prepared using the Endo-Free
   Megaprep (Qiagen) and stored -80'C until use.
           A recombinant MVA expressing the HIVACAT gene was made as described
30 previously {Letourneau, 2007 #235; Nkolola, 2004 #321}.         Briefly, chicken embryo
   fibroblast (CEF) cells grown in Dulbeco's Modified Eagle's Medium supplemented with
    10% FBS, penicillin/streptomycin and glutamine (DMEM 10) were infected with parental
   MVA at MOI 1 and transfected using Superfectin (Quiagen) with 3ug of pDNA-

                                                  45
   HIVACAT carrying the p-galactosidase gene as a marker. Two days later, the total virus
   was harvested and used to re-infect CEF cells. MVA was subjected to five round of plaque
   purification, after which a master virus stock was grown, purified on a 36% sucrose
   cushion, tittered and stored at -80'C until use.
 5 In-vivo immunogenicity in C57BL/6 mice.
           For heterologous prime/boost in-vivo immunogenicity experiments in mice, groups
   of five 6-to 8-weeks-old female C57BL/6 (Harlan Laboratories Ltd., Barcelona, Spain)
   were used. Mice were primed intramuscularly with 100pg of pDNA-HIVACAT (2 or 3
   vaccinations) followed by a 10A6 pfu of MVA-HIVACAT boost (groups: 2xDNA,
10 3xDNA, 2xDNA +1MVA and 3xDNA + 1MVA respectively) All vaccinations were
   separated by three weeks.
           All mice were sacrificed two weeks after the last vaccination in each experiment.
   Mice splenocytes and serum were harvested for immunogenicity studies. Spleens were
   removed and pressed individually through a cell strainer (Falcon) using a 5-ml syringe
15 rubber punger. Following rbc lysis, splenocytes were washed and resuspended in RPMI
    1640 supplemented with 10% FCS, penicillin/streptomycin (RIO) and frozen until use.
           All animal procedures and care were approved by a local Ethical Comitte.
   Overlapping peptides and distribution ofpeptide pools
           To evaluate immunogenicity of the heterologous regimens were pDNA or MVA
20 expressing only the HIVACAT T-cell immunogen and to rule out immunogenicity of the
   potential junctional epitopes an overlapping peptide set of 147 peptides of 15 amino acids
   in length (overlapping by 11 residues) spanning the entire HIVACAT T-cell immunogen
   (including the leader sequence and linkers regions) was newly synthesized using 9
   Fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc)- chemistry. Peptides were distributed in 18 different
25 pools, according to protein subunits and segments of the immunogen (1 pool for the signal
   peptide sequence, n=4 peptides; 7 pools for Gag, n=8-11 peptides/each; 7 pools for Pol,
   n=5-11 peptides/each; 2 pools for Vif, n=6-8 peptides/each and 1 pool for Nef, n=2
   peptides) Results are presented grouped by IFNy responses specific for the eight protein
   subunits (Gag p17, Gag p24, Gag p2p7pip6, Pol-Protease, Pol-RT, Pol-Integrase, Vif and
30 Nef)
   Murine INFy ELISPOT assay
           ELISpot assay was performed by using mouse IFNy ELISpot kit (ALP) (Mabtech
   AB, Stockholm, SE) following the manufacturer's instructions with minor modifications.

                                                 46
   For all assays, frozen mice splenocytes were first thawed and rested for 5h 37 0 C in RIO
   before use. Cells were added at an input cell number of 4x10 5 cells/well in 140[d of RIO in
   96-well polyvinylidene plates (Millipore Corp., Bedford, MA, US) alone or with HIV-1
   specific peptide pools (14 g/ml final concentration for each peptide) for 16hours at 37 0 C in
 5 5% CO 2 . Concavalin A (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., Saint Louis, MO, US), at 5 mg/ml, was
   used as a positive control. The plates were developed with one-step 5-bromo-4-chloro-3
   indolyl phosphate/Nitroblue Tetrazolium (BCIP/NBT, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Irvine,
   CA, US). The spots on the plates were counted using an automated ELISPOT reader
   system (CTL Analyzers LLC, Cleveland, OH, US) using ImmunoSpot software and the
10 magnitude of responses was expressed as spot forming cells (SFC) per million input
   splenocytes. The threshold for positive responses was defined as at least 5 spots per well
   and responses exceeding the "mean number of spots in negative control wells plus 3
   standard deviations of the negative control wells" and "three times the mean of negative
   control wells", whichever was higher.
15
   RESULTS
           In these experiments as no mice were immunized using plasmids encoding for full
   proteins, a second set of overlapping peptides matching the exact immunogen sequence
   was synthesized and used for immunogenicity comparisons. Three intramuscular (i.m.)
20 immunisations with 100pg of pDNA-HIVACAT were able to induce frequencies of IFNy
   responses in all mice that were comparable to the frequencies of IFNy responsed induced
   by immunisations with the electroporation Inovio system. However, two pDNA i.m.
   vaccinations were found to be immunogenic in only three animals (60%) compared to
    100% of animals inducing a responses after three pDNA i.m. immunizations. Interestingly,
25 MVA-HIVACAT vaccine was able to boost responses both in breadth and magnitude, (Fig
   8B) in the two groups analyzed, but did just significantly increase the magnitude of
   responses when mice had previously been primed with three doses of pDNA-HIVACAT
   (Fig 8B and 8C). As seen in the previous EP experiments, a balanced and broad response
   to most of all the protein-subunits included in the immunogen was observed in all animals,
30 without a clear pattern of dominance among them. No nef or gag-p15 specific responses
   were detected in the studied mice (Fig 8D).

                                              47
          While the invention is described in some detail for purposes of clarity and
  understanding, it will be appreciated by one skilled in the art from a reading of this
  disclosure that various changes in form and detail can be made without departing from the
5 true scope of the invention and appended claims.
          All publications mentioned hereinabove are hereby incorporated in their entirety by
  reference.

                                               48
                                           CLAIMS
   1. An immunogenic polypeptide having an amino acid sequence comprising the
      sequences SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or variants of said SEQ ID NO: 1-16, wherein each of
      said variants has a length of at least 8 amino acids, with the provisos that said amino
 5    acid sequence does not comprise any sequence stretches derived from the HIV
      genome of a length of 8 or more amino acids other than an amino acid sequence
      according to any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or the variants thereof.
   2. The immunogenic polypeptide according to claim 1 wherein at least two sequences
10    are connected by an amino acid linker, wherein said linker results in the formation of
      an AAA sequence region in the junction region between adjoining sequences.
   3. The immunogenic polypeptide according to any of claims 1 or 2 having an amino
      acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 49.
15
   4. An immunogenic polypeptide having an amino acid sequence comprising at least one
      sequence selected from the group consisting of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or a variant
      thereof wherein said variant has a length of at least 8 amino acids, with the provisos
      that:
20      i)  said amino acid sequence does not comprise any sequence stretches derived
            from the HIV genome of a length of 8 or more amino acids other than an amino
            acid sequence according to any of SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or the variant thereof, and
        ii) when the immunogen comprises only one sequence selected from the group
            consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1-16, then this sequence is not selected from the
25          group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 3, 5, 6 and 16.
   5. The immunogen according to claim 4 wherein, if said immunogen comprises at least
      two sequences selected from the group consisting of the SEQ ID NOs 1-16 or
      variants thereof, said sequences are connected by an amino acid linker, wherein said
30    linker results in the formation of an AAA sequence region in the junction region
      between adjoining sequences.

                                                49
   6.  The immunogen according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein said amino acid
       sequence comprises       at least one antiretroviral resistance mutation site, and,
       preferably, wherein said antiretroviral resistance mutation site is located in any of
       SEQ ID NOs 9-11.
 5
   7.  The immunogen according to any one of claims 1-6, further comprising a signal
       peptide at the N-terminus.
   8.  The immunogen according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein said variant has a
10     length of 8 to 40 amino acids, more preferably, a length of 11 to 27 amino acids.
   9.  The immunogen according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein the C-terminal amino
       acid of said variant is neither G, P, E, D, Q, N, T, S, nor C.
15 10. The immunogen according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein said variant is selected
       from the group consisting of the peptides according to SEQ ID NOs 17-45.
   11. The immunogen according to any one of claims 1-10, wherein said variant is fused to
       a heat shock protein.
20
   12. A nucleic acid encoding for the immunogen of any of claims 1-11.
   13. A nucleic acid according to claim 12 which has been codon optimized for expression
       in human cells.
25
   14. The nucleic acid of claim 13, wherein said nucleic acid has the sequence according to
       SEQ ID NO 50.
   15. An expression cassette comprising the nucleic acid of any of claims 12-14, a
30     promoter sequence, a 3'-UTR and, optionally, a selection marker.
   16. An expression vector comprising the nucleic acid of any of claims 12-14 or the
       expression cassette of claim 15.

                                              50
   17. A virus comprising the nucleic acid of any of claims 12-14.
   18. The virus according to claim 17, wherein said virus is a Modified Vaccine Ankara
 5     virus.
   19. A cell comprising the nucleic acid of any of claims 12-14, the expression cassette of
       claim 15, the expression vector of claim 16 or the virus of any of claims 17-18.
10 20. A vaccine comprising an immunogenic polypeptide according to any of claims 1 to
       11 and one or more adjuvants.
   21. The immunogenic peptide of any of claims 1-11, the nucleic acid of claims 12-14,
       the expression cassette of claim 15, the expression vector of claim 16, the virus of
15     any of claims 17-18, the cell of claim 19 or the vaccine according to claim 20 for use
       in medicine.
   22. The immunogenic peptide of any of claims 1-11, the nucleic acid of claims 12-14,
       the expression cassette of claim 15, the expression vector of claim 16, the virus of
20     any of claims 17-18, the cell of claim 19 or the vaccine according to claim 20 for use
       in the prevention or treatment of an HIV infection or a disease associated with an
       HIV infection.
   23. The immunogenic peptide, the nucleic acid the expression cassette the expression
25     vector, the virus, the cell or the vaccine for use according to claim 22, said use
       comprising the sequential administration of :
                  i)   a first immunogenic peptide of any of claims 1-11, nucleic acid of
                       any of claims 12-14, expression cassette of claim 15, expression
                       vector of claim 16, virus of any of claims 17-18, cell of claim 19 or
30                     vaccine of claim 20 and
                ii)    a second immunogenic peptide of any of claims 1-11, nucleic acid of
                       any of claims 12-14, expression cassette of claim 15, expression
                       vector of claim 16, virus of any of claims 17-18, cell of claim 19 or
                       vaccine of claim 20.

                                               51
   24. The immunogenic peptide, the nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression
       vector, the virus, the cell or the vaccine for use according to claim 23, wherein the
       first immunogenic peptide, nucleic acid, expression cassette,         expression vector,
 5     virus, cell or vaccine are different from the second immunogenic peptide, nucleic
       acid, expression cassette, expression vector, virus, cell or vaccine.
   25. The immunogenic peptide, the nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression
       vector, the virus, the cell or the vaccine for use according to claim 24, wherein it is
10     administered an expression vector         according to claim      16   followed by the
       administration of a Modified Vaccinia Ankara virus according to claim 18.
   26. The immunogenic peptide, the nucleic acid, the expression cassette, the expression
       vector, the virus, the cell or the vaccine for use according to claim 25, wherein the
15     expression vector according to claim 16 is administered at least twice.
   27. A kit comprising the immunogen of any of claims 1-11, the nucleic acid of claims
       12-14, the expression cassette of claim 15, the expression vector of claim 16, the
       virus of any of claims 17-18, the cell of claim 19 or the vaccine of claims 20.
20

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1                              1/14

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             A
                                    2/14
Fig. 2

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     B
Fig. 2 (cont.)                              3/14

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 3                              4/14

                                                                                                5/14
<removed-date>
              A                          Responses to protein subunits
                              included in the HIVACAT T-cell immunogen sequence
                                                                                   p=0.09                       p=0.54
                                                                        6
                                                  # of IFNg responses
                                                                        5
<removed-apn>
                                                                        4
                                                                        3
                                                                        2
                                                                        1
                                                                        0
                                                                            20              g           5u            5u
                                                                              ug        20                g              g
                                                                                           u
                                                  Po                                 T         Po                AT
                                                     l,
                                                                                    A             l. N        IV
                                                        N                      IV A                   TV         AC
                                                         TV                        C                       H
                                                                              H             ag
                  Gag                                                                   G
                                                                                               .
                      ,
              B
                                                                         Responses to pool of peptides covering
                                                                        the HIVACAT T-cell immunogen sequence
                                                                                   p=0.22                       p=0.30
                  Total IFNg SFC/10 splenocytes
                                                  2500
                                                  1500
                                                  1250
                  6                               1000
                                                          750
                                                          500
                                                          250
                                                                        0
                                                                            20              g           5u            5u
                                                                              ug        20                g              g
                                                                                           u
                                                  Po                                 T         Po                 A   T
                                                     l,
                                                                                    A             l. N        IV
                                                        N                      IV A                   TV         AC
                                                         TV                        C                       H
                                                                              H             ag
                        ag ,                                                                   .
                  G                                                                      G
                                                                                               Fig. 4

                                                                6/14
<removed-date>
              A                Dominance of responses to Gag out
                                   of the total covered in the
                                  HIVACAT T cell immunogen
                                                                 p=0.0079
                    Ratio IFNg responses to
                                               1.00
<removed-apn>
                                               0.75
                                               0.50
                  Gag/total HIVACAT sequence
                                               0.25
                                               0.00
                                                         20                20
                                                           ug                 ug
                                                      TV               T
                                                                       A
                                               Po                 IV A
                                                  l+ N                C
                                         ag                      H
                                            +
                                   G
              B
                                                            Fig. 5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 6                              7/14

                                                                                               <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                B                                                                      A
                                                   OD 494/620
                                                  0.20
                                                  0.18
                                                  0.16
                                                  0.14
                                                  0.12
                                                  0.10
                                                  0.08
                                                  0.06
                                                  0.04
         Gag/Pol/NTV                    Mi        0.02
                                                  0.00
                                        Mice 6
                                        Mice 7
                                        M ce
            20ug                       Mi ice 8
                                          ce 9                             G
                                            10                                     ag
                                       Mi                                             /P
                                          c
                                       Mi e 1 .                                          ol
                                       Mice 11                                              /N           Log gag-p24 antibody titers
                                       Mice 12                                       H         T
                                       Mice 13                                          IV V 2      0    1    2    3   4    5    6
                                          ce 4                                     G AC 0 u
                                            15                                      ag          A
                                       Mi
                                          c
                                       Mi e 2 .
                                                                                         /P T g
Fig. 7                                                                                     ol 20
                                                                                              /      u                                     8/14
         HIVACAT Gag/Pol/NTV HIVACAT
                                       Mice 21
                                       Mice 22                                         H NTV g
                                                                                          IV
                                       Mice 23                                               A      5u
                                          ce 4                                                 C
                                            25                                                   A g
                                       Mi
                                          c                                                       T
                                       Mi e 2 .                                                     5u
                                                                                                       g
                                5ug
           20ug                        Mice 26
                     5ug               Mice 27
                                       Mice 28
                                          ce 9
                                            30
                                       Mi
                                          c
                                       Mi e 3 .
                                                                    ELISA p55 dilution 1:100
                                       Mice 31
                        SHAM           Mice 32
                                       Mice 33
                                          ce 4
                                            35

                                        <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                         BL57/6 mice (n=6/group)
     w6
w4
               MVA
w4        w7         w9
w4        w7         w9                       pDNA: 100g per dose       9/14
                                        MVA
                                              MVA: 10^6pfu/dose
                            MVA
w4        w7          w10         w12
                 Fig. 8

                                                                                                       <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
 to protein subunits*                                       Total HIV specific induced T cell responses with different
 cell immunogen sequence                                                vaccine combinations expressing
                                                                    the HIVACAT T-cell immunogen sequence
                                                                                         5000
                                                                                         4000
                                                                                                                             0.0087
                                                                                         3000
                                                                                                                                                   10/14
                                                                                         2000
                                                               IFNg SFC/106splenocytes   1000
                                                                                           0
                          3 DNA                                                                 2DNA                  3DNA
                                                                                                         2DNA +1MVA                   3DNA +1MVA
                                  3 DNA + 1 MVA
    , Pol-Prot, Pol-RT, Pol-Int, Vif and Nef)
                                                  Fig. 8 (cont.)

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     C
                                            11/14
Fig. 8 (cont.)

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            12/14
Fig. 8 (cont.)

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            13/14
Fig. 8 (cont.)

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                        14/14
Fig. 8 (cont.)

              !                                    1
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Laboratorios del Dr. Esteve, S.A.
                      Fundaci Privada Institut de Recerca de la SIDA-Caixa
                      Instituci Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avanats
              <120>   IMMUNOGENS FOR HIV VACCINATION
              <130>   P7568PC00
              <150>   EP12382031.8
              <151>   2012-01-27
<removed-apn>
              <160>   95
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   78
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   1
              Glu Lys Ile Arg Leu Arg Pro Gly Gly Lys Lys Lys Tyr Lys Leu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ile Val Trp Ala Ser Arg Glu Leu Glu Arg Phe Ala Val Asn Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Leu Leu Glu Thr Ser Glu Gly Cys Arg Gln Ile Leu Gly Gln Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Pro Ser Leu Gln Thr Gly Ser Glu Glu Leu Lys Ser Leu Tyr Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Val Ala Thr Leu Tyr Cys Val His Gln Lys Ile Glu Val
              65                  70                  75
              <210>   2
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              !

              !                                    2
              <400>   2
<removed-date>
              Lys Ala Phe Ser Pro Glu Val Ile Pro Met Phe Ser Ala Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   3
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   3
              Gly His Gln Ala Ala Met Gln Met Leu Lys Glu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   4
              <211>   60
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   4
              Ile Ala Pro Gly Gln Met Arg Glu Pro Arg Gly Ser Asp Ile Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Thr Ser Thr Leu Gln Glu Gln Ile Gly Trp Met Thr Asn Asn Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Ile Pro Val Gly Glu Ile Tyr Lys Arg Trp Ile Ile Leu Gly Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Lys Ile Val Arg Met Tyr Ser Pro Thr Ser Ile
                  50                  55                  60
              <210>   5
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   5
              Tyr Val Asp Arg Phe Tyr Lys Thr Leu Arg Ala Glu Gln Ala
              1               5                   10
              !

              !                                    3
<removed-date>
              <210>   6
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   6
<removed-apn>
              Ala Cys Gln Gly Val Gly Gly Pro Gly His Lys Ala Arg Val Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   7
              <211>   27
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   7
              Cys Thr Glu Arg Gln Ala Asn Phe Leu Gly Lys Ile Trp Pro Ser His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Gly Arg Pro Gly Asn Phe Leu Gln Ser Arg
                          20                  25
              <210>   8
              <211>   55
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   8
              Lys Met Ile Gly Gly Ile Gly Gly Phe Ile Lys Val Arg Gln Tyr Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Ile Leu Ile Glu Ile Cys Gly His Lys Ala Ile Gly Thr Val Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Gly Pro Thr Pro Val Asn Ile Ile Gly Arg Asn Leu Leu Thr Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Cys Thr Leu Asn Phe
                  50                  55
              !

              !                                    4
<removed-date>
              <210>   9
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   9
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Glu Ile Cys Thr Glu Leu Glu Lys Glu Gly Lys Ile Ser Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile
              <210>   10
              <211>   55
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   10
              Leu Arg Trp Gly Phe Thr Thr Pro Asp Lys Lys His Gln Lys Glu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Phe Leu Trp Met Gly Tyr Glu Leu His Pro Asp Lys Trp Thr Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Pro Ile Val Leu Pro Glu Lys Asp Ser Trp Thr Val Asn Asp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Lys Leu Val Gly Lys Leu
                  50                  55
              <210>   11
              <211>   34
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   11
              Ile Leu Lys Glu Pro Val His Gly Val Tyr Tyr Asp Pro Ser Lys Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              !

              !                                    5
<removed-date>
              Leu Ile Ala Glu Ile Gln Lys Gln Gly Gln Gly Gln Trp Thr Tyr Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Tyr
              <210>   12
              <211>   34
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   12
              Thr Lys Glu Leu Gln Lys Gln Ile Thr Lys Ile Gln Asn Phe Arg Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Arg Asp Pro Leu Trp Lys Gly Pro Ala Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Trp
              <210>   13
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   13
              Lys Ile Ile Arg Asp Tyr Gly Lys Gln Met Ala Gly Asp Asp Cys Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala
              <210>   14
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              !

              !                                    6
              <400>   14
<removed-date>
              Val Lys His His Met Tyr Ile Ser Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly Trp Phe Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg His His Tyr Glu Ser Thr His Pro Arg
                          20                  25
              <210>   15
              <211>   19
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   15
              Val Thr Lys Leu Thr Glu Asp Arg Trp Asn Lys Pro Gln Lys Thr Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly His Arg
              <210>   16
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   16
              Ala Trp Leu Glu Ala Gln Glu Glu Glu Glu Val Gly Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   17
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   17
              Glu Lys Ile Arg Leu Arg Pro Gly Gly Lys Lys Lys Tyr Lys Leu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ile Val Trp Ala Ser Arg
                          20
              !

              !                                    7
<removed-date>
              <210>   18
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   18
<removed-apn>
              Lys Leu Lys His Ile Val Trp Ala Ser Arg Glu Leu Glu Arg Phe Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Asn Pro Gly Leu Leu
                          20
              <210>   19
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   19
              Glu Arg Phe Ala Val Asn Pro Gly Leu Leu Glu Thr Ser Glu Gly Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Gln Ile Leu Gly Gln Leu
                          20
              <210>   20
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   20
              Glu Gly Cys Arg Gln Ile Leu Gly Gln Leu Gln Pro Ser Leu Gln Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ser Glu Glu Leu Lys Ser Leu
                          20
              <210>   21
              <211>   26
              !

              !                                    8
              <212>   PRT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   21
              Gln Thr Gly Ser Glu Glu Leu Lys Ser Leu Tyr Asn Thr Val Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Tyr Cys Val His Gln Arg Ile Glu Val
                          20                  25
              <210>   22
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   22
              Lys Ala Phe Ser Pro Glu Val Ile Pro Met Phe Ser Ala Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   23
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   23
              Gly His Gln Ala Ala Met Gln Met Leu Lys Glu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   24
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   24
              Ile Ala Pro Gly Gln Met Arg Glu Pro Arg Gly Ser Asp Ile Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              !

              !                                    9
              Thr Thr Ser Thr Leu
<removed-date>
                          20
              <210>   25
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
<removed-apn>
              <400>   25
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Gly Thr Thr Ser Thr Leu Gln Glu Gln Ile Gly Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Met Thr Asn Asn Pro Pro Ile
                          20
              <210>   26
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   26
              Ile Gly Trp Met Thr Asn Asn Pro Pro Ile Pro Val Gly Glu Ile Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Arg Trp Ile Ile Leu Gly Leu
                          20
              <210>   27
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   27
              Ile Tyr Lys Arg Trp Ile Ile Leu Gly Leu Asn Lys Ile Val Arg Met
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Ser Pro Thr Ser Ile
                          20
              !

              !                                   10
              <210>   28
<removed-date>
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   28
              Tyr Val Asp Arg Phe Tyr Lys Thr Leu Arg Ala Glu Gln Ala
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   29
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   29
              Ala Cys Gln Gly Val Gly Gly Pro Gly His Lys Ala Arg Val Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   30
              <211>   27
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   30
              Cys Thr Glu Arg Gln Ala Asn Phe Leu Gly Lys Ile Trp Pro Ser His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Gly Arg Pro Gly Asn Phe Leu Gln Ser Arg
                          20                  25
              <210>   31
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   31
              Lys Met Ile Gly Gly Ile Gly Gly Phe Ile Lys Val Arg Gln Tyr Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              !

              !                                     11
<removed-date>
              Gln Ile Leu Ile Glu Ile Cys Gly His Lys
                          20                  25
              <210>   32
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   32
              Gln Ile Leu Ile Glu Ile Cys Gly His Lys Ala Ile Gly Thr Val Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Gly Pro Thr Pro Val Asn Ile
                          20
              <210>   33
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   33
              Val Leu Val Gly Pro Thr Pro Val Asn Ile Ile Gly Arg Asn Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Leu Asn Phe
                          20                  25
              <210>   34
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   34
              Leu Val Glu Ile Cys Thr Glu Met Glu Lys Glu Gly Lys Ile Ser Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile
              !

              !                                     12
<removed-date>
              <210>   35
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   35
<removed-apn>
              Leu Arg Trp Gly Phe Thr Thr Pro Asp Lys Lys His Gln Lys Glu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Phe Leu Trp Met Gly Tyr Glu Leu
                          20                  25
              <210>   36
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   36
              Pro Pro Phe Leu Trp Met Gly Tyr Glu Leu His Pro Asp Lys Trp Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Gln Pro Ile Val Leu Pro Glu Lys
                          20                  25
              <210>   37
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   37
              Thr Val Gln Pro Ile Val Leu Pro Glu Lys Asp Ser Trp Thr Val Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ile Gln Lys Leu Val Gly Lys Leu
                          20                  25
              <210>   38
              <211>   23
              !

              !                                   13
              <212>   PRT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   38
              Ile Leu Lys Glu Pro Val His Gly Val Tyr Tyr Asp Pro Ser Lys Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ile Ala Glu Ile Gln Lys
                          20
              <210>   39
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   39
              Ser Lys Asp Leu Ile Ala Glu Ile Gln Lys Gln Gly Gln Gly Gln Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gln Ile Tyr
                          20
              <210>   40
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   40
              Thr Lys Glu Leu Gln Lys Gln Ile Thr Lys Ile Gln Asn Phe Arg Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Arg
                          20
              <210>   41
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              !

              !                                   14
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
<removed-date>
              <400>   41
              Asn Phe Arg Val Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Arg Asp Pro Leu Trp Lys Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Ala Lys Leu Leu Trp
                          20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   42
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   42
              Lys Ile Ile Arg Asp Tyr Gly Lys Gln Met Ala Gly Asp Asp Cys Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala
              <210>   43
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   43
              Val Lys His His Met Tyr Ile Ser Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly Trp Phe Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg His His Tyr Glu Ser Thr His Pro Arg
                          20                  25
              <210>   44
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   44
              !

              !                                   15
              Val Thr Lys Leu Thr Glu Asp Arg Trp Asn Lys Pro Gln Lys Thr Lys
<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly His Arg
              <210>   45
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   OLP HIV clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   45
              Ala Trp Leu Glu Ala Gln Glu Glu Glu Glu Val Gly Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   46
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   46
              Met Trp Leu Gln Ser Leu Leu Leu Leu Gly Thr Val Ala Cys Ser Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser
              <210>   47
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   human GM-CSF signal peptide + V
              <400>   47
              Met Trp Leu Gln Ser Leu Leu Leu Leu Gly Thr Val Ala Cys Ser Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val
              <210>   48
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              !

              !                                     16
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Flag-tag
              <400>   48
              Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Leu
              1               5
              <210>   49
<removed-apn>
              <211>   556
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   HIV immunogen comprising OLPs
              <400>   49
              Met Trp Leu Gln Ser Leu Leu Leu Leu Gly Thr Val Ala Cys Ser Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val Glu Lys Ile Arg Leu Arg Pro Gly Gly Lys Lys Lys Tyr Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Lys His Ile Val Trp Ala Ser Arg Glu Leu Glu Arg Phe Ala Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Pro Gly Leu Leu Glu Thr Ser Glu Gly Cys Arg Gln Ile Leu Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Leu Gln Pro Ser Leu Gln Thr Gly Ser Glu Glu Leu Lys Ser Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Asn Thr Val Ala Thr Leu Tyr Cys Val His Gln Lys Ile Glu Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Ala Ala Lys Ala Phe Ser Pro Glu Val Ile Pro Met Phe Ser Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Ala Ala Ala Gly His Gln Ala Ala Met Gln Met Leu Lys Glu Ala
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Ala Ile Ala Pro Gly Gln Met Arg Glu Pro Arg Gly Ser Asp Ile
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Gly Thr Thr Ser Thr Leu Gln Glu Gln Ile Gly Trp Met Thr Asn
              !

              !                                  17
              145                150                  155                 160
<removed-date>
              Asn Pro Pro Ile Pro Val Gly Glu Ile Tyr Lys Arg Trp Ile Ile Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Leu Asn Lys Ile Val Arg Met Tyr Ser Pro Thr Ser Ile Ala Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Tyr Val Asp Arg Phe Tyr Lys Thr Leu Arg Ala Glu Gln Ala Ala
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Cys Gln Gly Val Gly Gly Pro Gly His Lys Ala Arg Val Leu Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Ala Cys Thr Glu Arg Gln Ala Asn Phe Leu Gly Lys Ile Trp Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser His Lys Gly Arg Pro Gly Asn Phe Leu Gln Ser Arg Ala Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Met Ile Gly Gly Ile Gly Gly Phe Ile Lys Val Arg Gln Tyr Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Gln Ile Leu Ile Glu Ile Cys Gly His Lys Ala Ile Gly Thr Val Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Gly Pro Thr Pro Val Asn Ile Ile Gly Arg Asn Leu Leu Thr Gln
                  290                 295                 300
              Ile Gly Cys Thr Leu Asn Phe Ala Ala Leu Val Glu Ile Cys Thr Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Met Glu Lys Glu Gly Lys Ile Ser Lys Ile Ala Ala Ala Leu Arg Trp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Phe Thr Thr Pro Asp Lys Lys His Gln Lys Glu Pro Pro Phe Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              Trp Met Gly Tyr Glu Leu His Pro Asp Lys Trp Thr Val Gln Pro Ile
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Leu Pro Glu Lys Asp Ser Trp Thr Val Asn Asp Ile Gln Lys Leu
                  370                 375                 380
              !

              !                                   18
<removed-date>
              Val Gly Lys Leu Ala Ala Ala Ile Leu Lys Glu Pro Val His Gly Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Tyr Tyr Asp Pro Ser Lys Asp Leu Ile Ala Glu Ile Gln Lys Gln Gly
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Gly Gln Trp Thr Tyr Gln Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ala Thr Lys Glu Leu
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Gln Lys Gln Ile Thr Lys Ile Gln Asn Phe Arg Val Tyr Tyr Arg Asp
                      435                 440                 445
              Ser Arg Asp Pro Leu Trp Lys Gly Pro Ala Lys Leu Leu Trp Ala Ala
                  450                 455                 460
              Ala Lys Ile Ile Arg Asp Tyr Gly Lys Gln Met Ala Gly Asp Asp Cys
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Val Ala Ala Ala Val Lys His His Met Tyr Ile Ser Lys Lys Ala Lys
                              485                 490                 495
              Gly Trp Phe Tyr Arg His His Tyr Glu Ser Thr His Pro Arg Ala Ala
                          500                 505                 510
              Ala Val Thr Lys Leu Thr Glu Asp Arg Trp Asn Lys Pro Gln Lys Thr
                      515                 520                 525
              Lys Gly His Arg Ala Ala Ala Trp Leu Glu Ala Gln Glu Glu Glu Glu
                  530                 535                 540
              Val Gly Phe Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Leu
              545                 550                 555
              <210>   50
              <211>   1674
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide encoding immunogen comprising HIV OLPs
              <400> 50
              atgtggctcc agagcctgct actcctgggg acggtggcct gcagcatctc ggtcgagaag
              60
              !

              !                                  19
              atccggctgc ggccaggcgg aaagaagaag tacaagctga agcacatcgt ctgggcctcg
<removed-date>
              120
              agggagctgg agcggttcgc ggtgaacccg ggacttctgg agacgtcgga ggggtgcagg
              180
              cagatcctcg gccagctgca gccctctctg caaacggggt ctgaggagct gaagagcctg
              240
              tacaacacgg tggcgaccct ctactgcgtc caccagaaga tcgaggtggc agcggccaag
              300
<removed-apn>
              gcgttctcgc cggaggtcat ccccatgttc tcggcgctgg cagctgccgg acaccaggcc
              360
              gcgatgcaga tgctgaagga ggccgctgcg atcgcaccgg gccagatgag ggagccacgc
              420
              ggttccgaca tcgcgggaac cacctcgacg ctccaggagc agatcggatg gatgacgaac
              480
              aacccgccaa tcccggtcgg ggagatctac aagcggtgga tcatcctcgg gctgaacaag
              540
              atcgtccgga tgtacagccc gacgtcgatc gctgcggcat acgttgaccg gttctacaag
              600
              accctgaggg ccgagcaggc agcggcctgc cagggggtcg gtggaccagg gcacaaggcc
              660
              cgagtgctcg cggccgcatg cacggagcgg caggcgaact tcctggggaa gatctggccg
              720
              tcgcacaagg gccgaccggg aaacttcctc cagtctcgcg cagcggctaa gatgatcgga
              780
              ggcatcggag gcttcatcaa agtccgtcag tacgaccaga tcctcatcga gatctgcggg
              840
              cacaaggcga tcggaaccgt gctcgtcggc ccaacgcccg tgaacatcat cggccgcaac
              900
              ctgttaacgc agatcggctg caccctcaac ttcgccgcac tagtggagat ctgcacggag
              960
              atggagaagg agggcaagat atcgaagatc gcggcagctc tgaggtgggg cttcaccacg
              1020
              ccggacaaga agcaccagaa ggagccgcca ttcctgtgga tgggatacga gctgcacccg
              1080
              gacaagtgga ccgtgcagcc catcgtcctg ccggagaagg actcgtggac ggtgaacgac
              1140
              atccagaagc tcgtggggaa gctggcggca gccatcctca aggagcccgt ccacggggtg
              1200
              !

              !                                   20
              tactacgacc cctctaagga cctgatcgcg gagatccaga agcaggggca gggtcagtgg
<removed-date>
              1260
              acctaccaga tctacgcagc agcaaccaag gagctgcaga agcagatcac gaagatccag
              1320
              aacttccgcg tatactaccg cgactcgcgg gaccccctgt ggaagggccc tgcgaagctt
              1380
              ctctgggcag ccgcgaagat catccgggac tacggcaagc agatggcggg cgacgactgc
              1440
<removed-apn>
              gtggccgcag cggtgaagca ccatatgtac atctcgaaga aggcgaaggg ctggttctac
              1500
              agacaccact acgagtccac ccaccccagg gcagctgcgg tgacgaagct gacggaggac
              1560
              cggtggaaca agccccagaa gacgaagggt caccgggcgg ctgcatggct ggaggctcag
              1620
              gaggaggagg aggtgggctt cgattacaag gacgatgacg acaagctgtg ataa
              1674
              <210>   51
              <211>   60
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   198HPlus primer
              <400> 51
              gtcaccgggc ggctgcatgg ctggaggctc aggaggagga ggaggtgggc ttctgataag
              60
              <210>   52
              <211>   59
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   298HMinus primer
              <400> 52
              aattcttatc agaagcccac ctcctcctcc tcctgagcct ccagccatgc agccgcccg
              59
              <210>   53
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              !

              !                                   21
<removed-date>
              <400>   53
              Glu Lys Ile Arg Leu Arg Pro Gly Gly Lys Lys Lys Tyr Lys Leu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ile
              <210>   54
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   54
              Ala Ser Arg Glu Leu Glu Arg Phe Ala Val Asn Pro Gly Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   55
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   55
              Glu Arg Phe Ala Val Asn Pro Gly Leu Leu Glu Thr Ser Glu Gly Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg
              <210>   56
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   56
              Gln Leu Gln Pro Ser Leu Gln Thr Gly Ser Glu Glu Leu Arg Ser Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr
              !

              !                                   22
<removed-date>
              <210>   57
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   57
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Tyr Asn Thr Val Ala Thr Leu Tyr Cys Val His Gln Arg Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Val
              <210>   58
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   58
              Ala Phe Ser Pro Glu Val Ile Pro Met Phe Ser Ala Leu Ser Glu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala
              <210>   59
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   59
              Ile Ala Pro Gly Gln Met Arg Glu Pro Arg Gly Ser Asp Ile Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   60
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              !

              !                                   23
              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   60
              Ser Thr Leu Gln Glu Gln Ile Gly Trp Met Thr Asn Asn Pro Pro Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Val
<removed-apn>
              <210>   61
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   61
              Ala Cys Gln Gly Val Gly Gly Pro Gly His Lys Ala Arg Val Leu Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Ala
              <210>   62
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   62
              Gly Lys Ile Trp Pro Ser His Lys Gly Arg Pro Gly Asn Phe Leu Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Arg
              <210>   63
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   63
              !

              !                                   24
<removed-date>
              Trp Leu Glu Ala Gln Glu Glu Glu Glu Val Gly Phe Pro Val Arg Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Val
              <210>   64
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   64
              Glu Val Gly Phe Pro Val Arg Pro Gln Val Pro Leu Arg Pro Met Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Lys
              <210>   65
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   65
              Asn Tyr Thr Pro Gly Pro Gly Ile Arg Tyr Pro Leu Thr Phe Gly Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Phe
              <210>   66
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   66
              Arg Tyr Pro Leu Thr Phe Gly Trp Cys Phe Lys Leu Val Pro Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              !

              !                                   25
<removed-date>
              <210>   67
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   67
              Ser Leu His Gly Met Asp Asp Pro Glu Lys Glu Val Leu Val Trp Lys
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe
              <210>   68
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   68
              Lys Met Ile Gly Gly Ile Gly Gly Phe Ile Lys Val Arg Gln Tyr Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Ile
              <210>   69
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   69
              Phe Ile Lys Val Arg Gln Tyr Asp Gln Ile Leu Ile Glu Ile Cys Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Lys
              <210>   70
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              !

              !                                   26
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   70
              Gln Ile Leu Ile Glu Ile Cys Gly His Lys Ala Ile Gly Thr Val Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val
<removed-apn>
              <210>   71
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   71
              Leu Val Gly Pro Thr Pro Val Asn Ile Ile Gly Arg Asn Leu Leu Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Ile
              <210>   72
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   72
              Leu Val Glu Ile Cys Thr Glu Met Glu Lys Glu Gly Lys Ile Ser Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile
              <210>   73
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              !

              !                                   27
<removed-date>
              <400>   73
              Leu Asp Val Gly Asp Ala Tyr Phe Ser Val Pro Leu Asp Lys Asp Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Lys
              <210>   74
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   74
              Leu Arg Trp Gly Phe Thr Thr Pro Asp Lys Lys His Gln Lys Glu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Phe
              <210>   75
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   75
              Asp Lys Lys His Gln Lys Glu Pro Pro Phe Leu Trp Met Gly Tyr Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu His
              <210>   76
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   76
              Glu Ile Gln Lys Gln Gly Gln Gly Gln Trp Thr Tyr Gln Ile Tyr
              !

              !                                   28
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-date>
              <210>   77
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   77
<removed-apn>
              Pro Pro Leu Val Lys Leu Trp Tyr Gln Leu Glu Lys Glu Pro Ile Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ala
              <210>   78
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   78
              Ile His Leu Ala Leu Gln Asp Ser Gly Leu Glu Val Asn Ile Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   79
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   79
              Val Tyr Leu Ala Trp Val Pro Ala His Lys Gly Ile Gly Gly Asn Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Val
              <210>   80
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              !

              !                                   29
              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   80
              Ser Ala Gly Ile Arg Lys Val Leu Phe Leu Asp Gly Ile Asp Lys Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   81
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   81
              Thr Lys Glu Leu Gln Lys Gln Ile Thr Lys Ile Gln Asn Phe Arg Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Tyr
              <210>   82
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   82
              Thr Lys Ile Gln Asn Phe Arg Val Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Arg Asp Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Trp
              <210>   83
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   83
              Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Arg Asp Pro Leu Trp Lys Gly Pro Ala Lys Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              !

              !                                   30
<removed-date>
              Leu Trp
              <210>   84
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
<removed-apn>
              <400>   84
              Lys Ile Ile Arg Asp Tyr Gly Lys Gln Met Ala Gly Asp Asp Cys Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala
              <210>   85
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   85
              Gly Pro Gln Arg Glu Pro Tyr Asn Glu Trp Thr Leu Glu Leu Leu Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Leu
              <210>   86
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   86
              Asp Leu Asn Asn Asn Thr Asn Thr Thr Ser Ser Ser Gly Glu Lys Met
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Lys
              !

              !                                   31
<removed-date>
              <210>   87
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   87
              Ile Arg Asp Lys Val Gln Lys Glu Tyr Ala Leu Phe Tyr Lys Leu Asp
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Val
              <210>   88
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   88
              Tyr Arg Leu Ile Ser Cys Asn Thr Ser Val Ile Thr Gln Ala Cys Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Val
              <210>   89
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   89
              Ser Val Ile Thr Gln Ala Cys Pro Lys Val Ser Phe Glu Pro Ile Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile His
              <210>   90
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              !

              !                                   32
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   90
              Thr Asn Val Ser Thr Val Gln Cys Thr His Gly Ile Arg Pro Val Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   91
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   91
              Val Ala Pro Thr Lys Ala Lys Arg Arg Val Val Gln Arg Glu Lys Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Val
              <210>   92
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   92
              Val Ile Glu Val Val Gln Arg Ala Cys Arg Ala Ile Leu His Ile Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Arg
              <210>   93
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   93
              Val Lys His His Met Tyr Ile Ser Gly Lys Ala Lys Gly Trp Phe Tyr
              !

              !                                   33
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-date>
              Arg His
              <210>   94
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   94
              Gly Lys Ala Lys Gly Trp Phe Tyr Arg His His Tyr Glu Ser Thr His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Arg
              <210>   95
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   OLP clade B consensus sequence
              <400>   95
              Thr Lys Leu Thr Glu Asp Arg Trp Asn Lys Pro Gln Lys Thr Lys Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Arg
              !

