                                  -16
                              ABSTRACT
There is a transmitter 1 for a personal distress beacon which is adapted for
casual or permanent attachment to part of a user's body such as the ear 2 in
a manner to monitor, for possible activation of said transmitter:
   -    one or more vital signs associated with said body, or
    -   one or more stress hormones associated with said body, or
      - one or more vital signs and one or more stress hormones
        associated with said body
The transmitter upon activation emits said distress beacon to alert and
 disclose the location of said user to at least one selected recipient.

                                      1
                          PERSONAL DISTRESS BEACON
                           FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This invention relates to personal protection devices. More particularly, although
not exclusively, it discloses a transmitter for a personal protection distress
beacon.
                       BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
While personal alarms and monitoring devices are well known they generally
have the disadvantage of being only fitted casually to the user for a few hours or
less. Typically they may be hung loosely around the neck or carried in a pocket or
purse. Therefore, as they are not continuously worn they are often forgotten or
dispensed with during strenuous activities or at other inopportune times.
Further, prior art personal safety alarms are normally limited to an audio signal
which has limited effect on a determined assailant and moreover does not
disclose the location of the user when in distress.
                     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
It is therefore an object of this invention to ameliorate the aforementioned
disadvantages and accordingly a transmitter for a personal distress beacon is
disclosed which is adapted for casual or permanent attachment to a user's body
in a manner to monitor, for possible activation of said transmitter:
         - one or more vital signs associated with said body, or

                                        2
         -   one or more stress hormones associated with said body, or
           - one or more vital signs and one or more stress hormones
             associated with said body
wherein said transmitter upon activation emits said distress beacon to alert and
disclose the location of said user to at least one selected recipient.
Preferably said transmitter is adapted for unobtrusive sustained or permanent
attachment to a part of the user's body at or adjacent an area that can be used to
monitor vital signs and/or stress hormones - such as on the outer ear or around
the neck, arm, finger or wrist etc.
It is further preferred that said attachment is by means of orbital piercing or
other medical or surgical procedures.
It is further preferred that the transmitter uses known microtechnology and
employs a button actuator readily able to be pressed in haste by the user if
necessary.
It is further preferred that said button is adapted such that a single press for
more than about two seconds initiates the beacon and a subsequent press
deactivates it.

                                      3
It is further preferred that the transmitter is adapted (e.g. by colour, shape
and/or material of construction) to absorb heat and light for at least part of its
energy requirements.
It is further preferred that the transmitter encapsulates a SIM which may be
serviced via a mobile phone account.
It is further preferred that the transmitter roams freely and is not required to be
within close proximity to the mobile phone which it is serviced by.
It is further preferred that the transmitter is at least partially powered by light
and movement such as (but not limited to) an ECO Drive or the like which
features light capturing cells.
It is further preferred that the transmitter include a hands-free speaker and
microphone so that the user may verbally communicate to an emergency
response team.
It is further preferred that the transmitter housing be heat and water resistant,
watertight or waterproof to ensure that it cannot be damaged by moisture, heat
or liquid.

                                      4
It is further preferred that the transmitter housing be constructed from either a
rigid or flexible polymer such as polyester, ABS, polycarbonate or other forms of
moulded polymers. Polymers of biocompatibility are also preferred. Preferably all
components would have antifouling properties to render the overall devices and
any subcomponents biocompatible for extensive wearing or implanting.
In accordance with currently preferred embodiments of the invention known
semiconductor based or organic semiconductor based circuitry may be used that
would process the signals 1/0. Components would also be capable of storing the
needed information either internal to the device or incorporate expandable
digital storage facility such as SD cards etc. The transmitter may also have
interfacing control components for user to interact with the device. Such may
include touch-sensors or other forms of interfacing such as projection or
holograms etc.
Any form of known electromagnetic (EM) based communication components
such as Bluetooth, WiFi and other types of components such as antennas capable
of emitting an EM signal (IEEE 802.11x, 2.4GHz and other types of radio and
microwaves) may be used in accordance with the invention.
Ultra low or low power sources may include known energy harvesting

                                     5
 components such as piezoelectric, thermoelectric or photovoltaic. Such power
sources would then be able to sustain release power needed for the device to
function.
Known sensors that detects surrounding such as accelerometer GPS, Wi-Fi, EM
wave detection may be used. Furthermore, device components that would be
used to monitor the user's wellbeing and conditions may include& IR sensors,
ultrasonics, and other components designed to monitor vital signs and /stress
hormones of the wearer. Processing of signals may include known algorithms that
would self-improve on accuracy of detection of signals over a period of time. Vital
signs and /stress hormones that are monitored may include one or more of blood
pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and hormone levels (including cortisol and
adrenaline).
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Currently preferred examples of attachment modes of the beacon transmitter
housing to a user's body will now be described with reference to the attached
schematic drawings in which:
           Figure 1 shows the transmitter housing shaped for sustained
           attachment to the helix of a user's outer ear,

                                      6
            Figures 1A and 1B show the transmitter incorporated into a clip for
            attachment to a user's outer ear,
            Figure 2 shows the transmitter shaped for attachment to the user's
            wrist,
            Figure 3 shows the transmitter attached to the user's upper arm, and
            Figure 4 shows the transmitter attached to the user's finger.
            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Referring first to figure 1 the transmitter may include a curved housing 1 which is
shaped and sized to closely follow the contours of part of the user's outer ear or
helix 2. In accordance with the invention the transmitter housing would be
adapted for attachment using studs (orbital piercing) or other medical/surgical
procedures.
With an alternative method of attaching the transmitter, as shown in figures 1A
and 1B, there is a U shaped spring clip 2A of biocompatible plastic with end
capsules 2B which encase the hardware for the transmitter as well as the sensors.
This clip engages over the outer edge or helix 2 of the user's ear to hold the
transmitter in place.
As shown in figure 2 the transmitter housing may alternatively be shaped as a

                                       7
disc 3 which is secured to the user's wrist 4 by a strap or band 5.
As shown in figure 3 a similarly shaped transmitter housing 6 may be secured to
the user's upper arm 7 also by a band or strap 8.
As shown in figure 4 shows a miniaturised disc shaped version of the transmitter
9 attached to the user's forefinger 10 (or any other finger) using a strap or band
11.
 Potential uses and advantages of a personal distress beacon transmitter
according to the invention may include, but are not limited to, the following:
  -   It is adapted to be worn by vulnerable individuals who have received threats
     of harm, abduction or have received death threats.
  -   It can be issued to victims of domestic violence, key witnesses in court cases
     or vulnerable children.
  -   It can be modified and used as a tracking device for convicted child sex
      offenders as a more effective alternative to ankle bracelets.

                                  8
If it is used for the purpose of a tracking device it can be mandated by the
Court to be worn by dangerous perpetrators such as those who have been
issued with apprehended violence orders, convicted sex offenders or by
those who have made a significant threat to a particular person or group of
people. In this case an offender's transmitter would preferably set off a
warning signal when an offender comes into close proximity to a
victim/vulnerable person also wearing a transmitter.
It could be used by patients; out-patients; elderly individuals; individuals
living with medical conditions; children and individuals with disabilities to
assist in seeking emergency service response in the event that they are
experiencing a life-threatening event by also informing/notifying emergency
responders if/when needed.
It could be used by recreational enthusiasts; children; or any individual to
assist in seeking emergency service response in the event that they are
experiencing a life-threatening event by also informing/notifying emergency
responders if/when needed.
It could be used by employees working in isolation and or rural/remote areas
or any other individual to assist in seeking emergency service response in the

                                9
event that they are experiencing a life-threatening event by also
informing/notifying emergency responders if/when needed.
It could be used by Defence Services Personnel or any other individual to
assist in seeking emergency service response in the event that they are
experiencing a life-threatening event by also informing/notifying emergency
responders if/when needed.
It could be used by individuals concerned for the wellbeing of others
including but not limited to carers; parents of children; adults of elderly
loved ones; friends of vulnerable individuals in monitoring the wellbeing and
whereabouts of their loved ones and seeking emergency responses for them
if or when needed by also informing/notifying emergency responders
if/when needed.
It could be used by case workers including but not limited to child protection
case workers; domestic violence caseworkers to monitor the wellbeing and
whereabouts of their chargers and by also informing/notifying emergency
responders if/when needed. Such case workers could also use data collated
for the users to make appropriate living/security recommendations for their
chargers.

                                 10
It could be used by carers; parents; coaches; and or educators including but
not limited to early childhood educators;
school/college/TAFE/university/home, paid or unpaid carers/employees;
tutors, to assist in monitoring the wellbeing and whereabouts of their
chargers and by also informing/notifying emergency responders if/when
needed.
It could be used by individuals to monitor the whereabouts and wellbeing of
other individuals at risk of but not limited to self-harm/suicide/accidental
suicide/death/homicide/abuse/neglect/assault/sexual assault, by also
informing/notifying emergency responders if/when needed. Such individuals
could also use data collated for the users to make appropriate living/security
recommendations for their chargers.
It could be used by Public and or Private security services personnel to
monitor information including but not limited to the physiological and
geographical status; activities; whereabouts of: convicted, high risk and or
suspect terrorists; rapists; murders; abusers; violent offenders by also
informing/notifying emergency responders if/when needed.
It could be used by public or private search parties in, but not limited to
assisting in planning, monitoring and or the managing of search, rescue and
or recovery activities and by also monitoring the physiological wellbeing and
geographic location of the search personnel.

                                 11
It is also envisaged that the transmitter could be adapted to monitor distress
hormone levels (i.e. cortisol and adrenaline) of a user which would
automatically send out a distress signal to emergency services indicating that
the user perceives that their life is being threatened or is perceiving a life
threatening event is about to happen. The transmitter would preferably also
be adapted to activate where signs of life in the user cannot be detected
such as if the transmitter is forcibly removed or the user became deceased.
The transmitter may also be further adapted for use by emergency services
personnel, and psychiatrists treating suicidal or homicidal patients by
detecting hormone levels indicating that the user is distressed and sending
out signals notifying selected recipient(s) of the user's state of mind and
location.
Transmitter mother bases may also be developed which could be installed
near schools or parks to detect and notify authorities when a convicted sex
offender approaches such exclusion zones.
It is also envisaged that the transmitter could be adapted to assist in
monitoring the wellbeing and or whereabouts of emergency services

                                       12
   -    personnel including but not limited to paramedics; police; fire fighters; State
        Emergency Services (SES) to seek back up/assistance/treatment accordingly
        by those it may concern.
It will thus be appreciated that this invention at least in the form of the
embodiment disclosed provides a novel and improved form of personal protection
device. Clearly however the transmitter described is only the currently preferred
form of the invention and a wide range of modifications may be made which
would be apparent to a person skilled in the art. For example the shape and
configuration of transmitter housing may change according to design preference
and/or the intended location on the user where it is to be fitted. Also the
microtechnology used for the transmitter as well as its power supply may be
modified without departing from the scope of the invention.

                                    -13
The claims:
1. A transmitter for a personal distress beacon which is adapted for casual or
   permanent attachment to a user's body in a manner to monitor, for possible
   activation of said transmitter:
     -    one or more vital signs associated with said body, or
      -   one or more stress hormones associated with said body, or
        - one or more vital signs and one or more stress hormones
          associated with said body
   wherein said transmitter upon activation emits said distress beacon to alert
   and disclose the location of said user to at least one selected recipient.
2. The transmitter as claimed in claim 1 wherein said vital signs include one or
   more of blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and hormone levels (e.g.
   cortisol and adrenaline).
3. The transmitter as claimed in claim 2 wherein said transmitter includes
   sensors comprising GPS, WiFi, EM wave detection.
4. The transmitter as claimed in claim 2 wherein said transmitter includes
   electromagnetic (EM) based communication components including Bluetooth
   or WiFi capable of emitting an EM signal.

                                    -14
5. The transmitter as claimed in claim 4 wherein a housing for the transmitter is
   waterproof, heat resistant and is constructed from a biocompatible polymer.
6. The transmitter as claimed in claim 5 wherein said polymer is a polyester,
   ABS or a polycarbonate.
7. The transmitter as claimed in claim 6 wherein said transmitter encapsulates a
   SIM which is serviceable via a mobile phone account.
8. The transmitter as claimed in claim 7 wherein the housing is shaped and sized
   to closely follow the contours of part of the user's outer ear.
9. The transmitter as claimed in claim 8 wherein said part of the user's outer ear
    is the helix.
10. The transmitter as claimed in claim 9 wherein said housing is adapted for
   attachment to said outer ear using a studs (orbital piercing) or other medical
   or surgical procedure.

                                    -15
11.The transmitter as claimed in claim 7 wherein the housing for the transmitter
    comprises capsules which are formed at the ends of a U shaped spring clip to
    engage over said outer ear.
12. The transmitter as claimed in and one of claims 1 to 7 wherein said housing
    is disc shaped and is permanently securable to a user's wrist, upper arm or
   finger.
13. A personal alarm and monitoring device which includes a transmitter as
    claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11.


2/6




