                                         -17
                                         ABSTRACT
A surgical training device for practicing the passing of at least one needle and suture,
comprising: a base having an outer surface; and a plurality of eyelets connected to the
base and extending away from the outer surface, each eyelet having an aperture
residing above the outer surface and sized and configured for passing a needle and
suture; at least one eyelet being flexible to increase the difficulty of performing suture
passing.

                       10
                22
        282             0 16
 14
                          18
24
     26             20
  24
            F1IG. 1

                                              -1
          SURGICAL TRAINING MODEL FOR LAPAROSCOPIC PROCEDURES
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001]        This application is divided from and claims the benefit of the priority of
patent application no. 2013323463 filed 26 September 2013, which claims priority to
and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/706,602 entitled
"Surgical training model for laparoscopic procedures" filed on September 27, 2012, the
content of both of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        [0002]        This application is generally related to surgical training tools, and in
particular, to simulated tissue structures and models for teaching and practicing various
surgical techniques and procedures related but not limited to laparoscopic, endoscopic
and minimally invasive surgery.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        [0003]        Medical students as well as experienced doctors learning new surgical
techniques must undergo extensive training before they are qualified to perform surgery
on human patients. The training must teach proper techniques employing various
medical devices for cutting, penetrating, clamping, grasping, stapling, cauterizing and
suturing a variety of tissue types. The range of possibilities that a trainee may
encounter is great. For example, different organs and patient anatomies and diseases
are presented. The thickness and consistency of the various tissue layers will also vary
from one part of the body to the next and from one patient to another. Different
procedures demand different skills. Furthermore, the trainee must practice techniques
in various anatomical environs that are influenced by factors such as the size and
condition of the patient, the adjacent anatomical landscape and the types of targeted
tissues and whether they are readily accessible or relatively inaccessible.
        [0004]        Numerous teaching aids, trainers, simulators and model organs are
available for one or more aspects of surgical training. However, there is a need for
models or simulated tissue elements that are likely to be encountered in and that can be
9706787 1 (GHMatters) P100749.AU.1

                                          -2
used for practicing endoscopic and laparoscopic, minimally invasive surgical
procedures. In laparoscopic surgery, a trocar or cannula is inserted to access a body
cavity and to create a channel for the insertion of a camera such as a laparoscope. The
camera provides a live video feed capturing images that are then displayed to the
surgeon on one or more monitors. At least one additional small incision is made
through which another trocar/cannula is inserted to create a pathway through which
surgical instruments can be passed for performing procedures observed on the monitor.
The targeted tissue location such as the abdomen is typically enlarged by delivering
carbon dioxide gas to insufflate the body cavity and create a working space large
enough to accommodate the scope and instruments used by the surgeon. The
insufflation pressure in the tissue cavity is maintained by using specialized trocars.
Laparascopic surgery offers a number of advantages when compared with an open
procedure. These advantages include reduced pain, reduced blood and shorter
recovery times due to smaller incisions.
        [0005]     Laparoscopic or endoscopic minimally invasive surgery requires an
increased level of skill compared to open surgery because the target tissue is not
directly observed by the clinician. The target tissue is observed on monitors displaying
a portion of the surgical site that is accessed through a small opening. Therefore,
clinicians need to practice visually determining tissue planes, three-dimensional depth
perception on a two-dimensional viewing screen, hand-to-hand transfer of instruments,
suturing, precision cutting and tissue and instrument manipulation. Typically, models
simulating a particular anatomy or procedure are placed in a simulated pelvic trainer
where the anatomical model is obscured from direct visualization by the practitioner.
Ports in the trainer are employed for passing instruments to practice techniques on the
anatomical model hidden from direct visualization. Simulated pelvic trainers provide a
functional, inexpensive and practical means to train surgeons and residents the basic
skills and typical techniques used in laparoscopic surgery such as grasping,
manipulating, cutting, tying knots, suturing, stapling, cauterizing as well as how to
perform specific surgical procedures that utilized these basic skills. Simluated pelvic
trainers are also effective sales tools for demonstrating medical devices required to
perform these laparoscopic procedures.

                                           -3
        [0006]      One of the techniques mentioned above that requires practice in
endoscopic or laparoscopic minimally invasive surgery is the passing of sutures and
suturing which requires the clinician to develop skills such as three-dimensional depth
perception and hand-to-hand transfer of a needle and suture while the target tissue and
instruments are observed on a two-dimensional video monitor. Therefore, it is desirable
to present a model suitable for practicing suturing and, in particular, there is a need for a
model that isolates a particular step of a procedure for the trainee such as the passing
of sutures for the clinician to practice in a simulated laparoscopic environment. The
laparoscopic training model is removably placed inside a simulated laparoscopic
environment such as a laparoscopic trainer in which it is at least partially obscured from
direct visualization. A camera and monitor provide visualization to the practitioner.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        [0007]      According to one aspect of the invention, a surgical training device for
practicing the passing of at least one needle and suture is provided. The surgical
training device, comprises:
        a base having an outer surface; and
        a plurality of eyelets connected to the base and extending away from the outer
surface, each eyelet having an aperture residing above the outer surface and sized and
configured for passing a needle and suture; at least one eyelet being flexible to increase
the difficulty of performing suture passing.
        [0008]          In an embodiment, the aperture requires to be pierced.
        [0009]          In another embodiment, at least one eyelet of the plurality of
eyelets is retractable with respect to the outer surface.
        [00010]                In one embodiment, the eyelets include a neck portion and a
head portion, the head portion defining the aperture and the neck portion being
connected to the base.
        [00011]         In a certain embodiment, the eyelet includes penetrable material.
        [00012]         In an embodiment, the eyelets are deflectable by contact with a
suture needle.
        [00013]         In another embodiment, at least one of the eyelets rotate with

                                           -4
respect to the base to increase the difficulty of passing sutures.
        [00014]         In a further embodiment, the outer surface of the base is curved.
        [00015]         In an embodiment, the base is pliable such that force exerted on an
eyelet flexes the base.
        [00016]         In one embodiment, the base is flexible.
        [00017]         In an embodiment, at least one aperture of the plurality of eyelets is
covered with silicone.
        [00018]        According to one aspect of the invention, a surgical training device
for practicing the passing of at least one needle and suture is provided, the surgical
training device comprising:
        a model comprising:
                   a base having an outer surface, the base being flexible such that
        manipulation of the model with surgical instruments flexes the outer surface; and
                   a plurality of eyelets connected directly to the base and extending
        away from the outer surface, each eyelet having an aperture sized and
        configured for passing a needle and suture.
        [00019]         In an embodiment, each aperture resides above the outer surface.
        [00020]         In an embodiment, at least one of the eyelets is flexible to increase
the difficulty of performing suture passing.
        [00021]         In another embodiment, a force exerted on an eyelet flexes the
base.
        [00022]         In a further embodiment, the model is disposed inside a cavity of a
laparoscopic trainer.
        [00023]         In a certain embodiment, at least one eyelet rotates with respect to
the base to increase the difficulty of passing sutures.
        [00024]         In one embodiment, the outer surface is contoured.
        [00025]         In an embodiment, the base is made of pliable silicone or rubber.
        [00026]         In another embodiment, the aperture of at least one eyelet is
spaced from the outer surface.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

                                           -5
       [00027]         In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained,
embodiments will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the
accompanying drawing, in which:
       [00028]         FIG. 1 illustrates a top perspective view of a surgical training device
according to the present invention.
       [00029]         FIG. 2 illustrates a top perspective view of a model according to the
present invention.
       [00030]         FIG. 3 illustrates a top perspective view of a model according to the
present invention.
       [00031]         FIGs. 4A-4D illustrate various eyelets according to the present
invention.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
       [00032]        A surgical training device 10 that is configured to mimic the torso of
a patient such as the abdominal region is shown in FIG. 1. The surgical training device
10 provides a body cavity 12 substantially obscured from the user for receiving
simulated or live tissue or model organs or training models of the like described in this
invention. The body cavity 12 is accessed via a tissue simulation region 14 that is
penetrated by the user employing devices to practice surgical techniques on the tissue
or practice model found located in the body cavity 12. Although the body cavity 12 is
shown to be accessible through a tissue simulation region, a hand-assisted access
device or single-site port device may be alternatively employed to access the body
cavity 12. An exemplary surgical training device is described in U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 13/248,449 entitled "Portable Laparoscopic Trainer" filed on September 29,
2011 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The surgical training device
10 is particularly well suited for practicing laparoscopic or other minimally invasive
surgical procedures.
       [00033]        Still referencing FIG. 1, the surgical training device 10 includes a
top cover 16 connected to and spaced apart from a base 18 by at least one leg 20.
FIG. 1 shows a plurality of legs 20. The surgical training device 10 is configured to
mimic the torso of a patient such as the abdominal region. The top cover 16 is

                                         -6
representative of the anterior surface of the patient and the space 12 between the top
cover 16 and the base 18 is representative of an interior of the patient or body cavity
where organs reside. The surgical trainer 10 is a useful tool for teaching, practicing and
demonstrating various surgical procedures and their related instruments in simulation of
a patient undergoing a surgical procedure. Surgical instruments are inserted into the
cavity 12 through the tissue simulation region 14 as well as through pre-established
apertures 22 in the top cover 16. Various tools and techniques may be used to
penetrate the top cover 16 to perform mock procedures on simulated organs or practice
models placed between the top cover 16 and the base 18. The base 18 includes a
model-receiving area 24 or tray for staging or holding a simulated tissue model or live
tissue. The model-receiving area 24 of the base 18 includes frame-like elements for
holding the model (not shown) in place. To help retain a simulated tissue model or live
organs on the base 18, a clip attached to a retractable wire is provided at locations 26.
The retractable wire is extended and then clipped to hold the tissue model in position
substantially beneath the tissue simulation region 14. Other means for retaining the
tissue model include a patch of hook-and-loop type fastening material (VELCRO@)
affixed to the base 18 in the model receiving area 24 such that it is removably
connectable to a complementary piece of hook-and-loop type fastening material
(VELCRO@) affixed to the model.
        [00034]       A video display monitor 28 that is hinged to the top cover 16 is
shown in a closed orientation in FIG. 1. The video monitor 62 is connectable to a
variety of visual systems for delivering an image to the monitor. For example, a
laparoscope inserted through one of the pre-established apertures 22 or a webcam
located in the cavity and used to observe the simulated procedure can be connected to
the video monitor 28 and/or a mobile computing device to provide an image to the user.
Also, audio recording or delivery means may also be provided and integrated with the
trainer 10 to provide audio and visual capabilities. Means for connecting a portable
memory storage device such as a flash drive, smart phone, digital audio or video player,
or other digital mobile device is also provided, to record training procedures and/or play
back pre-recorded videos on the monitor for demonstration purposes. Of course,
connection means for providing an audio visual output to a screen larger than the

                                            -7
monitor is provided. In another variation, the top cover 10 does not include a video
display but includes means for connecting with a laptop computer, a mobile digital
device or tablet such as an IPAD@ and connecting it by wire or wirelessly to the trainer.
        [00035]        When assembled, the top cover 16 is positioned directly above the
base 18 with the legs 20 located substantially around the periphery and interconnected
between the top cover 16 and base 18. The top cover 16 and base 18 are substantially
the same shape and size and have substantially the same peripheral outline. The
internal cavity is partially or entirely obscured from view. In the variation shown in FIG.
1, the legs include openings to allow ambient light to illuminate the internal cavity as
much as possible and also to advantageously provide as much weight reduction as
possible for convenient portability. The top cover 16 is removable from the legs 20
which in turn are removable or collapsible via hinges or the like with respect to the base
18. Therefore, the unassembled trainer 10 has a reduced height that makes for easier
portability. In essence, the surgical trainer 10 provides a simulated body cavity 12 that
is obscured from the user. The body cavity 12 is configured to receive at least one
surgical model accessible via at least one tissue simulation region 14 and/or apertures
22 in the top cover 16 through which the user may access the models to practice
laparoscopic or endoscopic minimally invasive surgical techniques.
        [00036]        A model 30 for the practice of passing sutures in laparoscopic
procedures according to the present invention is shown in FIG. 2. The model 30 is
configured to be placed inside the surgical training device 10 described above or other
similar surgical trainer. The model 30 includes a base 32, and a plurality of eyelets 34
connected to the surface of the base 32.
        [00037]        The base 32 of the model 30 is a platform that serves as a bottom
support for the rest of the model 30 and it is sized and configured such that the model
does not tip over. The platform is made of any material such as metal or plastic. The
base 32 is of sufficient heft to maintain the stability of the model 30 in the upright
position while being manipulated by a user. The model 30 is sized and configured to be
placed into the body cavity 12 of the surgical trainer 10 in the location of the model
receiving area 24. The underside of the base 32 is provided with means to affix the
model 30 inside the surgical trainer 10. Such means to affix the model 30 inside the

                                           -8
trainer 10 include but are not limited to adhesive, suction cup, magnet, snap-fit, and a
hook-and-loop type fastener material attached to the bottom surface of the base 32 and
configured to connect with a complementary hook-and-loop type fastener material or
adhesive attached to the base 18 of the surgical trainer 30.
        [00038]         The base 32 of the model 30 includes an outer surface 36 which
may be flat or contoured in various ways. For example, the outer surface can be
convex as shown in FIG. 2. The outer surface 36 may be concave, curved, sloped,
undulating or otherwise have any configuration or geography including an upward hill, a
downward hill, valleys and peaks including smaller surface additions such bumps or
divots that complement the larger features. The geography of the outer surface 36
creates a varying surface or numerous planes to permit the user to practice depth
perception in laparoscopic surgery. In one variation, the base 32 is not rigid and solid
but is pliable, resilient and flexible, and deflectable when manipulated with surgical
instruments that would be used in laparoscopic surgery. As such, the base 32 is made
of pliable, resilient material such as rubber or silicone. Another example of the
geography of the outer surface 36 of the base 32 is shown in FIG. 3. The model 30 in
FIGs. 2 and 3 is shown positioned with the operative outer surface 36 facing upwardly.
However, the model 30 may be positioned on its side in the trainer 10 to provide
another variation and representation of internal bodily structures for practicing
laparoscopic procedures. In this alternative orientation, the side surface of the model
30 is provided with eyelets 34.
        [00039]         The model 30 includes a plurality of eyelets or apertures 34
connected to the base 32 such that the eyelets 34 are configured to reside above the
outer surface 36 or side surface of the model 30 as shown in FIGs. 2 and 3. An
exemplary eyelet 34 is shown in FIG. 4A. In general, the eyelet 34 is configured to
provide an opening through which a clinician can practice passing a needle and suture.
The eyelet 34 includes a neck portion 38 and a head portion 40. The head portion 40
includes at least one aperture 42 defining an aperture plane in which it lies. Although
the aperture 42 is shown to have a circular shape, the invention is not so limited and the
aperture 42 can have any shape such as a polygon or closed curve. While FIG. 4A
depicts a closed aperture 42, an open aperture 44 is within the scope of the present

                                           -9
invention as shown in FIG. 4B. An open or hook-like aperture 44 is an aperture that is
open and only partially enclosed by surrounding material of the head portion 40 leaving
an opening or entry into the aperture 40 that is anywhere from approximately 1/8 to 1/4
of the aperture perimeter in size. In one variation, the aperture 42 of the eyelet 34 is
covered with a layer of silicone or other penetrable material that may include a mesh or
fabric reinforcement such that passing a needle and suture through the aperture 42
requires piercing the covering of the aperture 42 with the needle and suture. The
covering mimics real tissue and thus contributes to the realism of the exercise.
        [00040]        In one variation, the eyelet 34 is rigid. In another variation, the
neck portion 38 of the eyelet 34 is flexible while the head portion 40 is rigid and in
another variation both the neck portion 38 and head portion 40 are flexible or capable of
being deflected. A deflectable or flexible eyelet 34 increases the difficult of performing
suture passing. In another variation, the eyelet 34 is pre-bent or angled. The plane
defined by the aperture intersects with the longitudinal axis of the neck portion 38 as
shown in FIGs. 4C and 4D. In general, the eyelet 34 provides an aperture 42 for the
surgeon to practice passing a needle and suture through. The neck 38 of the eyelet 34
is configured to space the aperture 42 from the outer surface 36 of the base 32. Other
means for spacing the aperture 42 from the outer surface 36 of the base 32 are within
the scope of the present invention. Also, the neck 38 is configured to connect to the
base 32 and as such, the neck 38 may include threads, adhesive or other means for
connection to the base. Also, the eyelet 34 may be mounted to the base 32 such that
the entire eyelet 34 rotates or is rotatable with respect to the base 32 and, in another
variation, the eyelet 34 is configured such that the head 40 of the eyelet 34 rotates with
respect to the neck portion 38 in a free-spinning eyelet configuration. Such resulting
rotatability of the aperture 42 with respect to the base 32 increases the difficulty of
passing sutures.
        [00041]        A plurality of eyelets 34 are connected to the outer surface 36 of
the base 32 as shown in FIGs. 2 and 3. In another variation, one or more eyelets 34 is
retractable with respect to the outer surface 36 such that the retractable eyelet 34 has a
first position in which the aperture 42 of the eyelet 34 is at a first distance relative to the
outer surface 36 and a second position in which the aperture 42 is at a second distance

                                         -10
relative to the outer surface 36 wherein the second distance is greater above the outer
surface 36 than the first distance. In one variation, the eyelet 34 is biased towards the
first position such that the eyelet 34 has a tendency to spring back toward the first
position. Furthermore, at least one eyelet 34 is connected to the base 32 such that at
least a portion of the eyelet 34, such as at least a portion of the aperture 42 of the eyelet
36, is beneath the upper surface 36 so that the eyelet 34 is visible to user but, in order
to pass a suture through the eyelet 34, the eyelet 34 laying partially beneath the surface
is pulled-up or extracted by the user and held with one instrument in the extracted
position so that the suture needle and suture may be passed through the aperture 42 of
the eyelet 34 with another instrument held in the opposite hand. When released from
the extracted position, the eyelet 34 would retract back to its at least partial sub-surface
position. The retractable eyelet 34 is embedded in an elastic base different from the
upper surface 36 or spring biased with respect to the upper surface 36. Also, the
retractable eyelet 34 is biased in the retracted position such that force is required to pull
the eyelet above surface and hold it in position above the upper surface 36 for suture
passing. When released, the eyelet 34 would be pulled back toward beneath the
surface. In another variation, the retractable eyelets 34 are not biased inwardly but
move in and out between a first position and a second above-surface position wherein
the first position may be at least partially beneath the surface. The eyelets 34 would be
slotted to move within a slot axially relative to the upper surface 36. Each eyelet 34
may be the same or the plurality of eyelets 34 may include a mixture of eyelets 34
having different features described above such as eyelets with apertures 42 of different
sizes and shapes, flexible eyelets, rotatable eyelets, covered eyelets, open eyelets,
deflectable eyelets, retractable eyelets, plastically deformable eyelets which when
deflected remain deflected and deflectable eyelets that resume their previous position
after being deflected. The plurality of eyelets 34 may include eyelets of different colors
including colors that blend in against the background or color of the outer surface 36 of
the base 32 for increased difficulty in visualizing the eyelet aperture 42 on a camera
viewing monitor. Also, at least one of the eyelets 34 attached to the base 32 may also
be colored such that the eyelet 34 visually stands out or is in contrast when viewed
against the background or outer surface 36 of the base with a laparoscope.

                                          - 11
Furthermore, the plurality of eyelets 34 may include one or more groups of eyelets that
have the same color, thus being color-coded so that a predetermined path along which
a suture must be passed is defined by the color of the eyelets 34. For example, a set of
green-colored eyelets 34 may define either a predetermined path that is particular to a
surgical procedure or may define a relatively easy skill level defined by eyelets 34 with
relatively large apertures 42, for example. Alternatively, the predetermined path may be
marked not with the coloring of the eyelets 34 but with markings 46 on the outer surface
36 of the base 32 as shown in FIG. 2. Such markings 46 on the outer surface 36 can
include anatomical landmarks from which the user can deduct the correct pathway to
follow for passing sutures. Alternatively, the markings 46 are lines drawn on the outer
surface 36 between eyelets 34 interconnecting them to define the predetermined path.
The line 46 is contrast colored against the base 32 as in FIG. 2 and may be color-coded
to indicate a particular predetermined pathway. Also, among the plurality of eyelets 34
attached to the base 32, groups of eyelets 34 may be interconnected with markings 46
such as lines drawn on the base 32 that connect the eyelets 34 within a certain group.
The certain group of eyelets can define a predetermined pathway to follow for testing
the skill of the user making sure that all eyelets 34 of a particular group lying along a
particular pathway have been passed through with a suture. Hence, the arrangement
and choice of eyelets 34 in a subset of eyelets 34 among a plurality attached to the
base, can be used to improve the skill of passing a needle and suture through an
aperture and as such the pathways and eyelets selected in each pathway can vary in
difficulty from relatively easy eyelets, for example, ones having large apertures,
standing upright, being rigid or located in relatively flat areas of the outer surface and
being starkly contrasted against the background to more difficult eyelets, for example
ones comprising smaller apertures, flexible eyelets, deflectable eyelets so eyelets
colored so as to blend in with the background. The base 32 may be sold as part of a kit
with a plurality of different types of eyelets 34 described above which the user would
then assemble by selecting from the plurality of different eyelets and then placing them
as desired into the base 32 to form a custom pathway for practice. The eyelets 34 and
base 32 are configured such that the eyelets 34 can be pushed through the outer
surface 36 of the base 32 to securely attach the eyelets 34. The kit may also include

                                        -12
organs or other anatomical features that can also be connected to the base to create an
anatomy suitable for a particular practice.
         [00042]      A predetermined pathway for passing sutures may be predefined
based on the surgical procedure to be practiced. For example, the practice of closing
the vaginal vault may require a generally circular pathway at a particular angle with
eyelets having small apertures. Accordingly, such a pathway may be defined and
marked by eyelets of the same color or markings on the base for the surgeon to follow.
Another surgical procedure such as anastomosis of a bowel may require a larger
generally circular pathway of closely spaced pairs of eyelets. Hence, the surgical
procedure to be practiced may determine the types of eyelets used and their
arrangement and the markings indicating that particular pathway to the user.
         [00043]      The eyelets 34 are embedded within the base in a variety of
patterns and configurations creating patterns and pathways. Some pathways may be
aimed at making sure the clinician visualizes all the eyelets and successfully passes
through all within a set without missing ones that are difficult to visualize or to pass a
suture through. Of course, the eyelets are placed at differing heights and angles with
the objective being for the surgeon to pass an actual suture needle or simulated suture
needle through each eyelet and in a specific order to complete each pathway. There
are multiple pathways with different sized eyelets for different skill levels which allows
for skill advancement within the same platform. The practice model 30 is placed inside
a laparoscopic trainer 10 and a laparoscope is inserted into the cavity 12 to observe the
model 30. A suture needle and suture are passed through one of the apertures 22 or
tissue simulation region 14 into the cavity 12 and the procedure of passing the suture
through the eyelets 34 is observed on the video display monitor 28 providing a two
dimensional video representation to the practitioner of the three-dimensional model 30
inside the laparoscopic trainer 10 and obscured from direct visualization. The model 30
and trainer 10 combination advantageously allow the user to practice identifying a
desired surgical pathway for the suture, moving the needle and passing the suture
through a number of eyelets 34 laparoscopically.
         [00044]      The model 30 may include interchangeable eyelets 34 in which the
user may personally select certain eyelets or select a predetermined set of eyelets that

                                           -13
corresponds to a pathway of a surgical procedure for practicing certain skills, difficulty
levels or procedures. The model 30 is advantageously challenging and adjustable for
all skill levels and effective in that the user must use both hands equally to complete the
path. The suture needle must also be manipulated to be facing the proper direction for
each pass in order to successfully pass it through the aperture. Hence, the model is
particularly useful for the practice of laparoscopic suture passing, determining and
visualizing tissue planes, the practice of depth perception and visualization of eyelets,
hand-to-hand transfer of instruments and needles, suturing and tissue manipulation.
This model allows clinicians to keep their skills sharp or to "warm-up" beforehand for
successful outcomes in real surgery.
         [00045]        While certain embodiments have been particularly shown and
described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof, it will be understood by
those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made
therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof as defined by the following
claims.
         [00046]        In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the
invention, except where the context requires otherwise owing to express language or
necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, that is, to specify the presence of the stated
features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
embodiments of the invention.
         [00047]        Further, any reference herein to prior art is not intended to imply
that such prior art forms or formed a part of the common general knowledge in any
country.

                                          - 14
                                            CLAIMS
        1.      A surgical training device for practicing the passing of at least one needle
and suture, comprising:
        a base having an outer surface; and
        a plurality of eyelets connected to the base and extending away from the outer
surface, each eyelet having an aperture residing above the outer surface and sized and
configured for passing a needle and suture; at least one eyelet being flexible to increase
the difficulty of performing suture passing.
        2.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the aperture requires to be
pierced.
        3.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein at least one eyelet of the
plurality of eyelets is retractable with respect to the outer surface.
        4.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the eyelets include a neck
portion and a head portion, the head portion defining the aperture and the neck portion
being connected to the base.
        5.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the eyelet includes
penetrable material.
        6.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the eyelets are deflectable
by contact with a suture needle.
        7.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein at least one of the eyelets
rotate with respect to the base to increase the difficulty of passing sutures.
        8.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the outer surface of the
base is curved.

                                           -15
        9.      The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the base is pliable such
that force exerted on an eyelet flexes the base.
         10.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the base is flexible.
         11.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein at least one aperture of the
plurality of eyelets is covered with silicone.
         12.    A surgical training device for practicing the passing of at least one needle
and suture, comprising:
        a model comprising:
                a base having an outer surface, the base being flexible such that
         manipulation of the model with surgical instruments flexes the outer surface; and
                a plurality of eyelets connected directly to the base and extending away
        from the outer surface, each eyelet having an aperture sized and configured for
         passing a needle and suture.
         13.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein each aperture resides
above the outer surface.
         14.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein at least one of the eyelets
is flexible to increase the difficulty of performing suture passing.
         15.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein a force exerted on an
eyelet flexes the base.
         16.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the model is disposed
inside a cavity of a laparoscopic trainer.

                                        -16
        17.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein at least one eyelet rotates
with respect to the base to increase the difficulty of passing sutures.
        18.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the outer surface is
contoured.
        19.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the base is made of pliable
silicone or rubber.
        20.    The surgical training device of claim 1 wherein the aperture of at least one
eyelet is spaced from the outer surface.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
