  Abstrast
           A power tool with an energy recovery function including a casing, a brushless motor
  located within the casing, a battery pack connected to the casing, and a switching circuit. The
  brushless motor is used for driving a working part. The battery pack is connected to the
5 brushless motor via the switching circuit. The switching circuit is configured to allow a first
  part of the braking energy from the brushless motor to be recovered to the battery pack by
  controlling on/off of the switching circuit when the brushless motor tends to be stopped
  during rotation. When the controller of the power tool detects a need to decelerate/stop the
  motor, the service time of the battery is prolonged by recharging a part of the energy back to
0 the battery through controlling the circuit dynamic and adjusting the on/off duty cycle of the
  circuit.
  10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

         2/2
             C\\
             CCL
 (0;,
coccc
10 )
      y0

                                                     - 1
                                     ENERGY RECYCLE ON POWER TOOLS
   Technical Field
            The present invention relates to a power supply device for a handheld power tool, and in
   particular to a power supply system for a power tool which has a energy saving function.
 5 Background art
            At present, handheld power tools usually adopt brushless direct current motors (BLDC)
   as the power source, because it has a smaller volume, provides a more efficient output, and
   possesses a better reliability and service life over brushed motors. Three-phase brushless
   direct current motor is the most typical brushless motor type. To keep the normal operation of
 0 the brushless motor under control, a motor controller is used to generate a corresponding
   pulse width modulation (PWM) control signal which has a frequency much higher than the
   rotational speed of the motor to control the motor to rotate continuously, according to the
   position of the rotor (for example, by using a Hall element or an optical encoder).
            However, in traditional brushless direct current motors, the rotor of the motor does not
 5 stop rotation immediately after the PWM signal from the motor controller is ceased. To the
   contrary, the rotor will continue to rotate due to inertia. However, since the coils on the stator
   is not excited by currents from the motor controller at this time, the continuous rotation of the
   rotor will be hindered due to the variation of the electromagnetic field, and kinetic energy of
   the rotor rotation is gradually transformed to heat and dissipated due to the hindrance. Such
20 heat means that the residual mechanical kinetic energy cannot be recovered and recycled
   when the motor stops rotation.
   Summary of the invention
            Therefore, embodiments in the present invention provide an improved power tool which
   can overcome or at least reduce the above-mentioned technical problem.
25          In one aspect of the present invention, there is provided is an power tool with an energy
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                                     - 2
   recovery function. The power tool includes a casing; a brushless motor located within the
   casing and used for driving a working part; a battery pack connected to the casing; and a
   switching circuit. The battery pack is connected to the brushless motor through the switching
   circuit. The switching circuit is configured to allow a first part of a braking energy from the
 5 brushless motor to be recovered to the battery pack by controlling the on/off of the switching
   circuit when the brushless motor tends to be stopped during rotation.
            Preferably, the power tool further contains a controller connected to the switching circuit
   so as to control the on/off of the switching circuit. The controller also controls the on/off duty
   cycle of the switching circuit so as to allow the first part of the braking energy to be recovered
 0 to the battery pack in a form no higher than the maximum permissible voltage or current.
            More preferably, the controller controls the on/off of the switching circuit through the
   pulse width modulation signal.
            According to a variation of the preferred embodiments, a second part of the braking
   energy in the brushless motor is dissipated in a form of heat by the controller controlling the
 5 duty cycle.
            In one specific implementation, the switching circuit contains six switching elements.
   The brushless motor is a three-phase motor, each phase of which is connected to the
   positive and negative electrodes of the battery pack respectively through two switching
   elements.
20          Preferably, the switching elements are MOSFETs or IGBTs.
            In another modified embodiment, the battery pack is removably mounted to the casing.
            The present invention therefore recovers part of the energy back to the battery pack when
   the power tool decelerates / stops working by the controller controlling the switching circuit.
   As a result, the present invention achieves a supplement to the power of the battery pack,
25 which prolongs the service time of the battery. Meanwhile, because pf the energy recovery
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                                     - 3
   which equals to conducting an active braking on the motor, the time between when the motor
   starts to decelerate and it totally stops is shortened, which reduces the waiting time of the user.
   In addition, the possibility that user is hurt by the still-rotating working part (such as a drill)
   during the above time period is reduced.
 5 Description of the drawings
            The properties and advantages of the present invention can be further understood by
   referring the remained part of the specification and drawings. The marker numbers for an
   identical component in the drawings are the same. Under certain circumstances, a sub-marker
   is placed behind a certain maker and hyphen so as to represent one of many similar
 0 components. When a marker number is mentioned without specifying any existed sub-marker,
   it means for all these similar components.
            Fig. 1 shows an illustration of an appearance of the power tool according to one
   embodiment of the present invention.
            Fig. 2 shows a schematic diagram of the circuit connection inside the power tool
 5 according to another embodiment of the present invention.
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
            Embodiments in the present invention utilize a controlled switching circuit to achieve the
   recovery of kinetic energy back to an electric energy during the motor braking. Other different
   merits and advantages provided in each embodiments of the present invention can be easily
20 understood from the following description.
            Now refer to Fig. 1. As shown in Fig. 1, the first embodiment of the present invention is
   an power tool designed as a handheld type. The power tool includes a casing including a body
   portion 20, a handle portion 28, and a driving motor 22 mounted within the body portion 20.
   The driving motor 22 is configured to drive one or more working part in the power tool, such
25 as the middle gear mechanism (not shown) and the final tool head holder 24. The body
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                                     - 4
   portion 20 substantially extends along the axis direction defined by the motor axis (not shown)
   of the driving motor 22. The handle portion 28 is connected in a way that it extends along the
   direction substantially downward from the body portion 20 and inclines from the vertical
   direction perpendicular to the axis direction. A trigger is configured on the handle portion 28
 5 and exposed to the exterior environment, which is used to operate so as to open/close the
   power tool. There is a battery pack 30 in the bottom of the handle portion 28 and it is
   removably connected to the power tool to power the circuit within the power tool. The battery
   pack 30 can be of lithium ion type or a lithium type.
            Fig.2 shows the internal structure of the power tool according to another embodiment of
 0 the present invention. This power tool has parts similar to the power tool shown in the above
   Fig. 1, and includes a battery pack, a motor, a casing and a working part etc., which are not
   described in details again herein. As shown in Fig. 2, the battery pack 50 in this embodiment
   is connected to the three phase brushless motor 52 through the switching circuit. This
   switching circuit contains six Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field-Effect Transistor (MOSFET)
 5 54 acting as the switching elements. These MOSFET 54 are divided into three groups, each of
   which including two MOSFETs 54 connecting to one phase of the motor 52 to the positive
   terminal 58 and the negative terminal 60 of the battery pack 50 respectively. For example,
   MOSFET 54a shown in Fig. 2 connects the positive terminal 58 of the battery pack 50 to the
   first phase input terminal 62a of the motor 52, while MOSFET 54b connects the negative
20 terminal 60 of the battery pack 50 to the first phase input terminal 62a of the motor 52. It
   should be noted that a MOSFET itself does not enable the input terminal of the motor and the
   terminal of the battery pack to be connected always, but rather this is determined depending
   on the signal received from the controller at the grid of MOSFET. Here the so called
   controller (not shown) is the motor controller as a part of the power tool, which controls the
25 on/off of the switching circuit to enable the motor 52 to normally work. The controller, for
   example, can be arranged in a form of PCB circuit board.
            During operation, if the motor is in an accelerated state (for example, the stage from the
   stationary status to the start of rotation, and gradually accelerating to the desired rotation
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                                   - 5
   speed), the controller uses the signal of pulse width modular (PWM) to control MOSFET 54.
   Through the PWM signal, the stator windings in the three phase of the motor 502 is
   successively powered up by a certain order, i.e. the so called reversing, and the controller
   determines the position of the rotor based on devices such as the Hall elements so as to
 5 determine the optimum reversing moment. Operations of such brushless motors are known to
   persons skilled in the art, which will not be described in details herein.
            When the controller of the power tool detects a need to decelerate/stop the motor 52 (for
   example, the users releases the trigger, sets the output speed in a low level, or sets the output
   torque in a high level etc.), the controller will dynamically adjust the on/off duty cycle of the
 0 switching circuit through the switching circuit. Specifically, when the motor 52 needs to stop
   or decelerate to produce a tendency to stop its rotation, the rotor will not stop rotation or
   decelerate to the desired speed immediately. On the contrary, the rotor will continue to rotate
   due to inertia. However, the coil on the stator is not excited by the current from the controller.
   Therefore, the continuous rotation of the rotor will cause the motor 52 to enter the power
 5 generation mode, which means the interactive inductance of the rotor and the stator will result
   in the generation of a current in the stator coil.
            Meanwhile, when the motor 52 needs to be stopped or decelerated, the controller still
   causes an intermittent on/off of the switching circuit, allowing the electric energy produced in
   the stator coil of the motor 52 to selectively enter the battery pack 50 through the switching
20 circuit and recharge the battery pack 50. Specifically speaking, the arrow 56 in Fig. 2 shows
   the flowing direction of the electric energy in the motor 52 braking mode. According to the
   position (for example, as detected by the Hall sensor) of the rotor in relative to the stator in
   the motor 52, the switching circuit in the braking state connects the first phase input terminal
   62a to the positive terminal 58 of the battery pack 50, connects the second phase input
25 terminal 62b of the motor 52 to the positive terminal 58 of the battery pack 50 and connects
   the third phase input terminal 62c of the motor to the positive terminal 58 of the battery pack
   50 successively through MOSFETs 54. Such energy flowing path is exactly opposite to the
   energy flowing path of the motor under states such as normal operation, starting and
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                                    - 6
   acceleration, which enables the battery pack 50 to be charged.
            However, when the motor 52 is in a braking state, the controller will not keep a certain
   MOSFET 54 to be on during the entirety of its corresponding sub-period (for example, a 1200
   angular range of the motor's rotation) but rather is connected within a part of the period, and
 5 such connection time proportion is the so called duty cycle. The purpose for the controller
   controlling the connection period the switching circuit under the braking state through the
   duty cycle is that the recovered electric energy will not go beyond an acceptable scope for the
   battery pack 50 to be charged, including the maximum allowable charging voltage or current
   etc. If the duty cycle is not controlled and MOSFET 54 is switched on during the entire
 0 sub-period, excessive recovery current or voltage may be produced, which will damage the
   battery pack 50. By controlling the duty cycle, one part of the braking energy produced by the
   motor will be recovered and charge the battery pack, while other part of the braking energy
   needs to be dissipated as heat.
            Therefore, by introducing several embodiments, a person skilled in the art can recognize
 5 that different modifications, other structures and equivalents can all be used without departing
   from the nature of the present invention. Correspondingly, the above-mentioned description
   shall not be deemed as limitations to the scope of the present invention determined by the
   following claims.
                For example, the switching elements configured in the switching circuit in the
20 above-mentioned embodiment is MOSFET. However, a person skilled in the art can
   understand that IGBT (Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor) may also be used as the switching
   elements according to the power and/or the output of the battery pack in the motor.
                In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
25 word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

             It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                                     - 8
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A power tool serving the energy recover function, comprising:
              a casing;
              a brushless motor located within the casing and used for driving a working part;
 5            a battery pack connected to the casing; and
              a switching circuit;
              wherein the battery pack is connected to the brushless motor through the switching
   circuit; the switching circuit configured to allow a first part of a braking energy from the
   brushless motor to be recovered to the battery pack by controlling on/off of the switching
 0 circuit when the brushless motor tends to be stopped during rotation.
   2.        The power tool according claim 1, further comprises a controller connected to the
   switching circuit so as to control the on/off of the switching circuit; the controller further
   controlling a duty cycle of the on/off of the switching circuit so as to allow the first part of the
   braking energy to be recovered to the battery pack in a form no higher than the maximum
 5 permitted voltage or current.
   3.        The power tool according claim 2, wherein the controller controls the on/off of the
   switching circuit through a pulse width modulation signal.
   4.        The power tool according claim 2, wherein a second part of the braking energy in the
   brushless motor is dissipated in a form of heat by the controller controlling the duty cycle.
20 5.        The power tool according to any one of claims 2-4, wherein the switching circuit
   comprises six switching elements; the brushless motor being a three-phase motor, each phase
   of which being connected to positive and negative electrodes of the battery pack respectively
   through two said switching elements.
   6.        The power tool according claim 5, wherein the switching elements are MOSFETs or
25 IGBTs.
   10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

                                               - 9
7.        The power tool according to anyone of claims 1-4, wherein the battery pack is
removably mounted to the casing.
10404401_1 (GHMatters) P109130.AU

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                       <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                           56
           58                            54
Battery
Pack 50
                                                              2/2
      60                  54b
                54a                      Motor
                                          52
                           62a
                                 62b                62c
                      Fig. 2

