Abstract
The present invention relates to a dual-chamber pack comprising a first chamber prefilled with
a suspension base and a second chamber prefilled with a powder for suspension comprising
an active ingredient, wherein upon activation of the dual-chamber pack, the contents of both
the chambers are mixed to form an extended release suspension composition which is
characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro dissolution release profile of the
active ingredient upon storage for at least seven days.

           DUAL-CHAMBER PACK FOR EXTENDED RELEASE SUSPENSION
                                         COMPOSITIONS
                                        Field of the Invention
            The present invention relates to a dual-chamber pack comprising a first chamber
 5 prefilled with a suspension base and a second chamber prefilled with a powder for
   suspension comprising an active ingredient, wherein upon activation of the dual-chamber
   pack, the contents of both the chambers are mixed to form an extended release suspension
   composition which is characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro
   dissolution release profile of the active ingredient upon storage for at least seven days.
10                                  Background of the Invention
            Extended release solid compositions are preferred dosage forms over immediate
   release solid compositions, especially for active ingredients showing fluctuations in the
   plasma concentration and for active ingredients having short half-lives. Extended release
   solid compositions can be in the form of tablets or capsules, wherein the release of the
15 active ingredient is controlled by using a reservoir or a matrix system. However, extended
   release solid compositions suffer from certain drawbacks such as difficulty in swallowing,
   particularly for certain groups of patients, e.g., pediatrics and geriatrics, resulting in poor
   patient compliance. Further, high doses of active ingredients lead to large-sized
   compositions which aggravates this problem. Also, there remains a tendency to divide
20 extended release solid compositions such as tablets into small pieces in order to facilitate
   administration, which may ultimately lead to inaccurate dosing and/or dose dumping. In
   view of all this, extended release liquid compositions provide the best alternative over
   extended release solid compositions. Extended release liquid compositions are easy to
   administer, thereby leading to enhanced patient compliance. Additionally, extended
25 release liquid compositions provide a unique advantage of having a flexible dosing
   regimen.
            Extended release liquid compositions are conventionally administered as powder
   for suspensions which are to be reconstituted by the end users at the time of administration
   using household pre-boiled and cooled water. Alternatively, the diluent or purified water is
30 supplied separately along with the bottle having the extended release powder for
   suspension. These conventional packs lack patient compliance and may lead to
                                                    1

   contamination due to improper quality of water. Further, there remains a possibility of
   dosing errors if the diluent or water is not added to the marked level.
            U.S. Patent No. 3,156,369; U.S. Patent No. 3,603,469; U.S. Patent No. 3,840,136;
   and U.S. Patent No. 4,982,875 disclose the use of dual-chamber packs for separately
 5 storing two compositions in two compartments which can be admixed at the time of use.
   The two compartments are separated by a breakable membrane which is ruptured by the
   depression of a plunger so that the one composition gets released into another and is
   mixed. However, there remains a possibility that the membrane fragments may get
   detached and fall into the final product. This may lead to undesirable contamination and
10 can pose serious health hazards. Furthermore, the dual-chamber packs disclosed in the
   prior art have a limited capacity for the compartments which may not be suitable for high
   dose drugs or for drugs which require chronic administration. Also, the liquid composition
   may get permeated into the solid composition across the membrane during storage which
   can lead to the agglomeration of the solid composition. This may result in poor flow of the
15 solid composition, thus affecting the content uniformity of the final product. Also, the
   liquid composition on permeation can affect the stability of moisture-sensitive active
   ingredients.
            The present invention provides a patient compliant dual-chamber pack with a
   significant improvement over the prior art and which fulfills the unmet need of
20 incorporating variety of active ingredients. The present dual-chamber pack can be suitable
   for any class of active ingredients including the high-dose active ingredients, active
   ingredients requiring chronic administration, and/or moisture-sensitive active ingredients.
   Further, the plunger used in the pack of the instant invention is designed in a way such that
   the breakable membrane remains adhered to the plug at the time of activation and
25 membrane fragments do not fall into the final product. During activation, the pack ensures
   that the final product remains safe for the use of patients. The pack also ensures that the
   solid composition is completely released into the liquid composition thereby maintaining
   the content uniformity of the final product. Further, the pack also ensures that there is no
   permeation of moisture into the chamber having solid composition comprising the active
30 ingredient, and the stability of the active ingredient remains unaffected during storage.
           Apart from storage, there remains some of the complexities involved in
   formulating such reconstituted extended release powder for suspension compositions.
   Upon reconstitution, the important prerequisite of these compositions is to provide the
                                                   2

   desired extended release of the active ingredient throughout its shelf life, as irregular
   release may lead to sub-therapeutic or toxic effects. Once reconstituted, the key hurdle
   remains to overcome the leaching of the active ingredient from the coated cores into a
   suspension base during storage. The objective for a scientist remains to develop a
 5 formulation such that the release of the active ingredient into the suspension base during
   storage is avoided, and only when the suspension enters the gastrointestinal tract the
   release is allowed.
            The present invention offers the reconstituted suspension compositions which
   provide the desired extended release of the active ingredient throughout the shelf life of
10 the compositions. In the present invention, the suspension base prevents the leaching of
   the active ingredient from the coated cores and thus ensures substantially similar in-vitro
   dissolution release profile of the active ingredient throughout the shelf life of the
   compositions. This consistent in-vitro release then ensures a steady plasma concentration
   with no fluctuations throughout the shelf life of the compositions.
15          The present invention thus provides a novel patient-compliant dual-chamber pack
   prefilled with solid and liquid compositions in two chambers, which upon mixing forms a
   unique composition providing the desired extended release of the active ingredient
   throughout the shelf life of the composition. The compositions prefilled in the dual
   chamber pack remain stable during the storage.
20                                    Summary of the Invention
            The present invention relates to a dual-chamber pack comprising a first chamber
   prefilled with a suspension base and a second chamber prefilled with a powder for
   suspension comprising an active ingredient, wherein upon activation of the dual-chamber
   pack, the contents of both the chambers are mixed to form an extended release suspension
25 composition which is characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro
   dissolution release profile of the active ingredient upon storage for at least seven days. The
   pack allows the end-users ease of dispensing with only a few simple steps required for
   reconstitution. The pack is suitable from low to high dose active ingredients, active
   ingredients required for chronic administration as well as moisture-sensitive active
30 ingredients. The pack ensures that the powder for suspension falls completely into the
   suspension base thereby maintaining the content uniformity. The pack also ensures that
   final product remains free of any contamination from the pack components and is safe to
                                                   3

   the end-users. Further, the pack ensures the stability of the active ingredient during
   storage.
                                   Brief Description of the Drawings
            Figure 1: Schematic diagram of the components of a dual-chamber pack with a
 5 powder for suspension prefilled in the plunger
            Figure 2: Schematic diagram of the components of a dual-chamber pack with a
   powder for suspension prefilled in the reservoir
            Figure 3: Schematic diagram for the biphasic connector - top view and front view
            Figure 4: Schematic diagram representing the assembly of a dual-chamber pack
10 with a powder for suspension prefilled in the reservoir
            Figure 5: Schematic diagram representing the functioning of a dual-chamber pack
   with a powder for suspension prefilled in the reservoir
                                    Detailed Description of the Invention
           A first aspect of the invention provides a dual-chamber pack comprising;
15              (a) a first chamber prefilled with a suspension base; and
                (b) a second chamber prefilled with a powder for suspension comprising an
                    active ingredient;
   wherein upon activation of the dual-chamber pack, the contents of both the chambers are
   mixed to form an extended release suspension composition which is characterized by
20 having no substantial change in the in-vitro dissolution release profile of the active
   ingredient upon storage for at least seven days.
           According to one embodiment of the above aspect, the powder for suspension
   prefilled in the second chamber is present in a volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about
   500 cc.
25         According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the first chamber comprises
   of a container and the second chamber comprises of an overcap, a plunger, and a plug with
   a breakable polymeric membrane. The plunger is prefilled with the powder for suspension
   in a volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about 30 cc.
                                                   4

            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the first chamber comprises
   of a container and the second chamber comprises of a reservoir, a biphasic connector, a
   plunger, and a plug with a breakable polymeric membrane. The reservoir is prefilled with
   the powder for suspension in a volume greater than about 30 cc. In particular, the reservoir
 5 is prefilled with the powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 30 cc to about
   500 cc.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the biphasic connector of
   the second chamber connects the reservoir to the container of the first chamber.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger ensures the
10 breakable polymeric membrane remains attached to the plug during activation.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger comprise of one
   or more sharp projections with an essential continuous blunt area. In a preferred
   embodiment, the plunger comprise of one sharp projection with an essential continuous
   blunt area. The plunger can further have one or more grooves. The body of the plunger can
15 be in the form of a cylinder or a funnel.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plug is made up of a
   polymeric material selected from the group comprising polyolefin, polyethylene,
   polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride, cyclic olefin polymer, cyclic olefin co-polymer,
   polyethylene terephthalate, polyethylene terephthalate - G, polypropylene, and
20 polycarbonate. In a preferred embodiment, the plug is made up of polyethylene.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plug additionally
   includes one or more moisture barrier additives.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the moisture barrier
   additives are selected from the plastic additive group comprising of monomers and co
25 polymers that get activated through polymerization process to form an effective organic
   chemical.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the moisture barrier
   additives improve the moisture barrier properties by up to 50%. In particular, the moisture
   barrier additives improve the moisture barrier properties by up to 30%.
                                                  5

            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plug with the breakable
   polymeric membrane prevents moisture permeation from the first chamber into the second
   chamber.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the extended release
 5 suspension composition is a stable composition.
            A second aspect of the present invention provides a dual-chamber pack
   comprising:
            a)     a first chamber in the form of a container (7) prefilled with a suspension
                   base and provided with an opening (6) at an upper end;
10          b)     a second chamber comprising:
                   (i)      a overcap (1) optionally having a tamper evident band (2) fitted into
                            a plunger (3);
                   (ii)      the plunger (3) adapted to fit into a plug (4), having a top flat
                            surface, prefilled with a powder for suspension comprising an active
15                          ingredient;
                   (iii)    the plug (4), with a breakable polymeric membrane (5), adapted to
                            fit into the opening (6) from a lower end and into the
                            overcap (1) from the upper end; and
   wherein the overcap (1) has a means to exert pressure onto the plunger (3) so as to
20 partially rupture the breakable polymeric membrane (5) of the plug and deliver the powder
   for suspension into the suspension base of the container (7); and wherein the powder for
   suspension is mixed with the suspension base to form an extended release suspension
   composition which is characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro
   dissolution release profile of the active ingredient upon storage for at least seven days.
25          According to one embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger is prefilled with the
   powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about 30 cc.
            According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger may be opened
   at both the ends. In this case, the plunger is fitted into the overcap first, and then the
   powder for suspension is prefilled into the plunger which is then fitted with a plug.
                                                    6

           According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger comprise of one
   or more sharp projections with an essential continuous blunt area. In a preferred
   embodiment, the plunger comprise of one sharp projection with an essential continuous
   blunt area.
 5         The overcap exerts pressure onto the plunger when it is screwed during activation
   of the dual-chamber pack.
           A third aspect of the present invention provides a dual-chamber pack comprising:
           a)      a first chamber in the form of a container (8) prefilled with a suspension
                   base provided with an opening (7) at an upper end;
10         b)      a second chamber comprising:
                   (i)      a reservoir (1) adapted to fit into a plunger (2) prefilled with a
                            powder for suspension comprising an active ingredient; the plunger
                            (2) is further adapted to fit into a plug (3) having a top flat surface,
                   (ii)     the plug (3), with a breakable polymeric membrane (4), adapted to
15                          fit into the biphasic connector (5) optionally having a tamper
                            evident band (6) which is further connected from the lower end to
                            the opening (7) of the container (8);
   wherein the reservoir (1) at the top of the second chamber has a means to exert pressure
   onto the plunger (2) so as to partially rupture the breakable polymeric membrane (4) of the
20 plug and deliver the powder for suspension into the suspension base of the container (8);
   the second chamber is replaced with a cap (9), and wherein the powder for suspension is
   mixed with the suspension base to form an extended release suspension composition
   which is characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro dissolution release
   profile of the active ingredient upon storage for at least seven days.
25         According to one embodiment of the above aspect, the reservoir is prefilled with
   the powder for suspension in a volume greater than about 30 cc, particularly in a range
   from about 30 cc to about 500 cc.
           According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger comprise of one
   or more sharp projections, wherein the plunger essentially has a continuous blunt area. In a
30 preferred embodiment, the plunger comprise of one sharp projection with a continuous
                                                    7

   blunt area. The body of the plunger can be in the form of a cylinder or a funnel. The funnel
   shaped plunger further helps to increase the capacity to incorporate high dose drugs.
           According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the plunger is opened at
   both the ends.
 5         According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the cap is a conventional
   cap or a child-resistant cap.
           According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the biphasic connector has
   a tamper evident band on the side connected to the container of the first chamber and
   grooves on another side for locking with the reservoir of the second chamber.
10         According to another embodiment of the above aspect, the reservoir exerts
   pressure onto the plunger when it is screwed during activation of the dual-chamber pack.
           A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a method of providing an
   extended release suspension composition stored in a dual-chamber pack, comprising the
   steps of:
15         (a)     providing a first chamber comprising a container (7), a second chamber
                   comprising an overcap (1), a plunger (3), a plug (4) with a breakable
                   polymeric membrane (5);
           (b)     prefilling the container (7) of the first chamber with a suspension base;
           (c)     prefilling the plunger (3) of the second chamber with a powder for
20                 suspension comprising an active ingredient;
           (d)     fixing the plunger (3) into the plug (4) and mounting the plug on an
                   opening (6) of the container (7) of the first chamber;
           (e)     activating the dual-chamber pack by screwing the overcap (1) so that the
                   plunger (3) partially ruptures breakable polymeric membrane (5) of the
25                 plug (4); and
           (f)     shaking the container (7) to allow the mixing of the powder for suspension
                   with the suspension base to obtain the extended release suspension
                   composition which is characterized by having no substantial change in the
                   in-vitro dissolution release profile of the active ingredient upon storage for
30                 at least seven days.
                                                   8

           According to one embodiment of above aspect, the plunger is prefilled with the
   powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about 30 cc.
           According to another embodiment of above aspect, the plunger may be open at
   both the ends. In this case, the plunger is fitted into the overcap first, and then the powder
 5 for suspension is prefilled into the plunger which is then fitted with a plug. Alternatively,
   the overcap may be prefitted with the plunger.
           The overcap may have a tamper-evident band which is to be removed first to start
   the activation process.
           A fifth aspect of the present invention provides a method of providing an extended
10 release suspension composition stored in a dual-chamber pack, comprising the steps of:
           (a)     providing a first chamber comprising a container (8), a second chamber
                   comprising a reservoir (1), a plunger (2), a plug (3) with a breakable
                   polymeric membrane (4), and a biphasic connector (5);
           (b)     prefilling the container (8) of the first chamber with a suspension base to
15                 form a first chamber;
           (c)     prefilling a reservoir (1) of the second chamber with a powder for
                   suspension comprising an active ingredient;
           (d)     fixing the biphasic connector (5) into the reservoir (1);
           (e)     fixing the plunger (2) in the biphasic connector (5);
20         (f)     mounting the plug (3) onto the plunger of the biphasic connector (5) to
                   form the second chamber;
           (g)     mounting the second chamber onto the opening (7) of the container (8) of
                   the first chamber;
           (h)     activating the dual-chamber pack by screwing the reservoir (1) of the
25                 second chamber so that the plunger partially ruptures the circumference of
                   a breakable polymeric membrane; and
           (i)     removing the second chamber and replacing it with a cap (9);
           (j)     shaking the container (8) to allow the mixing of the powder for suspension
                   with the suspension base to obtain the extended release suspension
30                 composition which is characterized by having no substantial change in the
                                                    9

                   in-vitro dissolution release profile of the active ingredient upon storage for
                   at least seven days.
           According to one embodiment of the above aspect, the reservoir is prefilled with
   the powder for suspension in a volume greater than about 30 cc, particularly in a range
 5 from about 30 cc to about 500 cc.
           According to another embodiment of above aspect, the biphasic connector has a
   tamper evident band on the side connected to the container of the first chamber and
   grooves on another side for locking with the reservoir of the second chamber. The tamper
   evident band is removed first to start the activation process.
10         According to another embodiment of the above aspects, the powder for suspension
   comprise of extended release coated cores of an active ingredient, optionally admixed with
   one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The powder for suspension may
   additionally have one or more osmogents, or one or more suspending agents. The core
   may comprise of a release-controlling agent in the form of a matrix with the active
15 ingredient, which can be coated with a coating layer that remain insoluble in the
   suspension base during storage.
           According to another embodiment of the above aspects, the extended release
   coated cores comprise a core comprising an active ingredient and a coating layer over said
   core comprising one or more release-controlling agents.
20         According to another embodiment of the above aspects, the core is in the form of a
   bead, a pellet, a granule, a spheroid, or the like.
           According to another embodiment of the above aspects, the active ingredient is
   layered onto an inert particle to form the core.
           Alternatively, the extended release coated cores comprise a core comprising an
25 active ingredient in a complexed or an ion-exchange resin form and a coating layer over
   said core comprising one or more release-controlling agents.
           According to another embodiment of above aspects, the release-controlling agent is
   selected from the group comprising a pH-dependent release-controlling agent, a pH
   independent release-controlling agent, or mixtures thereof.
30         According to another embodiment of the above aspects, the extended release
   suspension composition is characterized by having an osmolality ratio of at least about 1.
                                                   10

            The term "powder for suspension," as used herein, refers to a solid composition
   comprising extended release coated cores of an active ingredient, optionally admixed with
   one or more osmogents, one or more suspending agents, or pharmaceutically acceptable
   excipients. The plunger or reservoir of the second chamber of the present invention is
 5 prefilled with the powder for suspension.
            The term "suspension base," as used herein, refers to a medium which is used to
   suspend the coated cores of the active ingredient. The suspension base of the present
   invention comprises one or more suspending agents, one or more osmogents, and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. It may further comprise one or more
10 pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The powder for suspension having coated cores
   of active ingredient may be reconstituted with the suspension base having suspending
   agents, osmogents, pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable vehicle. Alternatively, suspending agents, osmogents, or other
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipients may be premixed with the coated cores which may
15 be reconstituted with the pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. The pharmaceutically
   acceptable vehicle may comprise of purified water or a mixture of purified water with one
   or more suitable organic solvents, in particular purified water. The container of the first
   chamber of the present invention is prefilled with a pre-formed suspension base or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle which forms the suspension base at the time of
20 reconstitution. The suspension base generates a hypertonic condition such that there is no
   substantial change in the in-vitro dissolution release profile of the active ingredient upon
   storage of the reconstituted extended release suspension composition for at least seven
   days. The suspension base of the present invention has an osmolality of at least about 1
   osmol/kg of the suspension base.
25          The term "activation," as used herein means a process which reconstitutes the
   powder for suspension with the suspension base. The activation can be done by the end
   users such as patients, pharmacists, or caregivers. The activation process starts by either
   screwing the overcap or the reservoir.
            The term "extended release," as used herein, refers to the release profile of the
30 active ingredient over an extended period of time, e.g., over a period of 4, 6, 8, 12, 24
   hours, or more.
                                                  11

            The term "hypertonic condition," as used herein, means the suspension base has
   higher solute concentration which helps to generate high osmotic pressure such that there
   is no significant leaching of active ingredient from the coated cores into the suspension
   base. In the present invention, the solutes are osmogents i.e., pharmaceutically acceptable
 5 inert water-soluble compounds that contribute towards generating hypertonic conditions in
   the suspension base. Alternatively, a saturated solution of the active ingredient present in
   the suspension base or the external phase may prevent the substantial leaching of the
   active ingredient from the extended release coated cores.
            The term "osmolality ratio," as used herein, means the ratio of the osmolality of
10 the external phase to the osmolality of the internal phase. The external phase herein means
   the suspension base without the multiple extended release coated cores of the active
   ingredient. The internal phase herein means the extended release coated cores of the active
   ingredient. As the direct measurement of the osmolality of the internal phase i.e., coated
   cores is difficult, the osmolality of the internal phase herein, is represented as the
15 osmolality of a solution which prevents significant leaching of the active ingredient from
   the coated cores into the solution. The leaching of the active ingredient from the extended
   release coated cores is determined by the difference in the osmolalities across the coating
   layer and the absence of any significant leaching from the extended release coated cores
   directs that the osmolality of the solution has become equal to the osmolality of the
20 extended release coated cores. The osmolality ratio of the extended release suspension
   compositions of present invention is at least about 1.
            The term "osmolality," as used herein, is expressed as number of moles of any
   water-soluble compound per kg of a liquid phase. The liquid phase can be a suspension
   base or a solution. In the present invention, the osmolality may be measured according to
25 known methods, such as using a vapor pressure osmometer, a colloid osmometer, or a
   freezing point depression osmometer such as Osmomat 030-D or Osmomat 3000, in
   particular by a freezing point depression osmometer.
            The term "inert particle," as used herein, refers to a particle made from a sugar
   sphere also known as a non-pareil seed, a microcrystalline cellulose sphere, a dibasic
30 calcium phosphate bead, a mannitol bead, a silica bead, a tartaric acid pellet, a wax based
   pellet, and the like.
                                                   12

           The term "substantial," as used herein refers to any value which lies within the
   range as defined by a variation of up to +15 from the average value.
           The term "about" as used herein, refers to any value which lies within the range
   defined by a variation of up to +10%   of the value.
 5         The term "significant leaching," as used herein means more than 20% of the active
   ingredient is leached out from the extended release coated cores into the solution.
           The term "stable," as used herein, refers to chemical stability, wherein not more
   than 5% w/w of total related substances are formed on storage at 40'C and      7 5 % relative
   humidity (R.H.) or at 25'C and 60% R.H. for a period of at least three months to the extent
10 necessary for the sale and use of the composition.
           The term "osmogent," as used herein, refers to all pharmaceutically acceptable
   inert water-soluble compounds that can imbibe water and/or aqueous biological fluids.
   The osmogent can be present in the suspension base or in the powder for suspension or
   both. Suitable examples of osmogents or pharmaceutically acceptable inert water-soluble
15 compounds are selected from the group comprising carbohydrates such as xylitol,
   mannitol, sorbitol, arabinose, ribose, xylose, glucose, fructose, mannose, galactose,
   sucrose, maltose, lactose, dextrose and raffinose; water-soluble salts of inorganic acids
   such as magnesium chloride, magnesium sulfate, potassium sulfate, lithium chloride,
   sodium chloride, potassium chloride, lithium hydrogen phosphate, sodium hydrogen
20 phosphate, potassium hydrogen phosphate, lithium dihydrogen phosphate, sodium
   dihydrogen phosphate, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, and sodium phosphate tribasic;
   water-soluble salts of organic acids such as sodium acetate, potassium acetate, magnesium
   succinate, sodium benzoate, sodium citrate, and sodium ascorbate; water-soluble amino
   acids such as glycine, leucine, alanine, methionine; urea or its derivatives; propylene
25 glycol; glycerin; polyethylene oxide; xanthan gum; hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose; and
   mixtures thereof Particularly, the osmogents used in the present invention are xylitol,
   mannitol, glucose, lactose, sucrose, and sodium chloride.
           Suitable suspending agents are selected from the group comprising cellulose
   derivatives such as co-processed spray dried forms of microcrystalline cellulose and
30 carboxymethyl cellulose sodium, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose,
   hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, methylcellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose and its
   salts/derivatives, and microcrystalline cellulose; carbomers; gums such as locust bean
                                                  13

   gum, xanthan gum, tragacanth gum, arabinogalactan gum, agar gum, gellan gum, guar
   gum, apricot gum, karaya gum, sterculia gum, acacia gum, gum arabic, and carrageenan;
   pectin; dextran; gelatin; polyethylene glycols; polyvinyl compounds such as polyvinyl
   acetate, polyvinyl alcohol, and polyvinyl pyrrolidone; sugar alcohols such as xylitol and
 5 mannitol; colloidal silica; and mixtures thereof Co-processed spray dried forms of
   microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose sodium have been marketed under
   the trade names Avicel* RC-501, Avicel* RC-581, Avicel* RC-591, and Avicel* CL-61 1.
            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable excipients," as used herein, refers to
   excipients that are routinely used in pharmaceutical compositions. The pharmaceutically
10 acceptable excipients may comprise glidants, sweeteners, anti-caking agents, wetting
   agents, preservatives, buffering agents, flavoring agents, anti-oxidants, chelating agents,
   and combinations thereof
            The average diameter of the extended release coated cores ranges from about 10
     m to about 2000 gim, particularly from about 50 gm to about 1000 m, and more
15 particularly from about 150 gm to about 500 gim. The finer sizes of the extended release
   coated cores help in avoiding grittiness in the mouth and are therefore more acceptable.
            This dual-chamber pack can be used for active ingredients such as valacyclovir,
   metformin, azithromycin, cloxacillin, clarithromycin, erythromycin, amoxicillin alone or
   in combination with clavulanic acid, cefdinir, cefuroxime axetil, cefixime, cefadroxil,
20 cefpodoxime, cefaclor, cefprozil, fluconazole, voriconazole, acarbose, miglitol, voglibose,
   repaglinide, nateglinide, glibenclamide, glimepride, glipizide, gliclazide, chloropropamide,
   tolbutamide, phenformin, alogliptin, sitagliptin, linagliptin, saxagliptin, rosiglitazone,
   pioglitazone, troglitazone, faraglitazar, englitazone, darglitazone, isaglitazone,
   zorglitazone, liraglutide, muraglitazar, peliglitazar, tesaglitazar, canagliflozin,
25 dapagliflozin, remogliflozin, sergliflozin, verapamil, albuterol, salmeterol, acebutolol,
   sotalol, penicillamine, norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin,
   trovafloxacin, gatifloxacin, tetracycline, demeclocycline hydrochloride, losartan,
   irbesartan, eprosartan, valsartan, diltiazem, isosorbide mononitrate, ranolazine,
   propafenone, hydroxyurea, hydrocodone, delavirdine, pentosan polysulfate, abacavir,
30 amantadine, acyclovir, ganciclovir, valganciclovir, saquinavir, indinavir, nelfinavir,
   lamivudine, didanosine, zidovudine, nabumetone, celecoxib, mefenamic acid, naproxen,
   propoxyphene, cimetidine, ranitidine, albendazole, mebendazole, thiobendazole,
   pyrazinamide, praziquantel, chlorpromazine, sumatriptan, bupropion, aminobenzoate,
                                                  14

   pyridostigmine bromide, potassium chloride, niacin, tocainide, quetiapine, fexofenadine,
   sertraline, chlorpheniramine, rifampin, methenamine, nefazodone, modafinil, metaxalone,
   morphine, sevelamer, lithium carbonate, flecainide acetate, simethicone, methyldopa,
   chlorthiazide, metyrosine, procainamide, entacapone, metoprolol, propanolol
 5 hydrochloride, chlorzoxazone, tolmetin, tramadol, bepridil, phenytoin, gabapentin,
   terbinafine, atorvastatin, doxepine, rifabutin, mesalamine, etidronate, nitrofurantoin,
   choline magnesium trisalicylate, theophylline, nizatidine, methocarbamol, mycophenolate
   mofetil, tolcapone, ticlopidine, capecitabine, orlistat, colsevelam, meperidine,
   hydroxychloroquine, guaifenesin, guanfacine, amiodarone, quinidine, atomoxetine,
10 felbamate, pseudoephedrine, carisoprodol, venlafaxine, etodolac, chondroitin,
   lansoprazole, pantoprazole, esomeprazole, dexlansoprazole, dexmethylphenidate,
   methylphenidate, sodium oxybate, valproic acid or its salts, divalproex, topiramate,
   carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, isotretinoin, oseltamivir, cholestyramine, nystatin, and a
   combination of artemether and lumefantrine.
15          The suspension base or the powder for suspension of the present invention may
   further include an immediate release component of the active ingredient to have a biphasic
   or pulsatile type of release. The immediate release component may be present in the form
   of a powder, a pellet, a bead, a spheroid, or a granule. Alternatively, the immediate
   release component may be present in the form of an immediate release coating over the
20 extended release coated cores. The reconstituted extended release suspension composition
   of the present invention may comprise two or more different active ingredients with
   different type of release profiles or incompatible active ingredients.
            The release-controlling agents used to form the extended release coating are
   selected from a group comprising a pH-dependent release-controlling agent, a pH
25 independent release-controlling agent, or mixtures thereof.
            Suitable examples of pH-dependent release-controlling agents are selected from
   the group comprising acrylic copolymers such as methacrylic acid and methyl
   methacrylate copolymers, e.g., Eudragit* L 100 and Eudragit* S 100, methacrylic acid and
   ethyl acrylate copolymers, e.g., Eudragit* L 100-55 and Eudragit* L 30 D-55,
30 dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and butyl methacrylate and methyl methacrylate
   copolymers e.g., Eudragit* E 100, Eudragit* E PO, methyl acrylate and methacrylic acid
   and octyl acrylate copolymers, styrene and acrylic acid copolymers, butyl acrylate and
   styrene and acrylic acid copolymers, and ethylacrylate-methacrylic acid copolymer;
                                                  15

   cellulose acetate phthalate; cellulose acetate succinates; hydroxyalkyl cellulose phthalates
   such as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate; hydroxyalkyl cellulose acetate
   succinates such as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose acetate succinate; vinyl acetate
   phthalates; vinyl acetate succinate; cellulose acetate trimelliate; polyvinyl derivatives such
 5 as polyvinyl acetate phthalate, polyvinyl alcohol phthalate, polyvinyl butylate phthalate,
   and polyvinyl acetoacetal phthalate; zein; shellac; and mixtures thereof
            Suitable examples of pH-independent release-controlling agents are selected from
   the group comprising cellulosic polymers such as ethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose,
   hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethylmethyl cellulose,
10 hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, and carboxy methylcellulose; acrylic copolymers such as
   methacrylic acid copolymers, e.g., Eudragit* RS, Eudragit* RL, Eudragit* NE 30 D;
   cellulose acetate; polyethylene derivatives e.g., polyethylene glycol and polyethylene
   oxide; polyvinyl alcohol; polyvinyl acetate; gums e.g., guar gum, locust bean gum,
   tragacanth, carrageenan, alginic acid, gum acacia, gum arabic, gellan gum, and xanthan
15 gum; triglycerides; waxes, e.g., Compritol*, Lubritab*, and Gelucires*; lipids; fatty acids
   or their salts/derivatives; a mixture of polyvinyl acetate and polyvinyl pyrrolidone, e.g.,
   Kollidon* SR; and mixtures thereof
            Suitable glidants are selected from the group comprising silica, calcium silicate,
   magnesium silicate, colloidal silicon dioxide, cornstarch, talc, stearic acid, magnesium
20 stearate, calcium stearate, sodium stearyl fumarate, hydrogenated vegetable oil, and
   mixtures thereof
            Suitable sweeteners are selected from the group comprising saccharine or its salts
   such as sodium, potassium, or calcium, cyclamate or its salt, aspartame, alitame,
   acesulfame or its salt, stevioside, glycyrrhizin or its derivatives, sucralose, and mixtures
25 thereof
            Suitable anti-caking agents are selected from the group comprising colloidal
   silicon dioxide, tribasic calcium phosphate, powdered cellulose, magnesium trisilicate,
   starch, and mixtures thereof
            Suitable wetting agents are selected from the group comprising anionic, cationic,
30 nonionic, or zwitterionic surfactants, or combinations thereof Suitable examples of
   wetting agents are sodium lauryl sulphate; cetrimide; polyethylene glycols;
   polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block copolymers such as poloxamers; polyglycerin
                                                  16

   fatty acid esters such as decaglyceryl monolaurate and decaglyceryl monomyristate;
   sorbitan fatty acid esters such as sorbitan monostearate; polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty
   acid esters such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate; polyethylene glycol fatty acid
   esters such as polyoxyethylene monostearate; polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers such as
 5 polyoxyethylene lauryl ether; polyoxyethylene castor oil; and mixtures thereof
            Suitable preservatives are selected from the group comprising parabens such as
   methyl paraben and propyl paraben; sodium benzoate; and mixtures thereof
            Suitable buffering agents are selected from the group comprising citric acid,
   sodium citrate, sodium phosphate, potassium citrate, acetate buffer, and mixtures thereof.
10          Suitable flavoring agents are selected from the group consisting of peppermint,
   grapefruit, orange, lime, lemon, mandarin, pineapple, strawberry, raspberry, mango,
   passion fruit, kiwi, apple, pear, peach, apricot, cherry, grape, banana, cranberry, blueberry,
   black currant, red currant, gooseberry, lingon berries, cumin, thyme, basil, camille,
   valerian, fennel, parsley, chamomile, tarragon, lavender, dill, bargamot, salvia, aloe vera
15 balsam, spearmint, eucalyptus, and combinations thereof.
            Suitable anti-oxidants are selected from the group comprising butylated
   hydroxytoluene (BHT), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), sodium metabisulfite, ascorbic
   acid, propyl gallate, thiourea, tocopherols, beta-carotene, and mixtures thereof.
            Suitable chelating agents are selected from the group comprising ethylenediamine
20 tetraacetic acid or derivatives/salts thereof, e.g., disodium edetate; dihydroxyethyl glycine;
   glucamine; acids, e.g., citric acid, tartaric acid, gluconic acid, and phosphoric acid; and
   mixtures thereof
            The ion-exchange resins such as cation- and anion-exchange matrices are well
   known in the art. Few exemplary resin particles that can be used according to the
25 invention include, but are not limited to, Dowex* resins and others made by Dow
   Chemical; Amberlite*, Amberlyst* and other resins made by Rohm and Haas; Indion*
   resins made by Ion Exchange, Ltd. (India), Diaion* resins by Mitsubishi; Type AG@ and
   other resins by BioRad; Sephadex* and Sepharose* made by Amersham; resins by
   Lewatit, sold by Fluka; Toyopearl* resins by Toyo Soda; IONAC* and Whatman* resins
30 sold by VWR; and BakerBond* resins sold by J T Baker; resins having polymer
   backbones comprising styrene-divinyl benzene copolymers and having pendant
                                                    17

   ammonium or tetraalkyl ammonium functional groups, available from Rohm and Haas,
   Philadelphia, and sold under the tradename DUOLITETM AP 143.
            The cores of the present invention comprising the active ingredient can be prepared
   by any method known in the art, e.g., extrusion-spheronoization, wet granulation, dry
 5 granulation, hot-melt extrusion granulation, spray drying, and spray congealing.
   Alternatively, the active ingredient can be layered onto an inert particle to form the core.
   Further, the active ingredient particles can be directly coated with a release-controlling
   agent to form the microparticles or microcapsules. The microparticles or microcapsules
   can be prepared by a process of homogenization, solvent evaporation, coacervation phase
10 separation, spray drying, spray congealing, polymer precipitation, or supercritical fluid
   extraction. The ion-exchange resins comprise loading a plurality of the resin particles with
   the active ingredient to form drug-resin cores. Methods of loading active ingredients onto
   the resin particles are generally known in the art.
            The first chamber includes a container which is in the form of a glass or a plastic or
15 a metallic bottle. The reservoir of the second chamber can be made of a plastic, a metal or
   a glass; particularly the reservoir is a plastic bottle. The reservoir of the second chamber
   may additionally have a slippery coating or mold polishing. This coating or polishing will
   help to improve the flow characteristics of the powder for suspension composition during
   activation.
20          In the dual-chamber pack suitable for incorporating powder for suspension in a
   volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about 30 cc, the plunger may be inversely fitted into
   the plug which is subsequently screwed or snuggly fitted on to the opening of the
   container of the first chamber, in particularly it is screwed fitted. The overcap may be
   fitted screwed or snuggly into the plug, in particularly snuggly fitted. The plunger can be
25 open at both the ends or closed at one end and open at the other end. In particular, it is
   open at both the ends. The plunger opened at both the ends may further increase the
   capacity as well as machine ability. Further, the overcap may be prefitted with the plunger.
   The overcap may have a tamper evident band which is removed first to start the activation.
            In the dual-chamber pack suitable for incorporating for powder for suspension in a
30 volume ranging from about 30 cc to about 500 cc, the plunger is opened at both the ends.
   The biphasic connector comprises of cross bridges to give the strength. The bridges can be
   tapered at the edges to avoid any powder deposit. Further, the reservoir can have serrations
                                                    18

   to have better grip for the end-users. The biphasic connector has a tamper-evident band on
   the side connected to the container of the first chamber which is removed first to start the
   activation process. The biphasic connector is having grooves on other side for locking
   with the reservoir. On this side, there would be instructions for the end-users regarding
 5 direction of the rotation such as clockwise rotation for activating the pack.
            The term "tamper-evident band," as used herein, refers to a band attached co
   axially to the overcap or to the biphasic connector. The band breaks easily on pulling
   apart. The tamper-evident band ensures the overall integrity of the product until
   activation.
10          The plunger of the instant invention can comprise of one or more sharp projections
   with an essential continuous blunt area. In particular, the plunger comprise of one sharp
   projection with an essential continuous blunt area. Alternatively, the plunger can have a
   single continuous projection with a remaining continuous blunt area which can be called
   as a flute shaped plunger. The plunger can further have one or more grooves. The body of
15 the plunger can be in the form of a cylinder or a funnel. The funnel shaped plunger
   provides additional capacity for storing high-dose active ingredients or active ingredients
   required for chronic administration.
            The plunger used in the instant invention ensures that the breakable polymeric
   membrane remains attached to the plug during activation. The plug and the plunger may
20 be made up of a material selected from the group comprising polyolefin, polyethylene,
   polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride, cyclic olefin polymer, cyclic olefin co-polymer,
   polyethylene terephthalate, polyethylene terephthalate - G, polypropylene, and
   polycarbonate. Particularly, the plug and the plunger are made up of polyethylene. More
   particularly, the plug and the plunger are made up of linear low density polyethylene
25 (LLDPE).
            The compositions of the first and second chambers of the container are separated
   by a polymeric breakable membrane of the plug. The plunger used in the instant invention
   helps to rupture the breakable polymeric membrane upon the application of pressure by a
   screw-based mechanism. When pressure is applied on the overcap or reservoir, the
30 breakable polymeric membrane is ruptured by the plunger. The intact polymeric
   membrane remains attached to the circumference of the plug. In cases, where a bottle liner
   exists between the first and the second chambers, the plunger would break the bottle liner
                                                 19

   in the same manner as it ruptures the breakable polymeric membrane. The unabridged
   part of the bottle liner remains attached to the opening of the container. The plug with the
   breakable polymeric membrane prevents moisture permeation from the first chamber into
   the second chamber.
 5          The material used for making the plug may also include moisture barrier additives
   selected from the plastic additive group comprising of monomers and co-polymers that get
   activated through polymerization process to form an effective organic chemical. The
   moisture barrier additives used in the present invention may include any material that can
   prevent moisture permeation. The moisture barrier additives may be present in the form of
10 a layer inside the plug. The moisture barrier additives may be present in an amount of
   0.1% to 10% w/w, in particularly, 0.5% to 5% w/w based on total weight of the material
   used for making plug.
            The material used for making the reservoir may also include the moisture barrier
   additives. The barrier additives may be present in the form of a layer inside the reservoir.
15          The moisture permeation test was carried out on dual chamber packs with moisture
   barrier additives and without moisture barrier additives as per USP (37) - 671 Containers
   Performance Testing. The moisture barrier additives used in the present invention improve
   the moisture barrier properties by up to 50%. In particular, the moisture barrier additives
   improves the moisture barrier properties by up to 30%.
20          The use of moisture barrier additives thus help to prevent the moisture permeation
   from the suspension base into the powder for suspension during storage. The active
   ingredient, particularly moisture-sensitive active ingredient present in the powder for
   suspension thus remains stable during storage.
            The invention may be further illustrated by the following examples, which are for
25 illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the
   invention in any way.
                                                  20

   Example 1
            Ingredients                                      Quantity (mg/mL)
            Core
            Metformin hydrochloride                                  80.00
            Microcrystalline cellulose spheres                      56.00
            Hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose                            4.00
            Purified water                                            g.s.
            Extended Release Coating
            Ethyl cellulose                                         68.31
            Dibutyl sebacate                                          1.69
            Acetone                                                   g.s.
            Purified water                                            g.s.
            Total Weight of Extended Release
                                                                 210.00 mg
            Beads
            Suspension base
            Metformin hydrochloride                                 20.00
            Xylitol                                                 450.00
            Microcrystalline cellulose - sodium
            carboxymethyl cellulose (Avicel* CL-                    20.00
            611)
            Xanthan gum                                               1.50
            Methyl paraben                                            1.80
            Propyl paraben                                           0.20
             Strawberry flavor                                       2.00
             Sucralose                                               0.50
            Colloidal silicon dioxide                                3.50
            Purified water                                       472.00 mg
   Procedure:
   1. Metformin hydrochloride and hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose were dissolved in
      purified water.
 5 2. Microcrystalline cellulose spheres were coated with the solution of step 1.
   3. Ethyl cellulose and dibutyl sebacate were dispersed in a mixture of acetone and
      purified water.
   4. The beads of step 2 were coated with the coating dispersion of step 3 and dried to form
      a powder for suspension.
10 5. Purified water was heated to dissolve methyl paraben and propyl paraben.
   6. Metformin hydrochloride, xylitol, microcrystalline cellulose - sodium carboxymethyl
      cellulose, xanthan gum, strawberry flavor, sucralose, and colloidal silicon dioxide
      were mixed in the solution of step 5 to form a suspension base.
                                               21

   7. The powder for suspension of step 4 was prefilled in a plunger of a second chamber of
        a dual-chamber pack.
   8.   The suspension base of step 6 was prefilled in a container of a first chamber of a dual
        chamber pack.
 5 9. The two chambers were assembled and the pack was activated to form the extended
        release suspension composition when required.
   In-Vitro Studies
            The extended release suspension composition prepared as per Example 1 (for a
10 dose equivalent to 750 mg of metformin hydrochloride) was stored at room temperature
   for 120 days. The in-vitro dissolution was determined at 0, 45, 90, and 120 days using
   USP type II apparatus at 100 rpm, in 1000 mL of phosphate buffer with pH 6.8 at 37 0 C.
   The results of the release studies are represented in Table 1.
   Table 1: Percentage (%) of the In-Vitro Metformin Release in USP Type II
15 Apparatus (Media: Phosphate Buffer, pH 6.8, 1000 mL, and 100 rpm)
       Number of              0                 45                  90               120
           Days
      Time (hours)             Percentage of Metformin Release
            0.5               20                21                  20                21
             1                27                25                  27                25
             2                55                 52                 55                52
             3                74                 72                 74                72
             4                83                 81                 83                81
             5                85                 86                 85                86
             6                87                 90                 87                90
             8                91                 94                 91                94
            10                93                 96                 93                96
            12                94                 97                 94                97
            From the above in-vitro release data, it is evident that the extended release
   suspension composition prepared according to Example 1 provides the substantially
   similar in-vitro metformin release for 120 days.
            The dual-chamber pack was kept for 1 month at accelerated conditions i.e.,
      0
20 40 C/75% R.H. After 1 month, the pack was activated to form an extended release liquid
   composition which was kept for 120 days at room temperature. The in-vitro dissolution
   was determined at 0, 45, 90, and 120 days using USP type II apparatus at 100 rpm, in 1000
                                                  22

   mL of phosphate buffer with pH 6.8 at 37 0 C. The results of the release studies are
   represented in Table 2.
   Table 2: Percentage (%) of the In-Vitro Metformin Release in USP Type II
   Apparatus (Media: Phosphate Buffer, pH 6.8, 1000 mL, and 100 rpm)
       Number of              0                 45                90               120
         Days
      Time (hours)                      Percentage of Metformin Release
          0.5                21                 21                21                20
             1               27                 25                26                26
            2                56                 55                52                54
            3                74                 74                76                72
            4                83                 81                82                81
            10               96                 96                97                94
 5          The dual-chamber pack was kept for 3 months at accelerated conditions i.e.,
   40'C/75% R.H. After 3 months, the pack was activated to form an extended release liquid
   composition which was kept for 45 days at room temperature. The in-vitro dissolution
   was determined at 0 and 45 days using USP type II apparatus at 100 rpm, in 1000 mL of
   phosphate buffer with pH 6.8 at 37 0 C. The results of the release studies are represented in
10 Table 3.
   Table 3: Percentage (%) of the In-Vitro Metformin Release in USP Type II
   Apparatus (Media: Phosphate Buffer, pH 6.8, 1000 mL, and 100 rpm)
                   Number of Days                      0                   45
                     Time (hours)             Percentage of Metformin Release
                          0.5                         21                   21
                           1                          26                   25
                           2                          55                   53
                           3                          75                   72
                           4                          80                   80
                           10                         95                   92
               From the above data, it is clear that the powder for suspension and suspension
   base stored in the dual-chamber pack of the instant invention at accelerated conditions for
15  1 month and 3 months, upon activation of the pack forms extended release suspension
   compositions which when stored for 120 days and 45 days respectively at room
   temperature provides substantially similar in-vitro metformin release..
                                                   23

   Stability Data
           The related substances for the extended release suspension composition prepared
   as per Example 1 were determined at 0 day and after storage at room temperature for 45
   and 120 days. The powder for suspension and suspension base was stored in the dual
 5 chamber pack for one month and for three months at 40'C/75 % R.H. After one month or
   three months, the pack was activated to form extended release suspension compositions
   and then related substances were determined at 0 day and after storage at room
   temperature for 45 days and 120 days.
           The assay of metformin was determined by HPLC method. The results are shown
10 in Table 4.
   Table 4: Stability Data for Metformin
          Related                   Initial             1 month (40'C/75%           3 month
        Substances                                              R.H)              (40'C/75%
          (%w/w)                                                                      R.H)
                            0 day    45     120 days   0 day      45      120   0 day      45
                                    days                        days     days            days
     Cyanoguainidine        BLQ    0.001    0.00072    0.001    0.001   0.001   0.001    0.001
     Highest unknown        0.05    0.05      0.04      0.05     0.04    0.04    0.05     0.04
          impurity
      Total impurities      0.05    0.05      0.04      0.05     0.04    0.04    0.09     0.04
           *BLQ: Below limit of Quantification
           It is evident from the above data that the extended release suspension composition
   prepared as per Example 1 remains stable even after storing at accelerated conditions for 3
15 months using the dual-chamber pack.
                                                 24

   Example 2
          Ingredients                                            Quantity (mg/mL)
          Core
          Metformin hydrochloride                                        80.00
          Microcrystalline cellulose spheres                             56.00
          Hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose                                   4.00
          Purified water                                                  q.s.
          Extended Release Coating
          Ethyl cellulose                                                61.48
          Dibutyl sebacate                                                1.52
          Acetone                                                         g.s.
          Purified water                                                  g.s.
          Total Weight of Extended Release Beads                      203.00 mg
          Metformin hydrochloride                                        20.00
          Xylitol                                                       450.00
          Microcrystalline cellulose - sodium
                                                                         20.00
          carboxymethyl cellulose (Avicel* CL-61 1)
          Xanthan gum                                                     1.50
          Strawberry flavor                                               2.00
          Sucralose                                                       0.50
          Colloidal silicon dioxide                                       3.50
          Vehicle
          Purified water                                             q.s. to 1 mL
   Procedure:
    1. Metformin hydrochloride and hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose were dissolved in
   purified water.
 5 2. Microcrystalline cellulose spheres were coated with the solution of step 1.
   3.  Ethyl cellulose and dibutyl sebacate were dispersed in a mixture of acetone and
   purified water.
   4. The beads of step 2 were coated with the coating dispersion of step 3.
   5.  Metformin hydrochloride, xylitol, microcrystalline cellulose - sodium carboxymethyl
10 cellulose, xanthan gum, strawberry flavor, sucralose, and colloidal silicon dioxide were
   mixed.
   6. The coated beads of step 4 were mixed with the mixture of step 5 to form a powder for
   suspension.
           The powder for suspension may be stored in plunger or reservoir (depending upon
15 the volume) of the second chamber and the vehicle (purified water) may be stored in the
                                               25

   container of the first chamber. The two chambers after assembling may be activated to
   form the extended release suspension composition when required.
   In-Vitro Studies
           The extended release suspension composition prepared as per Example 2 was
 5 stored at room temperature for 30 days. The in-vitro dissolution was determined at 0 and
   30 days using USP type II apparatus at 100 rpm, in 1000 mL of phosphate buffer with pH
   6.8 at 370 C. The results of the release studies are represented in Table 5.
   Table 5: Percentage (%) of the In-Vitro Metformin Release in USP Type II
   Apparatus (Media: Phosphate Buffer, pH 6.8, 1000 mL, and 100 rpm)
                    Number of Days                  0                    30
                     Time (hours)           Percentage of Metformin Release
                            0.5                    20                    22
                             1                     27                    28
                             2                     59                    64
                             3                     77                    80
                             4                     84                    89
                             5                     88                    93
                             6                     92                    95
                             8                     95                    99
                            10                     97                   101
                            12                     98                   103
10         From the above in-vitro release data, it is evident that the extended release
   suspension composition prepared according to Example 2 provides the substantially
   similar in-vitro metformin release for 30 days.
   Osmolality Measurement of the Extended Release Suspension
15         The metformin extended release powder prepared according to the Example 2 (till
   step 6) was reconstituted with required amount of purified water. This suspension was
   shaken manually for at least 20 minutes. This suspension was then filtered and diluted
   with purified water and the osmolality was measured using Osmomat 030-D.
           The osmolality of the suspension base was found to be 4.112 osmol/kg of the
20 suspension base on day 0.
           The osmolality of the suspension base was found to be 4.328 osmol/kg of the
   suspension base on day 7.
                                                  26

            It is evident from the above data that the osmolality of the suspension base of the
   extended release suspension composition as per Example 2 remains equivalent for seven
   days.
   Osmolality Measurement of the External Phase
 5          The metformin hydrochloride, xylitol, microcrystalline cellulose - sodium
   carboxymethyl cellulose, xanthan gum, strawberry flavor, sucralose, and colloidal silicon
   dioxide were mixed as per step 5 of Example 2. This mixture was reconstituted with
   required amount of purified water. This suspension was then filtered and diluted with
   purified water, and the osmolality was measured using Osmomat 030-D.
10          The osmolality of the suspension base i.e., external phase was found to be 4.204
   osmol/kg of the suspension base.
   Osmolality Measurement of the Internal Phase
            Various solutions having various concentrations of osmogent (sodium chloride)
   were prepared as per Examples 2A-2F. The osmolalities of these solutions were measured
15 using Osmomat 030-D.
     Ingredient            Example     Example      Example     Example     Example     Example
                               2A          2B           2C         2D           2E          2F
     Sodium Chloride         30.00       60.00        120.00     180.00       240.00     300.00
     (mg)
     Purified water         q.s. to 1   q.s. to 1    q.s. to 1   q.s. to     q.s. to 1   q.s. to 1
                               mL         mL           mL        7.5 mL         mL         mL
     Osmolality              0.910       1.787       3.574*      5.361*       7.148*     8.935*
     (osmol/kg)
   *  Extrapolated using values of dilute solutions
            The coated beads of step 4 were dispersed in different solutions as per Examples
   2A-2F. These solutions were kept for seven days at room temperature. After seven days,
   each solution was analyzed by HPLC for metformin content. The results are represented
20 in following Table 5.
                                                  27

  Table 5: Effect of Osmolality on Metformin Leaching
     Example        Osmolality (osmol/kg) of the solution         Metformin Content (%)
        2A                            0.910                                67.3
        2B                            1.787                                30.3
        2C                           3.574*                                 2.9
        2D                           5.361*                                 1.8
        2E                           7.148*                                 1.7
         2F                          8.935*                                 1.0
          * Extrapolated using values of dilute solutions
          From the above data, it is evident that the leaching of metformin from the coated
  beads into the solution was decreasing as the osmolality of the solution was increasing
5 from Examples 2A-2F. The leaching is found to be significantly reduced from Example
  2C onwards. The osmolality of Example 2C i.e., 3.574 is considered as osmolality of the
  internal phase.
  Osmolality Ratio 1.176
                                                28

  We claim:
1 1.     A dual-chamber pack comprising;
2         (a)    a first chamber prefilled with a suspension base; and
3         (b)     a second chamber prefilled with a powder for suspension comprising an
4                active ingredient;
5 wherein upon activation of the dual-chamber pack, the contents of both the chambers are
6 mixed to form an extended release suspension composition which is characterized by
7 having no substantial change in the in-vitro dissolution release profile of the active
8 ingredient upon storage for at least seven days.
1 2.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 1, wherein the first chamber comprises of a
2 container and the second chamber comprises of an overcap, a plunger, and a plug with a
3 breakable polymeric membrane.
1 3.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 2, wherein the plunger is prefilled with the
2 powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about 30 cc.
1 4.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 1, wherein the first chamber comprises of a
2 container and the second chamber comprises of a reservoir, a biphasic connector, a
3 plunger, and a plug with a breakable polymeric membrane.
1 5.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 4, wherein the reservoir is prefilled with the
2 powder for suspension in a volume greater than about 30 cc.
1 6.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 5, wherein the reservoir is prefilled with the
2 powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 30 cc to about 500 cc.
1 7.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 4, wherein the biphasic connector of the second
2 chamber connects the reservoir of the second chamber to the container of the first
3 chamber.
1 8.      The dual-chamber pack of claims 2 or 4, wherein the plunger ensures the breakable
2 polymeric membrane remains attached to the plug during activation.
1 9.      The dual-chamber pack of claims 2 or 4, wherein the plunger comprise of one or
2 more sharp projections with an essential continuous blunt area.
1 10.     The dual-chamber pack of claims 2 or 4, wherein the plug includes one or more
2 moisture barrier additives.
                                               29

  1 11.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 1, wherein the extended release suspension
 2  composition is a stable composition.
  1 12.      A dual-chamber pack comprising:
 2           (a)    a first chamber in the form of a container (7) prefilled with a suspension
 3                  base and provided with an opening (6) at an upper end;
 4           (b)    a second chamber comprising:
 5                  (i)      a overcap (1) optionally having a tamper evident band (2) fitted into
 6                           a plunger (3);
 7                  (ii)     the plunger (3) adapted to fit into a plug (4), having a top flat
 8                           surface, prefilled with a powder for suspension;
 9                  (iii)     the plug (4), with a breakable polymeric membrane (5), adapted to
10                           fit into the opening (6) from a lower end and into the
11                           overcap (1) from the upper end; and
12  wherein the overcap (1) has a means to exert pressure onto the plunger (3) so as to
13  partially rupture the breakable polymeric membrane (5) of the plug and deliver the powder
14  for suspension into the suspension base of the container (7); and wherein the powder for
15  suspension is mixed with the suspension base to form an extended release suspension
16  composition which is characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro
17  dissolution release profile for at least seven days upon storage.
  1 13.      The dual-chamber pack of claim 12, wherein the plunger is prefilled with the
 2  powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 0.5 cc to about 30 cc.
  1 14.      A dual-chamber pack comprising:
 2           (a)    a first chamber in the form of a container (8) prefilled with a suspension
 3                  base provided with an opening (7) at an upper end;
 4           (b)    a second chamber comprising:
 5                  (i)      a reservoir (1) adapted to fit into a plunger (2) prefilled with a
 6                           powder for suspension; the plunger (2) is further adapted to fit into
 7                           a plug (3) having a top flat surface,
 8                  (ii)     the plug (3), with a breakable polymeric membrane (4), adapted to
 9                           fit into the biphasic connector (5) optionally having a tamper
                                                     30

10                            evident band (6) which is further connected from the lower end to
11                            the opening (7) of the container (8);
12  wherein the reservoir (1) at the top of the second chamber has a means to exert pressure
13  onto the plunger (2) so as to partially rupture the breakable polymeric membrane (4) of the
14  plug and deliver the powder for suspension into the suspension base of the container (8);
15  the second chamber is replaced with a cap (9), and wherein the powder for suspension is
16  mixed with the suspension base to form an extended release suspension composition
17  which is characterized by having no substantial change in the in-vitro dissolution release
18  profile for at least seven days upon storage.
  1  15.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 14, wherein the reservoir is prefilled with the
 2  powder for suspension in a volume greater than about 30 cc.
  1  16.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 15, wherein the reservoir is prefilled with the
 2  powder for suspension in a volume ranging from about 30 cc to about 500 cc.
  1  17.     The dual-chamber pack of claims 1, 12, or 14, wherein the powder for suspension
 2  comprise of extended release coated cores of the active ingredient, optionally admixed
 3  with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
  1  18.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 17, wherein the extended release coated cores
 2  comprise a core comprising the active ingredient and a coating layer over said core
 3  comprising one or more release-controlling agents.
  1  19.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 1, wherein the active ingredient is selected from
 2  the group consisting of valacyclovir, metformin, azithromycin, cloxacillin, clarithromycin,
 3  erythromycin, amoxicillin alone or in combination with clavulanic acid, cefdinir,
 4  cefuroxime axetil, cefixime, cefadroxil, cefpodoxime, cefaclor, cefprozil, fluconazole,
 5  voniconazole, acarbose, miglitol, voglibose, repaglinide, nateglinide, glibenclamide,
 6  glimepride, glipizide, gliclazide, chloropropamide, tolbutamide, phenformin, alogliptin,
 7  sitagliptin, linagliptin, saxagliptin, rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, troglitazone, faraglitazar,
 8  englitazone, darglitazone, isaglitazone, zorglitazone, liraglutide, muraglitazar, peliglitazar,
 9  tesaglitazar, canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, remogliflozin, sergliflozin, verapamil, albuterol,
10  salmeterol, acebutolol, sotalol, penicillamine, norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin,
11  levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, trovafloxacin, gatifloxacin, tetracycline, demeclocycline
12  hydrochloride, losartan, irbesartan, eprosartan, valsartan, diltiazem, isosorbide
13  mononitrate, ranolazine, propafenone, hydroxyurea, hydrocodone, delavirdine, pentosan
                                                     31

14  polysulfate, abacavir, amantadine, acyclovir, ganciclovir, valganciclovir, saquinavir,
15  indinavir, nelfinavir, lamivudine, didanosine, zidovudine, nabumetone, celecoxib,
16  mefenamic acid, naproxen, propoxyphene, cimetidine, ranitidine, albendazole,
17  mebendazole, thiobendazole, pyrazinamide, praziquantel, chlorpromazine, sumatriptan,
18  bupropion, aminobenzoate, pyridostigmine bromide, potassium chloride, niacin, tocainide,
19  quetiapine, fexofenadine, sertraline, chlorpheniramine, rifampin, methenamine,
20  nefazodone, modafinil, metaxalone, morphine, sevelamer, lithium carbonate, flecainide
21  acetate, simethicone, methyldopa, chlorthiazide, metyrosine, procainamide, entacapone,
22  metoprolol, propanolol hydrochloride, chlorzoxazone, tolmetin, tramadol, bepridil,
23  phenytoin, gabapentin, terbinafine, atorvastatin, doxepine, rifabutin, mesalamine,
24  etidronate, nitrofurantoin, choline magnesium trisalicylate, theophylline, nizatidine,
25  methocarbamol, mycophenolate mofetil, tolcapone, ticlopidine, capecitabine, orlistat,
26  colsevelam, meperidine, hydroxychloroquine, guaifenesin, guanfacine, amiodarone,
27  quinidine, atomoxetine, felbamate, pseudoephedrine, carisoprodol, venlafaxine, etodolac,
28  chondroitin, lansoprazole, pantoprazole, esomeprazole, dexlansoprazole,
29  dexmethylphenidate, methylphenidate, sodium oxybate, valproic acid or its salts,
30  divalproex, topiramate, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, isotretinoin, oseltamivir,
31  cholestyramine, nystatin, and a combination of artemether and lumefantrine.
  1 20.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 18, wherein the release-controlling agents is
 2  selected from the group consisting of a pH-dependent release-controlling agent, a pH
 3  independent release-controlling agent, or mixtures thereof.
  1 21.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 20, wherein the pH-dependent release-controlling
 2  agent is selected form the group consisting of acrylic copolymers such as methacrylic acid
 3  and methyl methacrylate copolymers, e.g., Eudragit* L 100 and Eudragit* S 100,
 4  methacrylic acid and ethyl acrylate copolymers, e.g., Eudragit* L 100-55 and Eudragit* L
 5  30 D-55, dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and butyl methacrylate and methyl
 6  methacrylate copolymers e.g., Eudragit* E 100, Eudragit* E PO, methyl acrylate and
 7  methacrylic acid and octyl acrylate copolymers, styrene and acrylic acid copolymers, butyl
 8  acrylate and styrene and acrylic acid copolymers, and ethylacrylate-methacrylic acid
 9  copolymer; cellulose acetate phthalate; cellulose acetate succinates; hydroxyalkyl
10  cellulose phthalates such as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate; hydroxyalkyl
11  cellulose acetate succinates such as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose acetate succinate;
12  vinyl acetate phthalates; vinyl acetate succinate; cellulose acetate trimelliate; polyvinyl
                                                  32

13 derivatives such as polyvinyl acetate phthalate, polyvinyl alcohol phthalate, polyvinyl
14 butylate phthalate, and polyvinyl acetoacetal phthalate; zein; shellac; and mixtures thereof
 1 22.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 20, wherein the pH-independent release
 2 controlling agent is selected form the group consisting of cellulosic polymers such as ethyl
 3 cellulose, methyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose,
 4 hydroxyethylmethyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, and carboxy
 5 methylcellulose; acrylic copolymers such as methacrylic acid copolymers, e.g., Eudragit*
 6 RS, Eudragit* RL, Eudragit* NE 30 D; cellulose acetate; polyethylene derivatives e.g.,
 7 polyethylene glycol and polyethylene oxide; polyvinyl alcohol; polyvinyl acetate; gums
 8 e.g., guar gum, locust bean gum, tragacanth, carrageenan, alginic acid, gum acacia, gum
 9 arabic, gellan gum, and xanthan gum; triglycerides; waxes, e.g., Compritol*, Lubritab*,
10 and Gelucires*; lipids; fatty acids or their salts/derivatives; a mixture of polyvinyl acetate
11 and polyvinyl pyrrolidone, e.g., Kollidon* SR; and mixtures thereof
 1 23.     The dual-chamber pack of claims 1, 12, or 14, wherein the suspension base
 2 comprises one or more suspending agents, one or more osmogents, and a pharmaceutically
 3 acceptable vehicle.
 1 24.     The dual-chamber pack of claim 17, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable
 2 excipients are selected from the group consisting of glidants, sweeteners, suspending
 3 agents, anti-caking agents, wetting agents, preservatives, buffering agents, flavoring
 4 agents, anti-oxidants, chelating agents, and combinations thereof
                                                  33

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
