                                    ABSTRACT
                          A VIEW DEVICE SUPPORT
We are shown in figure 1, the back view of a view device support in accordance with
the present invention wherein the view device support 1, has a view device support
holder 2, where a view device can be housed, a landscape view angle support bracket 3,
where a view angle support frame 5 can be interchanged and attached, a portrait view
angle support bracket 4, where a view angle support frame 5 can be attached, a view
device support bracket 6, where a support string 7 can be attached to support the view
device support 1, a support string buckle 8 is used to control the length of the support
string 7, a view device can be a smart phone, a computer lab top, a computer tablet, an
electronic book, a view monitor, a VDO player, a DVD players, a display device, a
display screen, a book, or any similar device.

        1/6
     Figl
  61
7
8           3
            5

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There are only
    19 pages of
    Description.

                                                 1
                                       A View Device Support
   Field of the Invention
 5 This invention relates to a view device support, in particular it is a hand free support for
   viewing a view device, where by user does not need to use any hand or palm to hold and to
   support a view device, or does the user need to use a table or any solid standing furniture or
   structure, or a wall or ceiling to hang and to support a view device to be able to still read,
   or to view a view device, a view device can be a smart phone, a computer lab top, a
 0 computer tablet, an electronics book, a viewing monitor, a VDO player, a DVD player, a
   display device, a display screen, a book, or any similar device.
   Background of the Invention
 5 View device such as smart phone, computer tablet, computer lab top, or electronic book
   when it is used, it is lay on a flat surface such as a table so that user can view it. There are
   many view device holders existing where a view device can be protected from being
   damaged or scratched, some device holder is designed where a holder can be folded so that
   it makes a stance for the view device to be rested at an inclined angle to provide at a
 0 comfortable and clear view angle for user. The only ways which a view device can be
   viewed by user are that a view device has to be rested on a flat surface, rested on a table,
   hung from a ceiling or from a wall, or is held on user's hand, in front of user's eyes with an
   inclined angle so that user can view it.
25 The viewing problem may arise when user is travelling in public transport such as on a bus,
   a train, or a car, where there are no solid structure such as a table, which can hold and
   support a view device, or a view device has to be hung in front of user so that user can
   view and use it, the possible and usual way is that user has to hold by hand a view device in
   front of user. However when user has to hold a view device in public transport such as on a
30 bus or train, or even private car, there are a few other problems arise, the problems usually
   are that in a crowded bus or train, it is difficult to hold a view device to read because of
   limited space available in front of user, and when user has to hold and to view a view
   device for a long period of time, and repetitively over a period of time, user may
   experience soreness and tiredness hand, arm and elbow, and eventually user will even

                                                 2
5 develop the repetitive injuries in the hand, palm, arm and elbow, another problems arise
  when other people on train move in and out of train, other people may make contact, and
  knock a view device off user's hand.
  Similar problems may exist for user even when user is at home, whether sitting on a chair
0 without a table, or sitting in bed, there is no other means of supporting the view device
  except by user's own hand, thus user will eventually develop the sore arm or repetitive
  injuries.
  There are other means to only carry a view device by either putting it in user's bag, or by
5 hanging it over user's neck, or shoulder, but these can only provide ways and means of
  carrying a view device, however any of these ways cannot provide any ways or means
  where user can use, read, or view a view device without using some kind of supports such
  as user's own hand, a table or wall.
0  It is a goal of the present invention is to create a view device support that provide solutions
  and fix the above mentioned problems, that every user if not most users of the modem
  world have with daily using of a view devices, especially in public transports, in user's
  own car, or at home, and especially with a smart phone or a computer tablet. The present
  new invention can provide the supportive way, secured way, good way and convenient way
5 for viewing and using a view device, when in public transports or at home, at the same time
  can prevent repetitive injuries, soreness, or tiredness for users while using a view device.

                                                3
    Disclosure of the Invention
    The present invention is a view device support which can support a view device for
 0  viewing without using user's hand, or any solid structure such as a table to hold the view
    device, a view device support has a view device support holder, where a view device can
    be housed, a view device support bracket, where a support string can be attached to it so
    that user can hang the support string over user's neck, a portrait view angle support
    bracket, where a view angle support frame can be attached to provide a portrait view, a
 5  landscape view angle support bracket, where a view angle support frame can be attached to
    provide a landscape view, the view angle support frame provides a desired view angle and
    distance to user; the view device support bracket, the portrait and landscape view angle
    support brackets, and the view angle support frame are built at the back of the view device
    support holder, a view device can be a smart phone, a computer lab top, a computer tablet,
 0  an electronics book, a viewing monitor, a VDO player, a DVD player, a display device, a
    display screen, a book, or any similar device.
    The landscape view angle support bracket, the portrait view angle support bracket, and the
    view device support bracket, are built at the back of the view device support holder, in
 5  another preferred embodiment, these brackets can be constructed externally as the external
    attachment support brackets, in place of the built in brackets; the external attachment
    support brackets are built on one side of the supporting surfaces where the brackets can be
    fitted on to, while on other side of the supporting surface are made of adhesive material
    where they can be attached to the surface of a view device support holder, on and at the
s0  same positions of the said brackets.
   In another preferred embodiment, the external attachment supporting brackets as described
   above, where the adhesive material surface can be replaced with fasteners such as rivets,
   eyelets, bolts or screws to provide the attachment means of these brackets onto the view
B5 device support holder, holes on the view device support holder can be formed at positions
   where the rivets, eyelets, screws or bolts are used.
   In another preferred embodiment, the external attachment supporting brackets described
   above can be directly attached with adhesive to the back of a view device, without having to
90 use a view device holder.

                                               4
   In another preferred embodiment, the external attachment supporting brackets as described
   above, with either adhesives or fasteners, can be directly attached to a view device support
   holder of the view device support, or to any view device holder for which a view device can
   be housed.
 5
    Preferably, the support string can be hang over user's shoulder, where a support string
    buckle can be adjusted the length to user's preference, and to user's desired view distance
    and angle.
 0  In another preferred embodiment, the support string can be replaced with an external
    attachment clamp for which it can be clamped to user's upper or lower arm, bag, or shirt,
    to provide the support to a view device similar to that of a support string.
    Preferably, the view device support bracket is built at the back and at 45 degrees angle on
 5  the near top left or right hand side edges of the view device support, to prevent the string
    from being tangled up when the support string is rotated 90 degrees clockwise, or
    anticlockwise to provide a portrait or landscape oriented view.
    In another preferred embodiment, the view device support bracket is replaced with four
 0  support rings, where two rings being built at the upper edges on the left and right hand side
    of the holder, so that when a support string is attached here, it can provide a portrait view,
    and the other two rings are built at the middle top edge, and middle bottom edge of the
    view device support holder, so that when the view device support is rotated 90 degrees,
    and the support string is set up and attached to these two rings, to provide a landscape
15  view.
    In another preferred embodiment, the view device support bracket can be replaced with
    two view device support brackets, where one bracket is built at the upper and one at lower
    middle part at the back of the view device holder, a portrait view, or landscape view, can
20  be interchanged by changing the support string setting up accordingly.
    In another preferred embodiment, the external attachment view device support bracket can
    be replaced with two external attachment support brackets, where one bracket is attached
    or fastened at the upper and one at lower middle part at the back of the view device holder,

                                              5
~5 a portrait view, or landscape view, can be interchanged by changing the support string
   setting up accordingly.
   In another preferred embodiment, the landscape and portrait view angle support brackets
   can be replaced with the double landscape and the double portrait view angle support
   brackets, the view angle support frame is also replaced with the double view angle support
 0 frames, which can provide the same functions to support for the desired view angle and
   distance.
   In another preferred embodiment, the view angle support brackets are replaced with sliding
   grooves, where the view angle support frames can be sliding in and out along the grooves,
 5 on the same surface of the back of the view device support holder surface.
   In another preferred embodiment, the portrait and landscape view angle support brackets
   are replaced with one rotational hinge, where the portrait bracket is, the view angle support
   frame can be pivoting at this hinge, on the same surface of the back of the view device
 0 support holder surface, when it is rotated 90 degrees clockwise toward the bottom edge of
   the view device support holder, it can support a portrait view, when it is rotated 90 degrees
   anticlockwise toward the right hand side edge of the view device support holder, it can
   support a landscape view.
 5 In another preferred embodiment, a view device support has a fixed size view device
   support holder, which has the fixed sizes edges, where only a specific size view device can
   be housed.
   In another preferred embodiment, a view device support has an adjustable size holder,
50 where the support edges constructed to the extendable arms, where different sizes of view
   devices can be housed.
   Preferably, when the view angle support frame is folded in, a view device support can be
   can be worn over user's neck.
55
   Preferably, when the portrait view angle support frame is being unfolded from the portrait
   view angle support bracket, the view device support can be viewed in portrait view.

                                             6
  Preferably, when the landscape view angle support frame is being unfolded from the
0 landscape view angle support bracket, and when the view device support is rotated 90
  degrees, the view device support can be viewed in landscape view.
  Preferably, when a portrait view is desired, the set up the support string with the view
  device support bracket can be done with the support string being attached to the device
  support bracket, and the support string is looped over the back and upper edge of a view
5 device support holder, to provide a portrait view.
  Preferably, and similarly when a landscape view is desired, the set up the support string
  with the view device support bracket can be done with the support string being attached to
  the device support bracket or brackets, and the support string being looped over the back
0 and upper edge of a view device support holder, and the view device support is rotated 90
  degrees, to provide a landscape view.

                                               7
   Brief Description of the Drawings
 5 Figure 1 is a schematic diagram showing the back view of a view device support in
   accordance with the present invention.
   Figure 2 shows the front view of a view device support in accordance with the present
   invention as described in figure 1.
 0
   Figure 3 shows the back view of the view device support with the view angle support
   frame being folded in.
   Figure 4 shows the external attachment support brackets of the view device support
 5 bracket, the landscape view angle support bracket, and the portrait view angle support
   bracket.
   Figure 5 shows the back view of either a view device support, or the back of a view device
   support holder.
 0
   Figure 6 shows the external attachment support brackets, that is, the view device support
   bracket, the landscape view angle support bracket, and the portrait view angle support
   bracket, being attached to the back of a view device support, or attached to the back of a
   view device support holder.
95
   Figure 7 shows another preferred embodiment of a view device support, where the view
   device support holder are adjustable, here shows the back view of an adjustable view
   device support holder where the arms can be extended or contracted.
D0 Figure 8 shows how a view device support fitted to an adjustable view device support
   holder.

                                              8
   Figure 9 shows the back view of a view device support, fitted to an adjustable view device
   support holder, rotated 90 degrees, and the support string is set up for a landscape view.
 5
   Figure 10 show a support string with male-female joints, and string adjustable buckle.
   Figure 11 shows an example of how the view angle support holder, the support string, and
   landscape view angle support frame, are set up for a landscape view.
 0
   Figure 12 shows an example of how user can wear a view device support in landscape
   view.
   Figure 13 show an example of how user can wear a view device support, when the view
 5 angle support frame folded.
   Figure 14 shows an example of how user can wear a view device support in portrait view.
   Figure 15 shows another preferred embodiment of a view device support with the double
 0 external attachment view device support brackets, being set up for a portrait view.
   Figure 16 shows another preferred embodiment of a view device support with the double
   external attachment view device support brackets, being set up for a landscape view.
25 Figure 17 shows another preferred embodiment where the view device support bracket
   being replaced with four view device support rings, being set up for a portrait view.
   Figure 18 shows another preferred embodiment where the view device support bracket
   being replaced with four view device support rings, being set up for a landscape view.
30

                                                9
   Figure 19 show a view device support being set up for a portrait view where the view angle
   support frame is unfolded and attached to the portrait view angle support bracket.
   Figure 20 show a view device support being set up for a landscape view where the view
 5 angle support frame is unfolded and attached to the landscape view angle support bracket.
   Figure 21 shows another preferred embodiment where the two landscape and portrait view
   angle support brackets are replaced with a single rotational hinge, where the view angle
   support frame is rotated about the hinge in the same surface of the back of a device view
   support holder, the setup is for a portrait view, with the frame being rotated and unfolded.
 0
   Figure 22 shows another preferred embodiment where the two landscape and portrait view
   angle support brackets are replaced with a single rotational hinge, the view angle support
   frame is rotated about the hinge in the same surface of the back of a device view support
   holder, the setup is for a landscape view, with the frame being rotated and unfolded.
 5
   Figure 23 shows another preferred embodiment where the portrait view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double parallel portrait view angle support brackets, the double
   view angle support frames are used, and the setup is for a portrait view.
 0 Figure 24 shows another preferred embodiment where the landscape view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double brackets, the double view angle support frames are
   used, and the setup is for a landscape view.
   Figure 25 shows another preferred embodiment where the portrait view angle support
55 bracket is replaced with the double grooves, where the view angle support frame can be
   slid along the grooves, the setup is for a portrait view.
   Figure 26 shows another preferred embodiment where the landscape view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double grooves, where the view angle support frame can be
60 slid along the grooves, the setup is for a landscape view.

                                              10
  Figure 27 shows another preferred embodiment where the portrait view angle support
  bracket is replaced with the double rotational hinges, the double view angle support frames
  can be rotated about the axis, the setup is for a portrait view.
5 Figure 28 shows another preferred embodiment where the landscape view angle support
  bracket is replaced with the double rotational hinges, the double view angle support frames
  can be rotated about the axis, the setup is for a landscape view.
  Figure 29 shows another preferred embodiment, where the support string is replaced with
0 the external attachment clamp, and clamped onto user's arm to provide the support for the
  view device support.
  Figure 30 shows another preferred embodiment, where the support string is replaced with
  the external attachment clamp, and clamped onto user's shirt to provide the support for the
5 view device support.

                                              11
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
   We are shown in figure 1 a schematic diagram of view device support in accordance with
 0 the present invention wherein the view device support 1, has a view device support holder
   2, where a view device can be housed at the front of the view device holder; from the back
   of the view device holder, a landscape view angle support bracket 3, which is built toward
   the middle right hand side edge of the back of the view device support holder, where a
   landscape view angle support frame can be attached to, to provide a desired view angle and
 5 view distance for a landscape view, a portrait view angle support bracket 4, which is built
   toward the middle bottom edge of the back of the device support holder, where a portrait
   view angle support frame 5, can be attached to, to provide a desired view angle and view
   distance for a portrait view, a view device support bracket 6, which is built toward the top
   left edge at the back of the device support holder, where a support string 7 can be attached,
 0 the support string can be adjusted in length with a support string buckle 8, to provide a
   desired view distance and angle, a view device can be a smart phone, a computer lab top, a
   computer tablet, an electronics book, a viewing monitor, a VDO player, a DVD player, a
   display device, a display screen, a book, or any similar device, but not limited to these view
   devices.
 5
   Figure 2 shows the front view of a view device support as described in figure 1,with the
   front body holder 9, the surround support edges 10, to keep a view device secured, a view
   angle support frame 11 to provide a better view angle as desired, and a support string 12,
   for which user can wear it.
D0
   Figure 3 shows the back view of a view device support 13 as shown in figure 1, the view
   angle support 14 is folded in, and ready to be wear by user, as shown in example figure 13.
   Figure 4 shows the external attachment support brackets, where the external attachment
D5 view device support bracket 16       is constructed on a support surface 15, the external
   attachment landscape view angle support bracket 18 is constructed on support surface 17,
   and the external attachment portrait view angle support bracket 20 is constructed on the
   support surface 19, on the other side of the supporting surfaces for all these external
   attachments surfaces are made of adhesive material where they can be used to attached to

                                                12
 0 the surface of a view device support, or a view device support holder, to provide the same
   functions as the view device support described by figure 1 above.
   Figure 5 shows the back of a view device support 21, or a view device support holder 21.
   Figure 6 shows how the external attachment support brackets from figure 4, the external
 5 attachment view device support bracket, the external attachment landscape view angle
   support bracket, and external attachment the portrait view angle support bracket can be
   attached to either the back of a view device support 22, or a view device support holder 22,
   the support string 23 is set up for a portrait view.
 0 Figure 7 shows the adjustable view device support holder 24, with extendable horizontal
   arms 25, vertical extendable arms 26, and a view device support bracket 27, various sizes
   of view device can be housed with this adjustable view device support holder.
   Figure 8 shows an example of an adjustable view device support holder 29 fitted to a view
 5 device support 28, and the support string 30 is attached to the view device support bracket,
   this set up is for a portrait view.
   Figure 9 shows an example of an adjustable view device support holder 32 fitted to a view
   device support 31, the support string 33 is attached to the view device support bracket, the
 0 view device is rotated 90 degrees set up a landscape view.
   Figure 10 show a support string 34, support string adjustable buckle 35, with the male
   female joints 36, where they can be jointed as shown in 37, the support string can be used
   to wear on user's neck to support for a view device support.
35
   Figure 11 shows an example of how the landscape view angle support frame 40 is set up
   for a landscape view, where it is attached to the landscape view angle support bracket, the
   support string 39 is attached to the view device support bracket, and looped around the
   longer edge of the view device holder, and the view device support 38 is rotated 90 degrees
40 for a landscape view.

                                              13
   Figure 12 shows an example of how user can wear and view a view device support 42 in
   landscape view, with support string 41 worn over user's neck, and the landscape view
   angle support frame 43 is set up to support a landscape view.
 5
   Figure 13 show how user can wear a view device support 45, over user's neck with support
   string 44, the view angle support frame 46 is folded into the view device support.
   Figure 14 shows an example of how user can wear and view a view device support 48 in
 0 portrait view, with support string 47 worn over user's neck, and the portrait view angle
   support frame 49 is set up to support a portrait view.
   Figure 15 shows another preferred embodiment of a view device support with the double
   external attachment view device support brackets 51, which are attached to the back of
 5 either a view device support, or a view device support holder 50, the support string 52 is
   attached to the upper external attachment view device support bracket 51, to set up for a
   portrait view.
   Figure 16 shows another preferred embodiment of a view device support with the double
 0 external attachment view device support brackets 54, which are attached to the back of
   either a view device support, or a view device holder 53, the support string 55 is attached
   to both the external attachment view device support brackets 54, the view device support is
   rotated 90 degrees and to set up for a landscape view.
65 Figure 17 shows another preferred embodiment where the view device support bracket is
   replaced with four view device support rings 57, the two view device support rings are
   built toward upper part of view device support holder 56, on the left and right hand sides,
   while the other two rings are built toward the edges of middle top and bottom part of the
   view device support holder, the support string 58 is attached to the two left and right rings
70 to set up for a portrait view.

                                              14
   Similarly to that described in figure 17 above, figure 18 shows another preferred
   embodiment where a landscape view can be set up by rotating the view device support 50
   by 90 degrees, and attached the support string 61 to the other two support rings.
 5
   Figure 19 show the back view of a view device support 62 being set up for a portrait view
   where the view angle support frame 64 is unfolded and attached to the portrait view angle
   support bracket 63.
 0 Figure 20 show the back view of a view device support 65 being set up for a landscape
   view where the view angle support frame 67 is unfolded and attached to the landscape
   view angle support bracket 66.
   Figure 21 shows another preferred embodiment, where the portrait and landscape view
 5 angle support brackets where they are replaced with a single rotational hinge 69, the view
   angle support frame 70 can be rotated about the hinge, in the same surface of the back of a
   device view support holder 68, the setup is for a portrait view.
   Figure 22 shows another preferred embodiment, where the portrait and landscape view
 0 angle support brackets where they are replaced with a single rotational hinge 72, the view
   angle support frame is rotated about the hinge, in the same surface of the back of a device
   view support holder 71, the setup is for a landscape view.
   Figure 23 shows another preferred embodiment, where the portrait view angle support
95 bracket is replaced with the double portrait view angle support brackets 75, and the single
   view angle support frame is replaced with the double view angle support frames 76, and
   are attached to the brackets 75, which is set up for a portrait view.
   Figure 24 shows another preferred embodiment, where the landscape view angle support
D0 bracket is replaced with the double brackets 78, and the single view angle support frame is
   replaced with the double view angle support frames 79, and are attached to the bracket 78,
   which is set up for a landscape view.

                                               15
   Figure 25 shows another preferred embodiment, where the portrait view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double grooves 81, where the view angle support frame 82 can
 5 be slid along the grooves, the setup is for a portrait view, the frames being slid out for a
   portrait view.
   Figure 26 shows another preferred embodiment where the landscape view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double grooves 84, where the landscape view angle support
 0 frame 85 can be slid along the grooves, the frames being slid out for a landscape view.
   Figure 27 shows another preferred embodiment, where the portrait view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double rotational hinges 87, toward the back bottom part of the
   view device support holder 86, the double view angle support frames 88 can be rotated
 5 about the axis, the frames being rotated out for a portrait view.
   Figure 28 shows another preferred embodiment, where the landscape view angle support
   bracket is replaced with the double rotational hinges 90, toward the right hand side of the
   view device support holder 89, the double view angle support frames 91 can be rotated
 0 about the axis, the setup is for a landscape view, the frames being rotated out for a
   landscape view.
   Figure 29 shows another preferred embodiment, where the external attachment clamp 93 is
   used instead of a support string, and is attached to the view device support bracket 92, and
25 clamped onto user's arm to provide the support for the view device support.
   Figure 30 shows another preferred embodiment, where the external attachment clamp 96 is
   used instead of a support string, and is attached to the view device support bracket 95, and
   clamped to user's shirt to provide the support for the view device support.

                                              1 of4
Change note for Provisional Application to Standard Application for "A view device support".
 Reason for changes:
There is no changes in the design, new and update drawings to provide clearer and better
drawings, with a few updates and modifications of the drawing for clarification purposes.
                           Table A.   New figures versus Old Figures
 New figure       Old figure                                Changes note
      1                 1          Add8
      2                 2          Update
      3                19          Update
      4                8,9         Add Portrait & Landscape view support brackets
      5              10,12         Update
      6              11,13         Update
      7         3,4,5,6,7,15,16    Combine to 1, replace all
      8                17          Update
      9                18          Update
     10            23,24,25        combine to 1, replace all
     11              20,33         Similar
     12           (26,27,28)       Variation, Combine Landscape & Portrait view
     13                29          Update
     14            26,27,28        Update
     15                34          Similar with in-built brackets
     16                35          Similar with in-built brackets
     17                21          Update
     18                22          Update
     19                32          Update
     20                33          Update
     21                30          Update
     22                31          Update
     23               (19)         Variation
     24               (20)         Variation
     25               (19)         Variation
     26               (20)         Variation
     27               (19)         Variation
     28               (20)         Variation
     29               (14)         Variation
     30               (14)         Variation
               Old Figures         figures from Provision Application
   Note:       New Figure          figure from current Standard full application
               Variation           a variation for the drawing

                            2 of 4
           Table B.  Old figures versus New figures
Old figure          New figure                            Note
     1                   1
    2                    2
    3                    7
    4                    7
    5                    7
    6                    7
    7                    7
     8                   4
    9                    4
    10                   5
    11                   6
    12                   5
    13                   6
   14                   15              Replaced by 15
    15                   7
    16                   7
    17                   8
    18                   9
    19                   3
   20                   11
   21                   17
   22                   18
   23                   10
   24                   10
   25                   10
   26                14, (12)           (12) variation of
   27                14, (12)           (12) variation of
   28                14, (12)           (12) variation of
   29                   13
   30                   21
   31                   22
   32                   19
   33                 11,20
   34                   15
   35                   16
   36                   15              Replaced by 15
   37                   16              Replaced by 16

                                           3 of 4
Standard Patent Application note on Claims versus figures, for "A view device support"
The following table shows the claim versus drawing figure.
   Table 1.  Claim # versus Figure #
 Claims #              Figures #
     1                   1,2,10
     2                   4,5,6
     3                      4
     4                   4,5,6
     5                   4,5,6
     6                   29,30
     7                      2
     8                    7,8,9
     9                   23,24
    10                   27,28
    11                   25,26
    12                   21,22
    13           1,2,14,19,21,23,25,27
    14           11,12,20,22,24,26,28
    15                   17,18
    16                   15,16
    17                   15,16
    18                    3,13
    19                   1to l8
    20                   1to l9

                                           4 of 4
The following table shows the drawing figure versus claim.
   Table 2. Figure # versus Claim #
     Figures #              Claims #
          1                    1,13
          2                  1,7,13
          3                     18
          4                   2,3,4
          5                  2,4,5,6
          6                   2,5,6
          7                      8
          8                      8
          9                      8
         10                      1
         11                     14
         12                     14
         13                     18
         14                     13
         15                   16,17
         16                   16,17
         17                     15
         18                     15
         19                     13
         20                     14
         21                   12,13
         22                   12,14
         23                   9,13
         24                   9,14
         25                   11,13
         26                   11,14
         27                   10,13
         28                   10,14
         29                      6
         30                      6

                                                  1
      CLAIMS
   1. A view device support comprises the view device support holder, where a view device
       can be housed at the front of the view device holder, from the back of the view device
 5     holder, a landscape view angle support bracket which is built toward the middle right
       hand side edge of the back of the view device support holder, where a landscape view
       angle support frame can be attached to, a portrait view angle support bracket which is
       built toward the middle bottom edge of the back of the device support holder, where a
       portrait view angle support frame can be attached to, a view device support bracket which
 0     is built toward the top left edge at the back of the device support holder, where a support
       string can be attached, the support string can be adjusted in length with a support string
       buckle, to provide a desired view distance and angle.
   2. A view device support according to claim 1, where it has the landscape view angle
 5     support bracket, the portrait view angle support bracket, and the view device support
       bracket, are built at the back of the device view support holder, these brackets can be
       replaced with the external attachment support brackets, namely, the external attachment
       view device support bracket, the external attachment landscape view angle support
       bracket, the external attachment portrait view angle support bracket, where they can be
 0     attached to the same positions on the view device support holder, to provide the same
       functions of that described in claim 1, on one side of each of the external attachment
       support bracket, is attached to a support surface, while adhesive material is built on the
       other side of the support surface, these external attachment brackets can be attached to
       the surface of either the back of a view device support holder, or the back of a view
25     device holder.
   3.  A view device support according to claims 1 and 2, where the external attachment
       supporting bracket, that is, external attachment view device support bracket, the external
       attachment landscape view angle support bracket, the external attachment portrait view
30     angle support bracket, where the adhesive material surfaces on one side of the supporting
       surfaces can be replaced with fasteners such as rivets, eyelets, bolts or screws to provide
       the attachment means of these brackets to the view device support holder.

                                                 2
   4. A view device support according to claims 1, 2 and 3, where the external attachment
 5     supporting brackets, that is, the landscape view angle support bracket, the portrait view
       angle support bracket, and the view device support bracket, can be directly attached to
       the back of a view device, without having to use the view device support holder.
   5. A view device support according to claims 1, 2, 3 and 4, the external attachment
 0     supporting brackets, the landscape view angle support bracket, the portrait view angle
       support bracket, and the view device support bracket, with either adhesive or fasteners,
       can be directly attached to any view device support holder.
   6. A view device support according to claims 1 and 2, where the support string can be
 5     replaced with an external attachment clamp, which can clamp to user's arm, shirt, or bag.
   7. A view device support according in claim 1, where the view device support holder is
       made of fixed size so that only a particular size of a view device can be securely housed.
 0 8. A view device support according in claim 1, where the view device support holder is
       made of adjustable size holder, where the upper, lower, left and right hand sides edges of
       the holder are being constructed on the adjustable arms, thus the holder can be adjusted
       so that different sizes of view devices can be housed.
 5 9. A view device support according in claim 1, where the single landscape and single
       portrait view angle support brackets are replaced with the double landscape and double
       portrait view angle support brackets, and the single view angle support frames are
       replaced with a single or the double view angle support frames.
60 10. A view device support according in claim 1, where the landscape and portrait view angle
       support brackets are replaced with the rotational hinges, where the view angle support
       frames can be pivoting around the hinges, on the same surface of the back of the view
       device support holder surface.
65 11. A view device support according in claim 1, where the view landscape and portrait angle
       support brackets are replaced with the sliding grooves, where the view angle support

                                                  3
       frames can be fitted to and can be sliding in and out along the grooves, on the same
       surface of the back of the view device support holder surface.
 0 12. A view device support according in claim 1, where both the portrait and landscape view
       angle support brackets are replaced with one single rotational hinge, this single hinge is
       built where the portrait view angle support bracket is, the view angle support frames can
       be pivoting around the hinge, on the same surface of the back of the view device support
       holder surface, when it is rotated 90 degrees clockwise, it can support a portrait view,
 5     when it rotated 90 degrees anticlockwise, it can support a landscape view.
   13. A view device support according to claims 1, 2, 9, 10, 11 and 12, where the portrait view
       angle support frame(s), can be attached to the portrait view angle support(s), a portrait
       view is provided when the frame(s) are opened outward toward the bottom part of the
 0     view device support holder.
   14. A view device support according to claims 1, 2, 9, 10, 11 and 12, where the landscape
       view angle support frame(s) can be attached to the landscape view angle support(s), a
       landscape view is provided when the frame(s) are opened outward toward the right part
 5     of the view device support holder.
   15. A view device support according in claim 1, where the view device support bracket is
       replaced with four support rings, with two rings are built toward the upper edges on left
       and right side of the view device support holder, while the other two rings are built
90     toward the middle top and bottom edges of the view device support holder.
   16. A view device support according in claim 1, where the view device support bracket is
       replaced with two view device support brackets, one is built in the middle top edge, while
       the other is at the middle bottom part at the back of the view device support holder.
95
   17. A view device support according in claims 1 and 2, where the external attachment view
       device support bracket is replaced with two external attachment view device support
       brackets, one is attached at the middle top edge, while the other is at the middle bottom
       part at the back of the view device support holder.
DO

                                               4
  18. A view device support according in claims 1, 9, 10, 11 and 12, where the view angle
      support fame(s) can be folded into or unfolded from the view device support holder.
  19. A view device support according in claims I to 18, where the landscape and portrait view
5     angle support brackets, view angle support frames, view device support brackets, and
      view device support holder, support string and buckle, can be made with soft material
      such as cloth, plastics, or hard material such as metals, but not restricted to these
      materials.
0 20. A view device support according in claims 1 to 19, are designed in the described
      mentioned manners, however, variation of the designs are not restricted to the described
      methods, so long as they provide similar functions and applications of a view device
      support.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/8

