                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        Approaches are provided for normalizing performance data for the operation of industrial
vehicles. The approaches comprise categorizing operations of an industrial vehicle into distinct,
measureable activities. The approaches further comprise measuring the actual usage of the
industrial vehicle as a function of each category of operation and wirelessly transmitting that
measured usage to a remote server. The approaches also comprise associating for each category, a
weighted impact on the work performed by each category as a function of energy consumed in
performing that work.

                                                  -1
        NORMALIZING PERFORMANCE DATA ACROSS INDUSTRIAL VEHICLES
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present disclosure relates in general to measurements of industrial vehicle
 5 usage, and in particular, to the measurement and normalization of industrial vehicle work
   for comparison and analysis.
                                       BACKGROUND ART
            Wireless strategies may be deployed by business operations, including distributors,
10 retail stores, manufacturers, etc., to improve the efficiency and accuracy of business
   operations. Wireless strategies may also be deployed by such business operations to avoid
   the insidious effects of constantly increasing labor and logistics costs. In a typical wireless
   implementation, workers are linked to a management system executing on a corresponding
   computer enterprise via a mobile wireless transceiver. The wireless transceiver may be
15 used as an interface to the management system to direct workers in their tasks, e.g., by
   instructing workers where and/or how to pick, pack, put away, move, stage, process or
   otherwise manipulate the items within the operator's facility.       The wireless transceiver
   may also be used in conjunction with a suitable input device to scan, sense or otherwise
   read tags, labels or other identifiers to track the movement of designated items within the
20 facility.
            In order to move items about the operator's facility, workers often utilize industrial
   vehicles, including for example, forklift trucks, hand and motor driven pallet trucks, etc.
   However, disruptions in the operation of such materials handling vehicles impact the
   ability of the management system and corresponding wireless strategy to obtain peak
25 operating     efficiency.     Moreover,     conventional   enterprise    software,   including
   corresponding management systems do not account for the industrial vehicles required to
   perform the work required to move the items about the operator's facility.
                                 DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
30          According to aspects of the present disclosure, a method of normalizing industrial
   vehicle performance data is provided.       The method comprises establishing at least one
   category associated with a distinct, measureable activity capable of being performed by an
   industrial vehicle. Each category is characterized by at least one parameter. The method

                                                   -2
   also comprises electronically collecting data from an industrial vehicle corresponding to
   actual vehicle use, where the collected data satisfies the parameter defining each category.
   The method still further comprises accumulating the collected data according to each
   category.    The method yet further comprises associating for each category, a weighted
 5 impact on work performed by that category as a function of energy consumed in
   performing that work. The method also comprises providing an indication of the work
   performed by the industrial vehicle based upon the accumulated data.
            According to further aspects of the present disclosure, a method of normalizing
   performance data for the operation of industrial vehicles is provided.            The method
10 produces a universal measurement for a unit of work, providing a way of measuring and
   evaluating    the ability of an industrial vehicle to perform work.              The universal
   measurement also allows a way of comparing industrial vehicles against each other, using
   a standard unit of measure.
            The method comprises measuring the horizontal movement of an industrial vehicle
15 over a pre-determined interval and measuring the vertical movement of the forks of the
   industrial vehicle over the pre-determined interval. The method also comprises summing
   the horizontal movement and the vertical movement to a summed total. Still further, the
   method comprises deriving a work unit by dividing the summed total by a standardizing
   factor. For instance, the work unit may be defined as power expended per unit of time,
20 measured in kilowatt hours.
            According to yet further aspects of the present disclosure, a method of normalizing
   performance data of industrial vehicles is provided.       The method comprises identifying
   distinct, measurable activities. The method also comprises identifying a measure Yi...       YN
   as at least one of a time duration (ti . . . tN) corresponding to each activity, and a distance
25 (di ... dN) corresponding to each activity. The method also comprises assigning a weight
   (Xi  ...  XN)  to each activity to produce a weighted activity as An = XnYn; and calculating
   total event cost (ECotai) as
                                                      N
                                          ECtotj=     X(An)
30                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 is a schematic of an illustrative operating environment in which aspects of
   the disclosure herein may be practiced;

                                                 -3
           FIG. 2 is a view of an operator in an industrial vehicle having a battery, a battery
   management system and an information linking device for wirelessly communicating with
   a computing environment, according to aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 3 is a flow chart of a method for normalizing performance data for the
 5 operation of industrial vehicles, according to various aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 4 is an exemplary representation of a single category for industrial vehicle
   monitoring, according to aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 5 is an exemplary representation of a set of categories for industrial vehicle
   monitoring, according to aspects of the present disclosure;
10         FIG. 6 is a chart showing exemplary travel and lift operations plotted as kilowatt
   hours as a function of time, according to aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 7 is a chart plotting exemplary kilowatt hours as a function of time for an
   ideal compared to a measured response, according to aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 8 is a schematic representation of the movement of a load in the horizontal
15 and vertical directions, according to aspects of the present disclosure; and
           FIG. 9 is a diagram illustrating a computer system for executing computer-readable
   program code, according to various aspects of the present disclosure.
                       MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
20         According to various aspects of the present disclosure, approaches are provided for
   normalizing performance data for the operation of industrial vehicles. The normalization
   approaches herein may be used to translate performance data across operating facilities
   (e.g., warehouses), enterprise operations, industries, etc., by providing a normalized
   measure that is vehicle independent. As such, the normalized measure herein is useful in
25 evaluating industrial vehicles based upon different manufacturers, makes, models, etc.
           In this manner, aspects of the present disclosure herein provide a standardized
   measure of work for an industrial vehicle.       By normalizing industrial vehicle work to a
   standardized and consistent unit of measure, comparative analysis (cost, efficiency or
   both) may be performed for aspects such as fleet operation, operational efficiency, team
30 efficiency, and industrial vehicle operation.

                                                  -4
                                         System Architecture
            Aspects of the present disclosure comprise systems that enable industrial vehicles
   to wirelessly communicate with an application deployed in an enterprise computing
   environment. As used herein, an industrial vehicle is any equipment that is capable of
 5 moving or otherwise being moved about a work site.             Exemplary industrial vehicles
   include materials handling vehicles, such as forklift trucks, reach trucks, turret trucks,
   walkie stacker trucks, tow tractors, hand operated pallet trucks, etc.
           Referring now to the drawings and particularly to Fig. 1, an exemplary computing
   environment     10 is illustrated,    which includes     components    that support  wireless
10 communication capabilities.       A plurality of industrial vehicles 12, such as materials
   handling vehicles (shown as forklift trucks for convenience of illustration), each includes a
   communications device that enables that industrial vehicle 12 to wirelessly communicate
   with a processing device, such as an industrial vehicle application server 14.           The
   industrial vehicle application server 14 may further interact with a data resource 16, e.g.,
15 one or more databases, data stores or other sources of information, to facilitate interaction
   with the industrial vehicles 12 as will be described in greater detail herein.
           The computing environment 10 may further support additional processing devices
   18, which may comprise for example, servers, personal computers, etc. One or more of
   the processing devices 18 may also communicate with the industrial vehicles 12 and/or the
20 industrial vehicle application server 14 across the computing environment 10.
           The wireless communication architecture may be based upon a standard wireless
   fidelity (WiFi) infrastructure, such as may be deployed using standard 802.11.xx wireless
   networks for a communications protocol.           However, any other suitable protocol may
   alternatively be implemented.        In an exemplary WiFi implementation, one or more
25 wireless access points 20 may be utilized to relay data between a wireless transceiver of
   each industrial vehicle 12 and one or more wired devices of the computing environment
   10, e.g., the industrial vehicle application server 14.
            Moreover, the computing environment 10 may be supported by one or more hubs
   22 and/or other networking components that interconnect the various hardware and/or
30 software processing devices, including for example, routers, firewalls, network interfaces
   and corresponding interconnections.       The particular networking components provided in
   the computing environment 10 may thus be selected to support one or more intranets,
   extranets, local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), wireless networks

                                                  -5
   (WiFi), the Internet, including the world wide web, and/or other arrangements for enabling
   communication across the computing environment 10, either real time or otherwise, e.g.,
   via time shifting, batch processing, etc.
           Also, one or more computing devices may further communicate with a remote
 5 server 30 across a network 32, such as the Internet. The remote server 30 may comprise,
   for example, a third party server (e.g., operated by the industrial vehicle manufacturer) that
   interacts with the industrial vehicles 12, the industrial vehicle application server 14 and/or
   other processing devices 18 of the computing environment(s) 10. The remote server 30
   may further interact with a data resource 34, e.g., one or more databases, data stores or
10 other sources of information.
                                 Industrial Vehicle Data Collection
           Referring to Fig. 2, an industrial vehicle 12 includes a communication device
   referred to herein as an information linking device 38, a battery 40 comprised of a
15 plurality of battery cells 42 and a battery monitor 44 that allows monitoring of battery
   characteristics, e.g., one or more of current, voltage, resistance, temperature, water level,
   etc.
           The information linking device 38, the industrial vehicle 12, and the corresponding
   computer environment, e.g., as described with reference to FIG. 1, can incorporate any of
20 the features and structures as set out in U.S. Pat. No. 8,060,400 to Wellman, entitled "Fleet
   Management System", the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its
   entirety.
           For instance, the information linking device 38 can include a display, a transceiver
   for wireless communication, e.g., with the application server 14, I/O, a processor in data
25 communication with memory for storing collected data about the corresponding industrial
   vehicle and/or for implementing methods and processes as set out herein, etc.
           In exemplary implementations, the information linking device 38 is coupled to
   and/or communicates with industrial vehicle system components via a suitable industrial
   vehicle network system, e.g., a vehicle network bus.          The industrial vehicle network
30 system is any wired or wireless network, bus or other communications capability that
   allows electronic components of the industrial vehicle 12 to communicate with each other.
   As an example, the industrial vehicle network system may comprise a controller area
   network (CAN) bus, ZigBee, Bluetooth, Local Interconnect Network (LIN), time-triggered

                                                   -6
   data-bus protocol (TTP) or other suitable communication strategy. As will be described
   more fully herein, utilization of the industrial vehicle network system enables seamless
   integration of the components of the industrial vehicle information linking device into the
   native electronics including controllers of the industrial vehicle 12 and optionally, any
 5 electronics peripherals associated with the industrial vehicle 12 that integrate with and can
   communicate over the network system.
            The battery monitor 44 communicates with the information linking device 38, the
   information server 14 or both.        Moreover, the battery monitor 44 may be wired to the
   information linking device 38, or the battery monitor 44 may communicate with the
10 information linking device 38 using a wireless technology such as Bluetooth, etc. The
   battery monitor 44 may include a processor in data communication with memory, to
   implement battery monitoring, battery data logging, for implementing methods and
   processes as set out herein, etc.
            Moreover, the battery monitor 44 may interface with various sensors, such as a
15 current sensor, one or more temperature sensors, a water level sensor, voltage sensor, etc.
   to sample battery characteristics of interest.     The results can be stored on the battery
   monitor itself. In alternative configurations, the samples can be communicated to the
   information linking device 38 for processing, storage, forwarding to the information server
   14, etc.   In still further alternative implementations, the results can be forwarded to the
20 information server 14, etc.
                                   Normalization - the Unit of Work
            Normalization approaches herein can be understood with reference to FIG. 3,
   which illustrates a method 300 of normalizing industrial vehicle performance data.
25          The method 300 comprises establishing, at 302, at least one category.               Each
   category is associated with a distinct, measureable activity capable of being performed by
   an industrial vehicle. Moreover, each category is characterized by at least one parameter,
   which is utilized to measure the corresponding activity. In this regard, the method can
   establish distinct, measurable, categories of industrial vehicle operation.         Examples of
30 categories may include travel distance, travel time, vertical lift distance (i.e., fork raise and
   fork lower operations), vertical lift time, etc.
            The method 300 also comprises measuring, at 304, the actual usage of the
   industrial vehicle, according to each category of operation. For instance, the method 300

                                                  -7
   may electronically collect data from an industrial vehicle corresponding to actual vehicle
   use, where the collected data satisfies the parameter(s) defining each category. This can
   be accomplished, for instance, using the information linking device 38 connected to the
   industrial vehicle 12, described with reference to FIGS. 1 and 2. As noted in greater detail
 5 herein, the information linking device 38 can communicate with components, e.g., vehicle
   controllers, vehicle processors, sensors, monitors, encoders, etc., by communicating across
   a vehicle network bus.       The information linking device 38 can also use dedicated
   input/output connections to interface with various sensors, encoders, switches, and other
   devices on the industrial vehicle. Thus, in the above example, the method maps data types
10 that can be extracted from the industrial vehicle 12 by the information linking device 38,
   to the parameter(s) that define the category (or categories).    During use of the industrial
   vehicle, the information linking device 38 extracts the data values corresponding to the
   data types that are mapped to parameters of the categories to generate the underlying data
   necessary to compute a unit of work, as described in greater detail herein.
15         The method at 304 may also accumulate the collected data according to each
   category.   Thus, as the industrial vehicle 12 is operated, the data associated with each
   category is accumulated to provide the ability to normalize the industrial vehicle usage
   across a range of operations. For instance, if a category is travel distance, the parameter
   may be an expression of distance.        As such, as the industrial vehicle is operated (e.g.,
20 throughout a shift), the total distance traveled is accumulated.
           The method may wirelessly transmit the measured usage to a remote server at 304,
   such as by using the information linking device 38 to communicate the collected data to
   the information server 14.      In this regard, the accumulation may be carried out at the
   industrial vehicle or at the server. For instance, the industrial vehicle may be configured
25 to send data to the server in batches, e.g., based upon a preset time interval or otherwise.
   In this situation, the server may accumulate the data. As another example, the industrial
   vehicle may be outside the range of the wireless infrastructure (e.g., within a semi trailer
   on a loading dock). As such, the information linking device on the industrial vehicle may
   accumulate usage data.
30         The method 300 also comprises associating, at 306, for each category, a weighted
   impact on the work performed by each category as a function of energy consumed in
   performing that work at 306.

                                                   -8
           The method 300 also comprises providing, at 308, an indication of the work
   performed by the industrial vehicle.      The particular manner in which the indication is
   provided, will likely depend upon the implementation.           However, some examples are
   described in greater detail herein.
 5
           Working Examples:
           Referring FIGS. 2, 3 and 4 generally, a simplified approach to categorizing
   operations of an industrial vehicle into distinct, measureable activities (see 302 of FIG. 3)
   is to define a single category, corresponding to "in use". For instance, the illustrated "in
10 use" category 400 is a measure of when the industrial vehicle is operated.             This may
   comprise travel operations, lift operations, other operations and combinations thereof.
   That is, any operation of use may be grouped into the single category.
           In an illustrative implementation, the measure of actual vehicle usage may be
   recorded by a communications device (e.g., information linking device 38) monitoring
15 various industrial vehicle controllers, e.g., traction control, hydraulics control, etc. through
   the vehicle network bus to determine the total industrial vehicle use. The information
   linking device 38 may, for instance, communicate across a vehicle CAN bus to determine
   the total distance traveled, total time spent traveling, total distance that forks of the
   industrial vehicle are moved during lift operations, etc.
20         As used herein, lift operations correspond to the lift distance, e.g., to the distance
   that the forks move on the industrial vehicle.       This may be raise only operations, lower
   only operations, or a combination of raising and lowering operations, as the particular
   application may dictate.
           The singular in use measure may be expressed in an interval such as time (e.g.,
25 minutes of use), in distance (e.g., feet traveled) or a combination of the two. That is, the
   "in use" implementation can be used to capture a measure of work that is done by an
   industrial vehicle.
           As noted above with reference to FIG. 2, the industrial vehicle may also include a
   battery monitor 44. The battery monitor 44 can be used to measure power drawn, current
30 drawn or other measures necessary to determine the energy consumed in order to perform
   the work measured by the information linking device 38.
           By correlating the information collected by the information linking device 38 with
   the battery usage history collected by the battery monitor 44, a measure of the

                                                  -9
   performance of the industrial vehicle 12 may be derived based upon work performed and
   energy required to perform the measured work.
           The basic concept of FIG. 4 can be expanded to comprehend multiple categories.
   For instance, with reference to FIGS. 2, 3 and 5, an example is provided where at least
 5 four categories of industrial vehicle work are defined. The categories conceptually define
   "buckets" of productivity that split the activity of the industrial vehicle, e.g., by time. For
   instance,   categorizing   operations   (see 302     of the    method     300)    may comprise
   distinguishing lift operations from travel operations. In an illustrative example, operations
   may be more narrowly defined as "Travel Loaded" - travel operations while the industrial
10 vehicle is traveling with a load; "Travel Unloaded" - travel operation while the industrial
   vehicle is traveling without a load; "Lift Loaded" - lift operations involving a load; and
   "Lift Unloaded" - lift operations not involving a load.
           In an illustrative example, an encoder or other suitable device is utilized to
   measure lift travel. The distance traveled by the industrial vehicle can be measured using
15 odometer measurements (taking into account tire travel and slippage), location tracking
   systems, navigation systems, combinations of the above, etc.
           Keeping with the above example, the communications device (information linking
   device 38) on the industrial vehicle may be used to measure the actual usage of the
   industrial vehicle as a function of each category.           For instance, in an illustrative
20 implementation, the measure of actual vehicle usage may be recorded by the information
   linking device 38 monitoring various industrial vehicle controllers, e.g., traction control,
   hydraulics control, etc., through the vehicle network bus to determine the total industrial
   vehicle use. The information linking device 38 may, for instance, communicate across a
   vehicle CAN bus to relevant native vehicle controllers to determine the total distance
25 traveled, total time spent traveling, total distance that forks of the industrial vehicle are
   moved during lift operations, etc., for each category.
           By way of example, the information linking device 38 may measure a travel
   distance, where the travel distance is the distance traveled by the industrial vehicle while
   the industrial vehicle is being operated.      The information linking device 38 may also
30 separately measure a lift distance, where the lift distance is the distance of lift operations
   performed by the industrial vehicle while being operated.         Still further, the information
   linking device 38 may separately measure a travel time, where the travel time is the time
   required to travel the travel distance.    Still further, the information linking device may

                                                 -10
   separately measure a lift time, where the lift time is the time required by the lift
   operations.    Still further, the above-categories can be further defined into smaller
   subcategories, such as travel with load, travel without load, lift with load and lift without
   load.
 5         In certain implementations, lift, while generally describing vertical movement, can
   be further sub-divided into raising operations (movement against the direction of gravity)
   and lowering operations (movement in the direction of gravity).                As such, raising
   operations may affect usage differently from lowering operations.             Also, it should be
   appreciated that vehicle idle time may also contribute a different usage amount when
10 considered along with the other recited movements.            In other words, even when the
   vehicle is not traveling or lifting (raising or lowering), there still exists a nominal drain on
   the battery that results from the vehicle simply being in an operational state, but not
   moving. Further clarification is provided below with reference to a specific example.
           Some industrial vehicles enable "blending", which is the simultaneous performance
15 of two or more features that define work. An example of blending is the simultaneous
   performance of a lifting operation with a travel operation, etc. Blending may define one or
   more additional categories, e.g., a category for each class of blending.               Thus, the
   capabilities of the particular industrial vehicle, and the desired complexity/resolution of
   the method 300 will be used to determine the number of categories.            In this regard, the
20 listing of categories of FIG. 4 and FIG. 5 are by way of simplified illustration of concepts,
   which are not presented by way of limitation.
           Moreover, as noted above, the battery monitor 44 may be utilized for extracting
   information from a battery coupled to the industrial vehicle so as to measure actual energy
   consumed by the industrial vehicle over the travel and/or over the lift operations (for each
25 category).    As such, the battery monitor facilitates associating for each category, a
   weighted impact on work performed by that category as a function of energy consumed in
   performing that work. In this regard, the battery monitor 44 may be replaced by one or
   more sensors, e.g., a current sensor, voltage sensor, temperature sensor, or combination
   thereof, in data communication with the information linking device 38 or a suitable data
30 capture device.

                                                - 11
                                         Actual or Estimated
           As noted in greater detail herein, the industrial vehicle 12 includes a battery
   monitor 44 that is capable of sampling battery characteristics, e.g., current drawn from the
   battery during use. As such, the industrial vehicle's use of energy as a function of work
 5 can be based upon actual measurements.          Alternatively, the industrial vehicle's use of
   energy as a function of work can be based upon an assigned parameter.           The assigned
   parameter may be implemented as a programming variable assigned by a remote server, a
   value stored within the information linking device 38 or information server 14, etc. Such
   an arrangement may be useful, for instance, where an industrial vehicle does not have a
10 battery monitor 44.      Moreover, estimated and/or actual energy use may be static or
   dynamic.     Also, the estimated and/or actual energy use may be task dependent.
   Regardless, in illustrative implementations herein, work performed by the industrial
   vehicle is measured in power expended per unit of time. An example comprises kilowatt
   hours (kWh). The use of kilowatt hours allows for the normalization of energy usage as a
15 function of work.
                                            Cost of Work
           Aspects of the present disclosure herein contemplate that work performed by an
   industrial vehicle corresponds in general, to the amount of energy transferred by the
20 industrial vehicle acting through a distance, e.g., net force times a change in distance. In
   this regard, one approach to defining a weighted impact on work performed by a category
   as a function of energy consumed in performing that work, is to express the weighted
   impact as a cost.
           According to aspects of the present disclosure, a work measure (i.e., weighted
25 impact) is defined, that is expressed as power expended per unit of time, e.g., kilowatt
   hours. To determine kilowatt hours of use, the wattage (in watts) times the hours used
   divided by 1000 provides kilowatt hours.        In practice, the battery voltage is known or
   measureable, and is multiplied by the various measured current draws over time by the
   battery monitor 44 to compute power in watts. In other examples, power can be calculated
30 in other ways, e.g., using load resistance and current, load resistance and voltage, etc.
           To further reduce the calculation to a measure of financial cost (cost in dollars), the
   computed usage in kilowatt hours is multiplied by cost per kilowatt hour. The cost value
   may vary, e.g., based upon the cost to acquire the energy (to charge the battery for

                                                 - 12
   instance). The cost per kilowatt hour may fluctuate based upon geographic location, day,
   season and any number of other factors.         However, all such factors are identifiable or
   discoverable to the system.
            Moreover, the cost can be further characterized. For instance, because both time
 5 and distance measurements are available, the system can consider the cost as a function of
   distance. By way of example, the system can further characterize work per unit distance,
   e.g., kWh/ft.
                                          Static Assignment
10          Various aspects of the present disclosure assign a static baseline value to each
   defined category of operation. That is, each category can be given a relative weighted
   impact on work, e.g., weighted impact on the work to energy ratio (and in turn, cost) due
   to the amount of energy used.      Keeping with the above example, of both travel and lift
   operations, each with load and without load, a static assignment can be made to associate a
15 cost per category.    In a non-limiting but illustrative example, Travel Unloaded may be
   assigned a first cost, e.g., 10 kWh/ft. Travel Loaded may be assigned a second cost, e.g.,
    15 kWh/ft. Lift Unloaded can be assigned a third cost, e.g., 20 kWh/ft. Moreover, Lift
   Loaded can be assigned a fourth cost, e.g., 25 kWh/ft. Of course, the above is merely
   illustrative, and any assigned static amount can be assigned.
20
                                        Dynamic Assignment
            The values used for the weighted impact on work when the industrial vehicle is
   loaded may be dependent upon the weight of the load being carried.           Any number of
   techniques may be employed to account for load weight.                  For instance,   static
25 approximations can be used.        Alternatively, a baseline static value can be used, as
   supplemented by a dynamic contribution that accounts for the weight of the load.           As
   further alternatives, the categories can be defined granularly to include many buckets, each
   bucket holding a load or range of loads. Still further a correction, graduated scale, etc.
   may be used. For dynamic loading, there is an increased demand in the quantity of data
30 required to accurately track the dynamic load as compared to the static implementation.
   However, the information linking device 38 and/or battery monitor 44 may have sufficient
   bandwidth to capture the quantity of required data to implement dynamic compensation.

                                                 - 13
                                     Task Profiles/Usage Profiles
            According to aspects of the present disclosure, the categories can be utilized to
   evaluate energy in terms of predetermined tasks, e.g., based upon task profiles (also
   referred to herein as usage profiles). For instance, in a warehouse operation, work may be
 5 measured by a factor such as "pallets moved".            However, tasks may also comprise
   measures over a shift, day, week, replenishment operation, pick operation, etc.
            Moreover, the system can track actual compared to ideal numbers and measure
   how efficiently an executed task associated with a task profile is performed.              In this
   regard, an average kWh/ft value can be established (ideal, measured or both) per industrial
10 vehicle, based upon task profiles.
           For instance, a task profile may specify that for a given industrial vehicle (or type
   of industrial vehicle/fleet of industrial vehicles, plant location, or other logical grouping) a
   put away profile has a first weighted impact on work (i.e., cost), e.g., 23.2 kWh/ft.           A
   second task profile, e.g., a replenish profile has a second cost, e.g., 22.7 kWh/ft. Another
15 task profile has a third cost, e.g., 13.8 kWh/ft, and yet another task profile, e.g., a transport
   profile, has a fourth cost, e.g., 11.6 kWh/ft. Of course, any number of task profiles with
   different costs may be provided by an implementation of the systems and methods set out
   herein.
           Referring to FIG. 6, a chart 600 illustrates via exemplary data, kWh as a function
20 of total lift distance 602. The chart 600 also illustrates kWh as a function of time for total
   distance traveled 604.     By evaluating kWh over time, trends and useful data can be
   extracted.
           For instance, the chart illustrates that at tO, the industrial vehicle was stationary.
   The industrial vehicle began traveling as noted by 604 having a non-zero value between tO
25 and ti.    At t1, the kWh as a function of total lift distance 602 spikes, levels off then
   subsides by t2. This informs an analyst that a put away was likely being performed. Also,
   total distance traveled 604 is non-zero at the initial time that the total lift distance 602
   begins to spike. Because the total distance traveled 604 is non-zero, it can be presumed
   that a blending operation was being performed. From t2 to t3, the travel distance is non
30 zero, indicating travel of the industrial vehicle.        However, the lift distance is zero,
   indicating that the industrial vehicle has not engaged in a lift operation.
            Referring to FIG. 7, a chart 700 illustrates an example measurement 702 of actual
   work in kWh performed by an industrial vehicle as a function of time. The chart 700 also

                                                - 14
   illustrates a first ideal curve 704 (Max curve) representing operation of the industrial
   vehicle in an ideal manner where energy usage is maximized in favor of potentially (but
   not necessarily) increasing worker productivity.       For instance, operating the industrial
   vehicle along the first ideal curve 704 may correspond to operation of the industrial
 5 vehicle at its maximum capability, thus maximizing the potential of the industrial vehicle
   to get work done, e.g., move pallets.
            The chart 700 also includes a second ideal curve 706 (Min curve) representing
   operation of the industrial vehicle in an ideal manner where energy usage is minimized,
   potentially (but not necessarily) at the reduction of worker productivity.       For instance,
10 operating the industrial vehicle along the second ideal curve 706 may correspond to
   operation of the industrial vehicle in a manner that minimizes use of energy.
            The area between the example measurement 702 and the first ideal curve 704, and
   the area between the example measurement 702 and the second ideal curve 706, represent
   opportunity for improvement. More particularly, the area between the first ideal curve 704
15 and the example measurement 702 represents an opportunity for an operator to improve
   worker productivity by better taking advantage of the capabilities of the industrial vehicle,
   e.g., to move more pallets in a given timeframe. The area between the second ideal curve
   706 and the example measurement 702 represents an opportunity for an operator to
   improve energy conservation. This may be accomplished, e.g., through more efficient use
20 of blending, traveling with a load lower on the forks, etc.
            Thus, the availability of improvement opportunity is the integral of the Max (ideal)
   usage over time (t) minus the integral of the actual usage as a function of time (t) in order
   to improve productivity opportunity (PO).         Likewise, the availability of improvement
   opportunity is the integral of the Actual usage over time (t) minus the integral of the Min
25 usage as a function of time (t) in order to improve energy opportunity (130).          In this
   regard, the selection of the proper sampling rate is necessary to achieve the desired
   resolution of performance and measure.
            The above chart 700 also demonstrates that opportunities exist to optimize
   industrial vehicle utilization based upon a customized profile. For instance, it may be that
30 a particular implementation does not want to fully maximize energy consumption (Max
   curve) or energy conservation (Min curve). As such, a customized energy profile can be
   created that follows a path intermediate to the first ideal curve 704 and the second ideal
   curve 706. Moreover, multiple energy profiles may be created, each for a desired purpose.

                                                - 15
   Still further, a system such as that described more fully herein can capture the actual
   operator energy use, and create a usage profile that can be compared to a customized
   profile.    As yet another example implementation, multiple energy profiles may be
   available to the operator. The industrial vehicle operator can then select an energy profile
 5 that is suitable for the operator and/or operator assigned tasks. For instance, the operator
   can be first shown their actual energy usage. Based upon knowing their actual energy
   usage, the operator may have the opportunity to select among one or more energy profiles.
   This information can be utilized for assessments of energy use compared to worker
   productivity, examples of which are set out in greater detail herein.
10
                                      Efficiency Assessments
            According to aspects of the present disclosure, the assessment of operations and
   operation efficiency can be carried out in an efficient and organized manner. For instance,
   the unit of work discussed more fully herein, may be used to implement a warehouse
15 management system that is standardized to the industrial vehicle. That is, by measuring
   the work performed by each industrial vehicle, data is naturally collected as a matter of
   normal operation. According to aspects of the present disclosure, pre-determined tasks
   can be utilized against which standardized measures of each industrial vehicle work is
   measured (e.g., on an individual vehicle basis).      This allows the measurement of work
20 required by various industrial vehicles to perform activities, such as put-aways, picks, etc.
   Thus, the normal job of an industrial engineer with a stop watch and a clip board is
   replaced with an accurate, automatic, continuous data collection device.        The analyst
   simply allows the industrial vehicles to do their jobs and allow the data to be collected.
   Once collected, the analyst can evaluate the collected data to perform any necessary
25 operations optimizations that are desired.
                                      Operational Productivity
            According to aspects of the present disclosure herein, operational productivity can
   be evaluated.    More particularly, the unit of work described herein allows for a vehicle
30 driven standard for measuring performance.           Thus, a standard of measure can be
   customized to each particular industrial vehicle. By customizing the standard to the truck,
   any factors unique to the industrial vehicle can be normalized out of an analysis, so that
   activities such as performance measures related to the operation of the industrial vehicle

                                                  - 16
   can be more accurately evaluated. For example, an operator using an older truck is not
   penalized in a performance assessment due solely to the truck. Rather, the normalized
   capabilities of the truck serve as a benchmark for gauging the performance of operations
   involving the industrial vehicle.
 5         As a few additional illustrative examples, in evaluating operation productivity, the
   cost of inputs to a productivity calculation, divided by the revenue of output should be less
   than a maximum acceptable productivity ratio.           Using the techniques herein, various
   productivity metrics can be realized. For instance, a ratio can be measured, representing
   the total time spent on the industrial vehicle while using the vehicle for productive work.
10 As another example, time required to perform certain tasks can be evaluated. This may be
   an inverse relationship to pallets moved for a given time period. Moreover, the efficiency
   of the industrial vehicle itself can be evaluated (e.g., kWh as a function of work
   completed/tasks completed.
           Still further, aspects of the present disclosure herein allow an analysis of the cost of
15 operation in terms of compensation, the cost of energy to perform work (e.g., in dollars per
   kWh), etc.
                             Universal Units of Work - Work unit (W.U.)
           According to aspects of the present disclosure, a method of normalizing
20 performance data for the operation of industrial vehicles, comprises defining a universal
   unit of work.      A universal unit of work may be determined by measuring the total
   horizontal movement of an industrial vehicle over a pre-determined interval and
   measuring the total vertical movement of the forks of the industrial vehicle over the pre
   determined interval. The universal unit of work is further defined by summing the total
25 horizontal movement and the total vertical movement to a summed total and dividing the
   summed total by a standardizing factor.
           The universal unit of work may be used with the other approaches herein. For
   instance, a method may define a plurality of categories, each category corresponding to a
   predefined task, as described in the examples discussed with FIGS. 3 and 4. Moreover,
30 the universal unit of work may be used with predefined tasks, e.g., using the task profiles
   described more fully herein.       This allows standardized measures of varying degrees of
   granularity. For instance, industrial vehicles can be compared down to the measure of a
   work unit. Alternatively, comparisons can be made by category, e.g., travel with a load,

                                                  - 17
   travel without a load, lift with a load, lift without a load, blending, etc. Still further,
   comparisons can be made for particular tasks (usage profiles)                   such as picks,
   replenishments, pallet movement, etc.           Still further, comparisons can be made on
   operators, teams, shifts, fleets, industrial vehicles, and other desired measures.
 5           Referring to FIG. 8, the Work unit is a mechanism for normalizing performance
   data across warehouses, operations and industry-vertical database categories.
             Let X = Total Horizontal Travel Distance Loaded (e.g., in feet)
            Let Y = Total Vertical Lift Distance Loaded (e.g., in feet)
            Let I (X,Y)/Z = Total Work units (W.U.).          Here, Z is the standardizing factor.
10 That is, Z is an arbitrary number selected to normalize the summation to a reasonable
   number for convenience of manipulation of the unit of work.                   In an illustrative
   implementation, Z-100. Thus, as a few illustrative examples:
    1 W.U. = 100 feet moved with a load in either / both directions;
    1 W.U.= 80 feet traveled loaded + 20 feet lifted loaded;
15  1 W.U. = 100 feet traveled loaded + 0 feet lifted loaded.
            The W.U. may be utilized to evaluate the cost of operation by dividing cost by the
   W.U. that was determined to derive cost/W.U. The W.U. can be used with the categories
   described above with reference to FIGS. 3-7. For instance, the W.U. can be computed for
20 each category, and the calculated W.U. for each category can be applied to determine cost
   of operations.
                                              Management
            According to various aspects of the present disclosure, the unit of work herein, can
25 be utilized to create management standards based upon a combination of dynamic tasks
   (i.e., tasks centered around the industrial vehicle), static tasks (i.e., non-dynamic tasks not
   utilizing the industrial vehicle), or combination of dynamic and static tasks. Thus, using
   the unit of work described herein, warehouse management systems, labor management
   systems, etc., can shift to a vehicle-centered focus. Moreover, tasks can be characterized
30 in the management system, which are normalized by the industrial vehicle. For instance,
   vehicles for tasks such as pick and put away operations may be allocated based upon the
   cost per vehicle to complete each operation in order to drive cost of fleet ownership down.
   Still further, factors that may ultimately affect the performance of an industrial vehicle,

                                                  - 18
   e.g., battery condition, tire diameter, tire wear, hydraulic pump motor efficiency, operation
   of the industrial vehicle, etc. can be fleshed out using the industrial vehicle comparisons.
                                          Analyst Dashboard
 5          As noted above with regard to Fig. 1 and FIG. 2, the information linking device 38,
   the battery monitor 44 or both, can communication collected information to a remote
   server, e.g., server 14. This allows the server to explore the collected data to generate
   reports, displays, etc.    In an illustrative implementation, a (near) real-time dashboard
   displays information about the work being performed by a fleet of industrial vehicles.
10          For instance, a dashboard may reside on an analyst or manager computer screen
   desktop to allow the analyst to monetize the opportunities for improvement in the
   operation of the managed industrial vehicle fleet, to prioritize activities and take action.
           In general, an analyst can use the above-described data to answer queries such as
   "which opportunities represent the largest savings and highest priority"; "what actions are
15 required to take to realize savings", etc. The analyst can start off by measuring relative
   performance. For instance, a database (e.g., local site's application specific database or a
   broad vertical database of a manufacturer, such as database 34 of FIG. 1) of warehouse
   performance is utilized to identify opportunities for reducing operational waste (cost) by
   comparing     a  site  (environment)     performance    to  performance     in their  industry.
20 Monetization of the delta between actual performance and the benchmarked performance
   from the historical databases (customer's data or industry data) can be implemented.
   Monetization of opportunities helps managers prioritize their focus.
            An exemplary dashboard may show, for example, a main cost rollup charting cost
   per unit work of a fleet of industrial vehicles over a period of time. Thresholds can be set
25 where the cost/unit work is too high, thus triggering an alert.       Approaches such as that
   above, provide an opportunity in identifying money that has been spent in the operation
   (for example, cost per hour of operators that have been driving industrial vehicles).        A
   second opportunity is lost time, measured in terms of money (for example, excessive non
   productive time spent on the industrial vehicles).
30
                                           Specific Example
            Having described various embodiments, this disclosure provides a specific
   example in an effort to more clearly describe how the above-described embodiments may

                                                 - 19
   be implemented. It should, however, be appreciated that this specific example is a non
   limiting example and is only provided for purposes of clarity.
           By way of example, presume that a 3 ton (2,721 Kilogram) unloaded forklift truck
   that is located in a center of a 5,000-foot-by-5,000-foot (1524 meter x 1524 meter)
 5 warehouse will be used to carry a 2000 pound (907 Kilogram) pallet from a three-foot
   high shelf (0.91 meter shelf) on a first location of the warehouse to an eight-foot-high
   shelf (2.44 meter shelf) at a second location of the warehouse.       For simplicity, presume
   that only orthogonal paths are permitted (e.g., 90-degree left turns, 90-degree right turns,
    180-degree U-turns, straight-line paths, etc.).     With these presumptions, the example
10 calculation would proceed as follows.
           The unloaded forklift proceeds northbound from the center of the warehouse, and
   travels 25 feet (7.62 meters).     This unloaded, northbound travel draws 50 amperes of
   current from a 36 volt, 600 amp-hour battery over the course of 0.2 minutes. When the
   unloaded forklift reaches the northern stopping point, it makes a 90-degree turn toward the
15 east. This 90-degree turn draws 25 amperes of current from the battery over 0.1 minutes.
   The unloaded forklift then travels eastbound 25 feet (7.62 meters) until it reaches the
   destination where the pallet resides.     This eastbound travel draws 50 amperes of current
   from the battery over 0.2 minutes.
           To the extent that the pallet is located on a three-foot-high shelf (0.91 meter shelf),
20 the forklift raises its forks three feet (0.91 meter) and moves forward to place the forks
   underneath the pallet and slightly raise the now-loaded forks. This lifting operation draws
    100 amperes of current over 0.2 minutes. The now-loaded forklift makes a 180-degree U
   turn, drawing 50 amperes of current from the battery over 0.1 minutes.           The forks are
   lowered three feet (0.91 meter) to ground level, drawing 10 amperes of current over 0.1
25 minutes. The lowering operation draws less current than the raising operation, since the
   work is being done along the direction of gravity rather than against the direction of
   gravity.
            For this example, other traffic in the warehouse causes the now-loaded forklift to
   remain stationary (or idles) for 2 minutes, for which 10 amperes of current are drawn due
30 to the idle time.    Because the forklift is still in operation, idling draws some nominal
   amount of current from the battery.
            Having made the U-turn, the loaded forklift travels 50 feet (15.24 meters)
   westbound, thereby drawing 150 amperes from the battery over 0.7 minutes.            From this

                                                - 20
   example, the loaded forklift draws more current and moves more slowly than the unloaded
   forklift. Upon reaching the western stopping point, the loaded forklift makes a 90-degree
   southward turn, which draws 50 amperes over 0.3 minutes. Thereafter the loaded forklift
   travels southbound 50 feet (15.24 meters) to its final destination where the pallet is to be
 5 unloaded. This southbound travel draws 150 amperes over 0.7 minutes.
            Having reached the southwest destination, the loaded forklift raises its forks
   slightly above eight feet (2.44 meter), which is the height of the shelf on which the pallet
   must be deposited.     That lifting operation draws 200 amperes over 0.2 minutes.        This
   raising operation with the pallet draws more current than the raising operation without the
10 pallet, since more energy is needed to raise loaded forks than unloaded forks.
            The pallet is placed on the shelf, and the now-unloaded forklift moves backward
    10 feet (3 meters) while concurrently lowering its forks from eight feet (2.44 meter) to
   ground level (for a total linear distance of 12.8 feet/3.9 meters). In other words, having
   unloaded the pallet, the unloaded forklift performs a blended operation (concurrently
15 traveling and lowering of forks). This blended operation draws 25 amperes of current over
   0.1 minutes.
            Thus, in this specific example, the total event cost (or the cost of the entire
   sequence of events) of this operation is 31,320 kWh. This event cost was expended over
   the course of 4.9 minutes and over a total distance of 176.8 feet (53.89 meters).
20          Should more information than simply the total event cost be desired, then the total
   event cost can be further weighted or modified to extract those numbers. For example, in
   a very simple example, the total event cost can be divided by the total linear distance
   traveled by the forklift to provide the event cost per unit distance (i.e., kWh/ft) or event
   cost per unit time (i.e., kWh/min). So, for this particular example, the event cost per unit
25 distance would be 177.1 kWh/ft and the event cost per unit time would be 6391.8
   kWh/min.
            As noted above, each distinct operation (e.g., idle, unloaded travel, loaded travel,
   unloaded raising, loaded raising, unloaded lowering, loaded lowering, turning, etc.) results
   in a different current draw on the battery. In other words, each distinct operation results in
30 a different usage cost.    As such, one may wish to know more than simply the coarse
   kWh/ft or kWh/min.       For those types of specifics, one may assign a distinct weighting
   factor that corresponds to each distinct task to properly reflect the actual energy cost for
   those distinct tasks. For example, from experimental measurement data, a higher weight

                                                 -21
   can be assigned to loaded raising of the forks than unloaded lowering of the forks, and yet
   another weight to vehicle idling, etc. By assigning weighting factors indicative of each
   distinct task, the system can more-accurately estimate the total energy cost associated with
   a predefined task. Also, this weighting factor may take into consideration the weight of a
 5 particular vehicle (e.g., hand operated pallet truck may be assigned a lower weight than an
   industrial forklift truck, since one would require more current than the other).
           Taking all of these factors into account, it is mathematically possible to assign a
   universal unit of work (W.U.),        as described above, which permits an equivalent
   comparison between the hand operated pallet truck and the industrial forklift truck.      In
10 other words, the universal unit of work would effectively allow comparisons of vehicles
   and tasks that were previously difficult (if not impossible) without the W.U.
           By way of example, using the specific forklift example, the total event cost
   (ECotal) may be calculated according to the following equations:
                       N
            EC.=      X (A-)                                [Eq. 1],
15 where A. = X.t., with A. representing a weighted activity, Xn representing a weight, and ti,
   representing a time-duration during which each corresponding activity is being performed.
   From Eq. 1, a normalized event cost (ECrm) can be calculated as:
                         EC,,
            EC-=          N
                         R=1                                [Eq. 2],
   Should one wish to scale the normalized event cost with a scaling factor (S), then Eq. 2
20 can simply be multiplied by the scaling factor (S).
           In another example, rather than using time as a baseline, the total event cost
   (ECotai) may be calculated using distance as a baseline. So, in Eq. 1, A. = Xadn, with An
   representing a weighted activity, Xn representing a weight, and dn representing a distance
   that corresponds to the activity that is being performed. From this, the normalized event
25 cost (ECnorm) can be calculated as:
                         ECt 2 1
           ECnan, =       N
                           J(d.)
                         11=1                      [Eq. 3],
   Again, should one wish to scale the normalized event cost with a scaling factor (S), then
   Eq. 3 can simply be multiplied by the scaling factor (S).

                                                   -22
            Since each activity or task expends a different amount of energy (e.g., raising
   loaded forks expends more energy than lowering unloaded forks, etc.), and since each
   different type of vehicle expends a different amount of energy for the same task (e.g.,
   forklift expends more energy than hand pallet mover, etc.), the weight is a function of both
 5 vehicle type and activity type (e.g., unloaded traveling, loaded traveling, unloaded turning,
   loaded turning, unloaded raising, loaded raising, unloaded lowering, loaded lowering,
   blended combination of activities, etc.) and a combination of vehicle type and activity
   type.
            The specific numbers (e.g., amperes of current drawn, minutes traveled, weight of
10 the pallet, truck weight, type of truck, etc.) are only used as examples, and these numbers
   may be different based on actual measurements, more-detailed specifications, etc. Also, it
   should be appreciated that experimental results from varying vehicles, tasks, and
   conditions can be used to refine weighting factors that are used to derive the universal
   W.U.
15          Referring to FIG. 9, a schematic of an exemplary computer system having
   computer readable program code for executing aspects described herein with regard to the
   preceding FIGURES.           The computer system can be in the server computer 14, the
   information linking device 38, the battery monitor 44, combinations thereof, etc.
            The computer system 900 includes one or more microprocessors 910 that are
20 connected to memory 920 via a system bus 930. A bridge 940 connects the system bus
   930 to an I/O Bus 950 that links peripheral devices to the microprocessor(s) 910.
   Peripherals may include storage 960, such as a hard drive, removable media storage 970,
   e.g., floppy, flash, CD and/or DVD drive, I/O device(s) 980 such as a keyboard, mouse,
   etc. and a network adapter 990.           The memory 920, storage 960, removable media
25 insertable into the removable media storage 970 or combinations thereof, implement
   computer-readable        hardware   that    stores  machine-executable  program     code  for
   implementing the methods, configurations, interfaces and other aspects set out and
   described herein.
            Still further, the exemplary computer system may be implemented as an apparatus
30 for normalizing industrial vehicle performance data, which may comprise a processor
   (e.g., microprocessor 910) coupled to a memory (e.g., memory 920, storage 960,
   removable media insertable into the removable media storage 970 or combinations
   thereof),    wherein    the processor    is   programmed   to  normalize   industrial vehicle

                                                - 23
   performance data by executing program code to perform one or more of the methods set
   out herein.
            The present invention may be a system, a method, and/or a computer program
   product.     The computer program product may include a computer readable storage
 5 medium (or media) having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a
   processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.
            The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and
   store instructions for use by an instruction execution device, e.g., the system described
   with reference to FIG. 9. Thus, a computer readable storage medium, as used herein, is
10 not to be construed as being transitory signals per se, such as radio waves or other freely
   propagating electromagnetic waves through a transmission media.
            Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to
   respective computing/processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to
   an external computer or external storage device via a network, for example, the Internet, a
15 local area network, a wide area network and/or a wireless network.
            Aspects of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to flowchart
   illustrations and/or block diagrams. Each block of the flowchart illustrations and/or block
   diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and/or block diagrams,
   can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program
20 instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special
   purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a
   machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or
   other    programmable     instruction  execution   apparatus,  create  a   mechanism     for
   implementing the functions/acts specified in the flowchart and/or block diagram block or
25 blocks. In some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur
   out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in
   fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in
   the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that
   each block of the block diagrams and/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks
30 in the block diagrams and/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose
   hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of
   special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

                                                 -24
           These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable
   medium that when executed can direct a computer, other programmable data processing
   apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions
   when stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including
 5 instructions which when executed, cause a computer to implement the function/act
   specified in the flowchart and/or block diagram block or blocks.
           The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects
   only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein, the singular forms
    a , "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
10 clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms "comprises" and/or
   "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features,
   integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence
   or addition of one or more other features, integers,           steps, operations, elements,
   components, and/or groups thereof
15         The corresponding structures, material s, acts, and equivalents of any means or step
   plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any disclosed structure,
   material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as
   specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for
   purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to
20 the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to
   those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the
   disclosure. The aspects of the disclosure herein were chosen and described in order to best
   explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application, and to enable others
   of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure with various modifications as are
25 suited to the particular use contemplated.
           Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by
   reference to embodiments thereof, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are
   possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended
   claims.
30
           What is claimed is:

                                                - 25
                                              CLAIMS
   1. A method of normalizing industrial vehicle performance data, comprising:
           establishing at least one category where:
 5                         each category is associated with a distinct, measureable activity
                   capable of being performed by an industrial vehicle, and
                           each category is characterized by at least one parameter;
           electronically collecting data from an industrial vehicle corresponding to actual
   vehicle use, where the collected data satisfies the parameter defining each category;
10         accumulating the collected data according to each category;
           associating for each category, a weighted impact on work performed by that
   category as a function of energy consumed in performing that work; and
           providing an indication of the work performed by the industrial vehicle based upon
   the accumulated data.
15
   2. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
           using a communication device that communicates with native industrial vehicle
   components across a vehicle network to obtain the collected data from the industrial
   vehicle.
20
   3. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein:
           establishing at least one category, comprises:
               establishing a category as whether the industrial vehicle is in use; and
           electronically collecting data from an industrial vehicle corresponding to actual
25 vehicle usage, comprises:
               extracting information from a battery coupled to the industrial vehicle so as to
           measure actual energy consumed by the industrial vehicle.
30

                                                  - 26
   4. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein:
           establishing at least one category, comprises:
               establishing a category as travel distance; and
           electronically collecting data from an industrial vehicle corresponding to actual
 5 vehicle usage, comprises:
               measuring a travel distance, where the travel distance is the distance traveled
           by the industrial vehicle while the industrial vehicle is being operated.
   5. The method of claim 4, wherein measuring a travel distance comprises using
10 odometery that measures tire travel and accounts for tire slippage in determining travel
   distance of industrial vehicles within a warehouse.
   6. The method of claim 4, wherein measuring a travel distance comprises using a location
   tracking system to track the travel of industrial vehicles within a warehouse.
15
   7. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein:
           establishing at least one category, comprises:
               establishing a category as lift distance; and
           electronically collecting data from an industrial vehicle corresponding to actual
20 vehicle usage, comprises:
               measuring a lift distance, where the lift distance is the distance of lift
           operations performed by the industrial vehicle while being operated.
   8. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein:
25         establishing a plurality of categories, comprises:
               establishing a first category as travel of the industrial vehicle where the
           industrial vehicle is traveling with a load;
               establishing a second category as travel of the industrial vehicle where the
           industrial vehicle is traveling with no load;
30             establishing a third category as lift operations with a load; and
               establishing a fourth category as lift operation without a load.

                                                - 27
   9. The method of claim 8, further comprising
           establishing a fifth category that comprises the blending of travel and lifting into a
   single operation.
 5 10. The method of claim 8, wherein:
           associating for each category, a weighted impact comprises assigning a static
   baseline value for each category.
   11. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
10         adjusting the static value associated with a first category by a dynamic value.
   12. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein associating for each
   category, a weighted impact on the work performed by each category comprises:
           defining a work unit expressed as power expended per unit of time; and
15         using the work unit to compute a cost associated with each category.
   13. The method of claim 12, wherein defining a work unit comprises:
               defining the work unit as kilowatt hours.
20 14. The method of claim 12, wherein using the work unit to compute a cost associated
   with each category comprises:
           multiplying the total measure by a cost of energy expended per unit of time.
   15. The method of claim 12 further comprising:
25         determining cost for defined tasks based upon the weighted impacts for the
   categories.
   16. The method of claim 15 further comprising:
           comparing an actual measured cost for a given task to an ideal cost for that task to
30 evaluate the performance of an operator of the industrial vehicle.

                                                   - 28
   17. A method of normalizing industrial vehicle performance data, comprising:
           measuring a total horizontal movement of an industrial vehicle over a pre
   determined interval;
 5         measuring a total vertical movement of the forks of the industrial vehicle over the
   pre-determined interval;
           summing the total horizontal movement and the total vertical movement to a
   summed total;
           deriving a work unit by dividing the summed total by a standardizing factor; and
10         providing an indication of the derived work unit.
   18. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
           determining a cost per work unit by dividing a determined total cost by the derived
   work unit.
15
   19. The method of any of claims 17 or 18, further comprising:
           defining a plurality of categories, each category corresponding to a predefined
   task;
           computing the work units for each predefined task for multiple industrial vehicles;
20 and
           comparing the work units for each industrial vehicle, for each predefined task to
   compare fleet operations.
   20. The method of any of claims 17-19, wherein deriving a work unit further comprises:
25         defining a work unit expressed as power expended per unit of time, measured in
   kilowatt hours; and
           using the work unit to compute a cost associated with each category.
   21.     A method of normalizing performance data of industrial vehicles, comprising:
30         identifying distinct, measurable activities;
           identifying a measure Yi... YN as at least one of:
               a time duration (ti ...   tN) corresponding to each activity, and
               a distance (d, . . . dN) corresponding to each activity;

                                              - 29
       assigning a weight (XI   . . . XN) to each activity to produce a weighted activity:
           A. = XnY.; and
       calculating total event cost (ECtotai) as:
           ECt=a         (A)
 5
   22. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
       calculating a normalized event cost (ECorm) as:
               EC_=      N
                        n=1.
10 23. The method of claim 21 or 22, further comprising:
       calculating total work units expended as:
           WU = (S)(ECorm),
       wherein S is a scaling factor.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
