                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         Disinfection methods and apparatuses are provided which generate pulses of germicidal
light at a frequency greater than 20 Hz and project the pulses of light to surfaces at least 1.0
meter from the disinfection apparatus. The pulses of light comprise a pulse duration and an
energy flux sufficient to generate a power flux between approximately 200 W/m 2 and
approximately 5000 W/m 2 of ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200 nm and 320
nm at the surfaces. Other disinfection methods and apparatuses are provided which generate
pulses of light comprising germicidal light and visible light from a germicidal light source and
generate pulses of light from a visible light source that is distinct from the germicidal light
source. The projections of visible light from the light sources produce a continuous stream of
visible light or a collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency greater than 60 Hz.
                                                   43

                                          2/4
                     80                                        86
                                                         94
                                                                            94
                                   09
                                                                   92
       Li\/
                                                          94                   94
                        82
                                                                88
              FIG. 4                                           FIG. 5
                  Target Ranges of Energy Flux and Power Flux of
                  Ultraviolet Light Between -200 nm and -320 nm
Pulse frequency >-20Hz
     -20- -1500 J/m2       ~0.02 - -1.5 J/m2  -6.0 - -370 [pJ/m 2  ~1.5 - -95 pJ/m2
     -0.8 - -5.0 MW/m -800 - -5000 W/m 2
                      2                       -200 - -1300 W/m 2   -50 - -300 W/m 2
      98                     1.0 meter             2.0 meter             3.0 meter
 Lamp Surface
                                       FIG. 6

             ROOM AND AREA DISINFECTION UTILIZING PULSED LIGHT
                WITH MODULATED POWER FLUX AND LIGHT SYSTEMS
              WITH VISIBLE LIGHT COMPENSATION BETWEEN PULSES
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 1.     Field of the Invention
[1]       This invention generally relates to light disinfection systems and methods and, more
specifically to, room and area disinfection systems and methods utilizing pulsed light with
modulated power flux and light systems with visible light compensation between pulses.
[2]       The present application is divided from Australian patent application No. 2015317384,
the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
2.      Description of the Related Art
[3]       The following descriptions and examples are not admitted to be prior art by virtue of
their inclusion within this section.
[4]       Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly
incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be read and
considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent application or
patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons of conciseness.
[5]       Discussion of the background to the invention is intended to facilitate an understanding
of the present invention only. It should be appreciated that the discussion is not an
acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to was published, known or part
of the common general knowledge of the person skilled in the art in any jurisdiction as at the
priority date of the invention.
[61       Pulsed light sources are used in a variety of applications to generate recurrent pulses of
ultraviolet (UV) light. Examples of applications include but are not limited to polymer curing,
food sterilization, fluid and object disinfection, and room/area decontamination. Area/room
disinfection, in particular, is increasingly becoming an application of interest as pulsed UV light
as been shown to significantly reduce the number of pathogenic microorganisms in an area/room
                                                     1

in a short period of time. In particular, pulsed UV light has been shown to deactivate and, in
some cases, kill microorganisms on objects and surfaces in a room/area at distances within
approximately 3 meters from a UV light source, depending on factors such as reflectivity and
complexity of objects in the room. In addition, pulsed UV light has been shown to reduce the
number of pathogenic microorganisms within a room/area to a level considered much less
harmful to human health in less than approximately 5 minutes. Examples of area/room
disinfection applications are those used in hospitals and those used in agricultural operations,
such as for breeding and/or farming animals.
[7]        Many studies suggest germicidal efficacy for microorganism deactivation is chiefly due
to the dose of ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation subtype C (UVC) light applied as well as
efficacy in the ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation subtype B (UVB), or the dose of energy
within the wavelengths of 200 and 320 nanometers. This efficacy is determined by measuring
quantum yield or the number of germicidal actions taking place per incident photon arriving on a
microorganism. Conventional uses of pulsed UV light for UV sanitation of foods generally rely
on a high level of power per pulse to maximize UVC dose, specifically such that the UV light
may penetrate into crevices or pores of a food's surface. UV curing and sintering processes also
utilize a relatively high level of power per pulse to maximize UV dose. In other applications
which utilize pulsed UV light to deactivate microorganisms, such as wastewater disinfection, a
relatively low pulse power may be used but at a relatively high frequency in order to maximize
UVC dose for a given period of time. In particular, it has been determined that pulse power and
pulse frequency each have an effect on UVC dose (however not necessarily a proportional
effect), but have an inverse relationship relative to each other (i.e., the higher the power per
pulse, the lower the pulse frequency and vice versa) and, thus, each can be varied depending on
the needs of the application.
[81        Area/room disinfection applications utilizing pulse UV light, however, induce
limitations to which pulse power and pulse frequency may be optimized. In particular,
area/room disinfection processes differ from other pulsed UV light processes (e.g., curing,
sintering, food sanitization and wastewater treatment processes) in that the UV light must be
transmitted a relatively long distance (e.g., up to 3 meters from a UV source). Due to the
                                                   2

inverse-square law, conventional area/room disinfection applications utilizing pulsed UV light
are generally limited to using a relatively high level of power per pulse to insure a sufficient dose
of UVC is transmitted across a room/area. In order to maximize the UVC dose generated,
conventional area/room disinfection applications utilizing pulse UV light use a relatively low
pulse frequency (e.g., less than approximately 2 Hz). Despite the compromise of a relatively low
pulse frequency, an area/room disinfection device utilizing pulse UV light may be limited in the
power level it can generate for a pulse due to size limitations of the device. In particular, it is
often preferred for area/room disinfection devices to be readily portable such that they may be
moved to multiple rooms of a building and, thus, the size of the pulsed lamp and the power
supply used to operate it may be limited. Other applications of pulsed UV applications (e.g.,
curing, sintering, food sanitization and wastewater treatment processes) are generally not
designed for portability and, thus, are often not limited to the amount of UV light it can generate.
[91       Furthermore, conventional area/room disinfection applications utilizing pulse UV light
are generally limited to frequencies less than 2 Hz to the keep the pulse frequency from
potentially inducing seizures (the range of which is generally considered to be 3-60 Hz). In
particular, although area/room disinfection utilizing pulsed UV light is typically performed by an
automated device in a vacated room/area to limit or prevent exposure of UV light, some
rooms/areas may not block the visible light generated from the disinfection device. In order to
limit exposure of the intensity and/or pulse rate of pulsed light, provisions are often used to
shield transmission of visible light from the room/area, such as blocking windows of a room or
shielding gaps at the top and/or bottom of a room divider. Such shielding provisions, however,
may not block all light from all areas/rooms and, thus, the pulse frequency of an area/room
disinfection device utilizing pulsed UV light may generally be less limited to 2 Hz or less for
safety considerations.
[10]      In view of the disclosure of germicidal efficacy of pulsed UV light being chiefly
dependent on overall UVC dose and the aforementioned restrictions of area/room disinfection
devices which use pulse UV light, the efficiency and efficacy of conventional area/room
disinfection devices utilizing pulse UV light have been limited. Accordingly, it would be
                                                   3

beneficial to develop methods and systems for increasing the efficiency and efficacy of
area/room disinfection devices utilizing pulse UV light.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[11]       The following description of various embodiments of apparatuses is not to be construed
in any way as limiting the subject matter of the appended claims.
[12]       According to a first principal aspect, there is provided a disinfection apparatus,
comprising:
           a germicidal pulsed light source arranged within the disinfection apparatus such that
                 germicidal light generated from the germicidal pulsed light source is projected
                 exterior to the disinfection apparatus;
          power regulator circuitry for applying a trigger voltage to the germicidal pulsed light
                 source at a set frequency greater than approximately 3 Hz;
         power supply circuitry;
         one or more electrical charge storage devices coupled to the power supply circuitry and to
                 the germicidal pulsed light source;
         pulse duration circuitry coupled between the one or more electrical charge storage
                 devices and the germicidal pulsed light source;
         an occupancy sensor for determining presence of an individual in a region extending at
                 least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus;
         a processor; and
         program instructions executable by the processor for inhibiting and terminating the
                 generation of light from the germicidal pulsed light source upon the occupancy
                 sensor detecting presence of an individual.
     [131        Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises wheels to affect
         portability of the disinfection apparatus.
                                                    4

[141          Optionally, the program instructions are further executable by the processor for
     receiving data regarding the characteristics of a space in which the disinfection apparatus
     is to be operated.
[15]         According to a second principal aspect, there is provided a disinfection apparatus,
     comprising:
             a germicidal pulsed light source arranged within the disinfection apparatus such
                     that germicidal light generated from the germicidal pulsed light source is
                     projected exterior to the disinfection apparatus;
             power regulator circuitry for applying a trigger voltage to the germicidal pulsed
                     light source at a set frequency greater than approximately 3 Hz;
             power supply circuitry;
             one or more electrical charge storage devices coupled to the power supply
                     circuitry and to the germicidal pulsed light source;
             pulse duration circuitry coupled between the one or more electrical charge storage
                     devices and the germicidal pulsed light source; and
             wheels to affect portability of the disinfection apparatus.
[161         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises:
             an occupancy sensor for determining presence of an individual in a region
                     extending at least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus;
             a processor; and
             program instructions executable by the processor for inhibiting and terminating
                     the generation of light from the germicidal pulsed light source upon the
                     occupancy sensor detecting presence of an individual.
[17]         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises:
             a processor; and
             program instructions executable by the processor for receiving data regarding the
                       characteristics of a space in which the disinfection apparatus is to be
                       operated.
                                                 5

[181         Optionally, the one or more electrical charge storage devices and the pulse
     duration circuitry are configured to discharge a set amount of stored energy in a set
     amount of time such that energy flux of ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between
    200 nm and 320 nm generated at the germicidal pulsed light source is between
     approximately 20 J/m 2 and approximately 1500 J/m 2
[19]         Optionally, the one or more electrical charge storage devices and the pulse
     duration circuitry are configured to discharge a set amount of stored energy in a set
     amount of time such that energy flux of ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between
    200 nm and 320 nm generated at the germicidal pulsed light source is between
     approximately 0.8 MW/m 2 and approximately 5.0 MW/m2.
[20]         Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is a polychromatic germicidal light
     source.
[21]         Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is a xenon discharge lamp.
[22]         Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source has an exterior surface area
    between approximately 50 cm 2 and approximately 250 cm 2.
[231         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises a housing surrounding the
    germicidal pulsed light source, wherein a sidewall of the housing is transparent to
    ultraviolet light, and wherein the germicidal pulsed light source and the housing are
     arranged in the disinfection apparatus such that ultraviolet light emitted from the
    germicidal pulsed light source and transmitted through the housing is projected exterior
    to the disinfection apparatus.
[24]         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises:
                     a gas inlet disposed at a first end of the housing; and
                     a gas outlet disposed at a second end of the housing opposing the first end.
                                                 6

[251         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises an ozone reducing device
     disposed in proximity to the gas outlet.
[261         Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is arranged lengthwise substantially
     perpendicular to a horizontal plane of the disinfection apparatus.
[27]         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus is void of an opaque component 360
     around an elongated portion of the germicidal pulsed light source such that light emitted
     from the germicidal pulsed light source encircles the disinfection apparatus at least 1
     meter from the disinfection apparatus.
[281         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus comprises an actuator for moving the
     germicidal pulsed light source within the disinfection apparatus.
[29]         Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source generates ultraviolet light and
     visible light, wherein the disinfection apparatus further comprises a visible light source
     distinct from the germicidal pulsed light source, and wherein the visible light source and
     the germicidal pulsed light source comprise exterior surface areas within approximately
     20% of each other.
[301         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency greater than approximately 20 Hz.
[311         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency greater than approximately 40 Hz.
[32]         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency greater than approximately 60 Hz.
[331         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency greater than approximately 80 Hz.
[34]         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency greater than approximately 100 Hz.
                                                7

     [351         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency between approximately 55 Hz and
          approximately 80 Hz.
     [361         Optionally, the set frequency is a frequency between approximately 3 Hz and
          approximately 50 Hz.
     [37]         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises a battery connected to the
          power supply circuitry.
     [381         Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises a power cord and/or a
          power socket inlet for connecting the power supply circuitry to a mains alternating
          current power supply of a building, wherein the power supply circuitry comprises:
                   a step-up transformer for increasing alternating current received via the power
                               cord and/or the power socket inlet; and
                   a rectifier for converting alternating current received from the step-up
                               transformer into direct current.
[391        According to third principal aspect, there is provided a disinfection apparatus,
comprising:
          a germicidal pulsed light source arranged within the disinfection apparatus such that
                  germicidal light generated from the germicidal pulsed light source is projected
                  exterior to the disinfection apparatus;
          power regulator circuitry for applying a trigger voltage to the germicidal pulsed light
                  source at a set frequency greater than approximately 20 Hz;
         power supply circuitry;
          one or more electrical charge storage devices coupled to the power supply circuitry and to
                 the germicidal pulsed light source;
         pulse duration circuitry coupled between the one or more electrical charge storage
                 devices and the germicidal pulsed light source, wherein the one or more electrical
                 charge storage devices and the pulse duration circuitry are configured to discharge
                 a set amount of stored energy in a set amount of time such that energy flux of
                                                     8

                ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200 nm and 320 nm generated at
                the germicidal pulsed light source is between approximately 20 J/m 2 and
                approximately 1000 J/m 2;
        an occupancy sensor for determining presence of an individual in a region extending at
                 least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus;
        a processor; and
        program instructions executable by the processor for inhibiting and terminating the
                 generation of light from the germicidal pulsed light source upon the occupancy
                 sensor detecting presence of an individual.
[40]      Optionally, the power regulator circuitry is for applying trigger voltages at a frequency
greater than approximately 40 Hz.
[41]      Optionally, the power regulator circuitry is for applying trigger voltages at a frequency
greater than approximately 60 Hz.
[42]      Optionally, the power regulator circuitry is for applying trigger voltages at a frequency
between approximately 55 Hz and approximately 80 Hz.
[431      Optionally, the one or more electrical charge storage devices and the pulse duration
circuitry are configured to discharge a set amount of stored energy in a set amount of time such
that energy flux of ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200 nm and 320 nm
generated at the germicidal pulsed light source is between approximately 20 J/m 2 and
approximately 500 J/m 2.
[44]      Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source has an exterior surface area between
approximately 50 cm 2 and approximately 250 cm 2 .
[45]      Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is a polychromatic germicidal light
source.
                                                   9

[461      Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is a xenon discharge lamp.
[47]      Optionally, the program instructions are further executable by the processor for
receiving data regarding the characteristics of an enclosed space in which the disinfection
apparatus is to be operated.
[481      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises:
        a housing surrounding the germicidal pulsed light source, wherein the sidewalls of the
                housing are transparent to ultraviolet light, and wherein the germicidal pulsed
                light source and the housing are arranged in the disinfection apparatus such that
                ultraviolet light emitted from the germicidal pulsed light source and transmitted
                through the housing is projected exterior to the disinfection apparatus;
        a gas inlet disposed at a first end of the housing; and
        a gas outlet disposed at a second end of the housing opposing the first end.
[49]      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises an ozone filter disposed in
proximity to the gas outlet.
[50]      Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is arranged lengthwise substantially
perpendicular to a horizontal plane of the disinfection apparatus.
[51]      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus is void of an opaque component 360o around an
elongated portion of the germicidal pulsed light source such that light emitted from the
germicidal pulsed light source encircles the disinfection apparatus at least 1 meter from the
disinfection apparatus.
[52]      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises wheels to affect portability of
the disinfection apparatus.
[531      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus comprises an actuator for moving the germicidal
pulsed light source within the disinfection apparatus.
                                                    10

[541      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises a battery connected to the
power supply circuitry.
[55]      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises a power cord and/or a power
socket inlet comprising the support structure for connecting to a mains alternating current power
supply of a building, wherein the power supply circuitry comprises:
        a step-up transformer for increasing alternating current received via the power cord
                 and/or the power socket inlet; and
        a rectifier for converting alternating current received from the step-up transformer into
                 direct current.
[561      Optionally, the germicidal light pulsed source generates ultraviolet light and visible
light, wherein the disinfection apparatus further comprises a visible light source distinct from the
germicidal pulsed light source, and wherein the visible light source and the germicidal light
source comprise exterior surface areas within approximately 20% of each other.
[57]      According to a fourth principal aspect, there is provided a method for reducing bacterial
contamination on surfaces in an enclosed space which is suitable for human occupancy, wherein
the method comprises:
        generating pulses of light at a frequency greater than approximately 20 Hz from a
                 germicidal light source of a disinfection apparatus that is arranged in an enclosed
                 space which is suitable for human occupancy; and
        projecting the pulses of light to surfaces in the enclosed space at least 1.0 meter from the
                 disinfection apparatus, wherein the pulses of light generated by the germicidal
                 light source comprise a pulse duration and an energy flux sufficient to generate a
                 power flux between approximately 200 W/m 2 and approximately 5000 W/m 2 of
                 ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200 nm and 320 nm at the
                 surfaces.
                                                   11

[581       Optionally, the method further comprises inhibiting or terminating operation of the
disinfection apparatus based on a detection signal from an occupancy sensor comprising the
disinfection apparatus.
[59]       Optionally, the step of projecting the pulses of light comprises projecting the pulses of
light directly to surfaces in the enclosed space at least 2.0 meters from the disinfection apparatus.
[601       Optionally, the step of generating the pulses of light comprises generating the pulses of
light at a frequency greater than approximately 40 Hz.
[611       Optionally, the step of generating the pulses of light comprises generating the pulses of
light at a frequency greater than approximately 60 Hz.
[62]       Optionally, the step of generating the pulses of light comprises generating the pulses of
light at a frequency between approximately 55 Hz and approximately 80 Hz.
[631       Optionally, the step of generating the pulses of light comprises generating the pulses of
light at a frequency greater than approximately 80 Hz.
[64]       Optionally, the pulses of light generated by the germicidal light source comprise a pulse
duration and an energy flux sufficient to generate a power flux between approximately 200
W/m2 and approximately 2500 W/m2 of ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200
nm and 320 nm at the surfaces.
[65]       Optionally, the pulses of light generated by the germicidal light source comprise a pulse
duration and an energy flux sufficient to generate a power flux between approximately 200
W/m2 and approximately 1000 W/m2 of ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200
nm and 320 nm at the surfaces.
                                                   12

[661       Optionally, the method further comprises automatically moving the germicidal light
source relative to a support structure of the disinfection apparatus during the steps of generating
and projecting the pulses of light.
[67]       Optionally, the method further comprises automatically moving the disinfection
apparatus during the steps of generating and projecting the pulses of light.
[681       Optionally, the germicidal light source is a polychromatic germicidal light source.
[691       Optionally, the germicidal light source generates ultraviolet light and visible light,
wherein the method further comprises generating pulses of light from a visible light source
distinct from the germicidal light source such that combined projections of visible light from the
visible light source and the germicidal light source produce a continuous stream of visible light
or a collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency greater than 50 Hz.
[70]       According to a fifth principal aspect, there is provided a method for disinfecting
surfaces, comprising:
        generating pulses of light from a germicidal light source, wherein the pulses of light from
                 the germicidal light source comprise germicidal light and visible light; and
        generating pulses of light from a visible light source that is distinct from the germicidal
                 light source, wherein projections of visible light from the visible light source and
                 projections of visible light from the germicidal light source produce a continuous
                 stream of visible light or a collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency
                 greater than 60 Hz.
[71]       Optionally, projections of visible light from the visible light source and projections of
visible light from the germicidal light source produce a continuous stream of visible light or a
collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency greater than 60 Hz.
                                                    13

[721       Optionally, projections of visible light from the visible light source and projections of
visible light from the germicidal light source produce a continuous stream of visible light or a
collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency greater than 90 Hz.
[731       Optionally, the step of generating pulses of light from the germicidal light source
comprises generating the pulses of light at a set frequency, and wherein the step of generating
pulses of light from the visible light source comprises generating the pulses of light at the set
frequency but with a phase difference relative to the generation of the pulses of light from the
germicidal light source.
[74]       Optionally, the step of generating pulses of light from the germicidal light source
comprises generating the pulses of light at a frequency between approximately 3 Hz and
approximately 50 Hz.
[75]       Optionally, the pulses of light from the visible light source comprises an average
intensity between approximately 90% and approximately 110% of an average visible light
intensity of the pulses of light from the germicidal light source.
[761       Optionally, the method comprises further projecting the continuous stream of visible
light or the collective stream of visible light into an air space exterior to a disinfection apparatus
comprising the germicidal light source and the visible light source and directly to a surface
which is more than approximately 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus.
[77]       Optionally, the method comprises further projecting the continuous stream of visible
light or the collective stream of visible light into a partitioned area of at least approximately 4
m3.
[781       Optionally, the germicidal light source is a polychromatic light source.
[79]       According to a sixth principal aspect, there is provided a disinfection apparatus,
comprising:
                                                    14

        a germicidal pulsed light source configured to emit germicidal light and visible light;
        power regulator circuitry for applying a trigger voltage at a set frequency to the
                germicidal pulsed light source;
        a visible light source distinct from the germicidal light source, wherein the visible light
                 source and the germicidal light source comprise exterior surface areas within
                 approximately 20% of each other; and
        supply circuitry configured to send electrical current to the visible light lamp sufficient to
                 cause the visible light lamp to generate light.
[801      Optionally, the power regulator circuitry is configured to apply trigger voltages at a set
frequency between approximately 3 Hz and approximately 50 Hz.
[811      Optionally, the supply circuitry is configured to send the electrical current to the visible
light lamp at the set frequency but with a phase difference relative to the applied trigger voltage.
[82]      Optionally, the supply circuitry is configured to send electrical current to the visible
light lamp to continuously operate the visible light lamp between and during projections of light
generated at the germicidal pulsed light source.
[831      Optionally, the visible light lamp is configured to generate visible light at an intensity
greater than a visible light intensity of the pulses of light generated by the germicidal pulsed light
source.
[84]      Optionally, the visible light lamp is configured to generate visible light with an average
intensity between approximately 90% and approximately 110% of an average visible light
intensity of the light pulses generated from the germicidal light source.
[85]      Optionally, the disinfection apparatus further comprises an optical filter configured to
attenuate at least a majority amount of visible light emitted from the germicidal pulsed light
source.
                                                   15

[861       Optionally, the disinfection apparatus is void of an optical filter to attenuate visible
light emitted from the germicidal pulsed light source.
[87]       Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is a polychromatic pulsed light source.
[881       Optionally, the germicidal pulsed light source is a xenon discharge lamp.
[891       Embodiments of a method for reducing bacterial contamination on surfaces in an
enclosed space which is suitable for human occupancy includes generating pulses of light at a
frequency greater than approximately 20 Hz from a germicidal light source of a disinfection
apparatus that is arranged in the enclosed space and projecting the pulses of light to surfaces in
the enclosed space at least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus. The pulses of light
generated by the germicidal light source comprise a pulse duration and an energy flux sufficient
to generate a power flux between approximately 200 W/m 2 and approximately 5000 W/m 2 of
ultraviolet light in the wavelength range between 200 nm and 320 nm at the surfaces. An
embodiment of an apparatus for performing such a method includes a germicidal light source
arranged within the apparatus such that germicidal light generated from the germicidal light
source is projected exterior to the apparatus. The apparatus further includes circuitry configured
to generate pulses of light from the germicidal light source at a frequency greater than
approximately 20 Hz.
[90]       Other embodiments of a method for disinfecting surfaces includes generating pulses of
light from a germicidal light source, wherein the pulses of light from the germicidal light source
comprise germicidal light and visible light and generating pulses of light from a visible light
source that is distinct from the germicidal light source. The projections of visible light from the
visible light source and projections of visible light from the germicidal light source produce a
continuous stream of visible light or a collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency
greater than 60 Hz. An embodiment of a disinfection apparatus for performing such a method
includes a germicidal light source configured to emit germicidal light and visible light and pulse
circuitry configured to generate pulses of light from the germicidal light source at a set
frequency. The apparatus further includes a visible light lamp distinct from the germicidal
                                                   16

pulsed light source and additional circuitry configured to cause the visible light lamp to generate
light.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[91]      Various advantages of the invention will become apparent upon reading the following
detailed description and upon reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[92]      Fig. 1 illustrates an example of a room/area disinfection device;
[931      Fig. 2 illustrates an example of a cooling system which may be used for the light
sources of the apparatuses disclosed herein;
[94]      Fig. 3 illustrates an example of a different room/area disinfection device;
[95]      Figs. 4 and 5 illustrates examples of enclosed spaces;
[961      Fig. 6 illustrates target ranges of energy flux and power flux of ultraviolet light between
approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm for a lamp surface and distances 1.0, 2.0 and
3.0 meters away from the lamp;
[97]      Fig. 7 illustrates a graph showing disinfection efficacy of five different trigger voltage
frequencies over time at a surface approximately 2 meters away from a germicidal pulsed light
source;
[981      Fig. 8 illustrates an example of an apparatus having a germicidal light source and a
separate visible light source; and
[99]      Fig. 9 illustrates a diagram of options for generating light at each of light sources of the
apparatus depicted in Fig. 8.
                                                   17

[1001      While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms,
specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be
described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the drawings and detailed description
thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed, but on the
contrary, the intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents and alternatives falling within
the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[101]      Methods and apparatuses for disinfecting surfaces are provided which generate pulses
of light from germicidal light sources at a frequency of greater than approximately 3 Hz.      In
particular, methods and apparatuses are provided which generate pulses of ultraviolet light at a
frequency greater than approximately 20 Hz with significantly lower power flux than pulses of
light generated from conventional disinfection apparatuses. Such methods and apparatuses are
described in more detail below in reference to Figs. 1-7. In addition, methods and apparatuses
are provided which generate pulses of light including ultraviolet light and visible light from one
lamp at a frequency between approximately 3 Hz and approximately 60 Hz and further emit
visible light from a separate lamp to insure visible light emitted by the two lamps produces a
continuous stream of visible light or a collective stream of visible light pulsed at a frequency
greater than 50 Hz. Such methods and apparatuses are described in more detail below in
reference to Figs. 8 and 9. As will be set forth in more detail below, the apparatuses and
components described herein are not limited to the depictions in the drawings. Several other
configurations of apparatuses and components may be considered. Furthermore, it is noted that
the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale.
[102]      Each of the methods and apparatuses described herein includes use of a germicidal light
source. The term "germicidal light source" as used herein refers to a light source designed to
generate and emit germicidal light, i.e., light which is capable of deactivating or killing
microorganisms, particularly disease carrying and/or disease producing microorganisms (a.k.a.,
germs). The term "kill," as used herein, means to cause the death of an organism. The term
                                                   18

"deactivate," as used herein, means to render an organism unable to reproduce without killing.
The germicidal light sources considered for the methods and apparatuses described herein may
be configured to generate any type of germicidal light. Ranges of light which have been
determined to be germicidal include ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and
approximately 320 nm and visible violet-blue light (also referred to as high-intensity narrow
spectrum (HINS) light) between approximately 400 nm and approximately 470 nm. Examples of
germicidal light sources which may be configured to generate ultraviolet light and/or HINS light
include discharge lamps, light emitting diode (LED) solid state devices, and excimer lasers.
HINS lamps are generally constructed of LEDs. In some cases, the germicidal light sources
considered for the methods and apparatuses described herein may be polychromatic in that they
generate light of more than one wavelength. In some further embodiments, the germicidal light
sources considered for the methods and apparatuses described herein may generate light which is
not germicidal, such as but not limited to visible light, but such capability will not deter from the
reference of the light sources being germicidal.
[103]     In any case, the germicidal light sources considered for the apparatuses described
herein may be of any size and shape, depending on the design specifications of the apparatuses.
Lamps having exterior surfaces between approximately 50 cm 2 and approximately 250 cm 2 may
be particularly appropriate for the methods and apparatuses described herein since they are
directed to room/area disinfection processes, but lamps with smaller or larger exterior surfaces
may be used.
[104]     As noted above, the methods and apparatuses described herein generate recurrent
pulses of light from germicidal light sources at frequencies greater than approximately 3 Hz. As
such, the methods and apparatus described herein include configurations by which to generate
pulses of light from germicidal light sources. For example, the methods and apparatuses
described herein may utilize a pulsed germicidal light source and applicable circuitry for
triggering a stored amount of electrical energy for a set pulse duration to the pulsed germicidal
light source. An example of an apparatus with such a configuration of components is described
in more detail below in reference to Fig. 1. The term "pulsed germicidal light source" as used
herein refers to a lamp which is designed to only generate and emit recurrent pulses of
                                                  19

germicidal light (i.e., it cannot generate and emit continuous streams of germicidal light). Such
lamps differ from "continuous germicidal light sources" which are configured to generate and
emit continuous streams of germicidal light upon application of continuous current thereto. In
some cases, the methods and apparatuses described herein may utilize a continuous germicidal
light source and applicable circuitry for turning the continuous germicidal light source on and off
at a set frequency such that the continuous germicidal light source may generate and emit
recurrent pulses of germicidal light. An example of an apparatus with such a configuration of
components is described in more detail below in reference to Fig. 3. To accommodate both types
of light sources for the methods and apparatuses described herein, the methods and apparatuses
described herein may be referred to as methods, apparatuses, devices or systems which generate
recurrent pulses of germicidal light.
[105]      As noted above, examples of germicidal light sources which may be configured to
generate ultraviolet light and/or HINS light include discharge lamps. A discharge lamp as used
herein refers to a lamp that generates light by means of an internal electrical discharge between
electrodes in a gas. The term encompasses gas-discharge lamps, which generate light by sending
an electrical discharge through an ionized gas (i.e., a plasma). The term also encompasses
surface-discharge lamps, which generate light by sending an electrical discharge along a surface
of a dielectric substrate in the presence of a gas, producing a plasma along the substrate's
surface. As such, the discharge lamps which may be considered for the germicidal light sources
described herein may include gas-discharge lamps as well as surface-discharge lamps.
Discharge lamps may be further characterized by the type of gas/es employed and the pressure at
which they are operated. The discharge lamps which may be considered for the methods and
apparatuses described herein include those of low pressure, medium pressure and high intensity.
In addition, the gas/es employed may include helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon, nitrogen,
oxygen, hydrogen, water vapor, carbon dioxide, mercury vapor, sodium vapor and any
combination thereof. In some embodiments, various additives and/or other substances may be
included in the gas/es. In any case, the discharge lamps considered for the germicidal sources
described herein may include those which generate continuous light and those which generate
recurrent pulses of light, the latter of which are often referred to as flashtubes or flashlamps.
                                                   20

[106]     A commonly used gas-discharge lamp used to produce continuous light is a mercury
vapor lamp, which may be considered for some of the germicidal sources described herein. It
emits a strong peak of light at 253.7 nm, which is considered particularly applicable for
germicidal disinfection and, thus, is commonly referenced for ultraviolet germicidal irradiation
(UVGI). A commonly used flashlamp which may be considered for the disinfection apparatuses
described herein is a xenon flashtube. A xenon flashtube generates a broad spectrum of light
from ultraviolet to infrared (including visible light) and, thus, provides ultraviolet light in the
entire spectrum that has been disclosed to be germicidal (i.e., between approximately 200 nm
and approximately 320 nm). In addition, a xenon flashtube can provide relatively sufficient
intensity at wavelength ranges which have been determined to be optimally germicidal (i.e.,
between approximately 229 nm and approximately 231 nm and between approximately 260 nm
and approximately 265 nm). Moreover, a xenon flashtube generates an extreme amount of heat,
which can further contribute to the deactivation and killing of microorganisms.
[107]     As noted above, a surface-discharge lamp may also be considered for some of the
disinfection apparatuses described herein. Similar to a xenon flashtube, a surface-discharge lamp
produces ultraviolet light in the entire spectrum that has been disclosed to be germicidal (i.e.,
between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm). In contrast, however, surface
discharge lamps operate at higher energy levels per pulse and, thus, greater UV efficiency, as
well as offer longer lamp life as compared to xenon flashtubes. It is noted that the
aforementioned descriptions and comparisons of a mercury-vapor lamp, a xenon flashlamp and a
surface discharge lamp in no way restrict the disinfection apparatuses described herein to include
such lamps. Rather, the aforementioned descriptions and comparisons are merely provided to
offer factors which one skilled in the art may contemplate when selecting a discharge lamp for a
disinfection apparatus, particularly depending on the objective and application of the apparatus.
[108]     Turning to the drawings, Fig. 1 illustrates an example of an apparatus configured to
generate pulses of ultraviolet light at frequencies greater than approximately 20 Hz with
significantly lower power flux relative to pulses of light generated from conventional
disinfection apparatuses. In particular, Fig. 1 shows apparatus 20 with base 24 with a number of
components to affect such functionalities for germicidal pulsed light source 22, the specifics of
                                                  21

which will be described in more detail below. More specifically, Fig. 1 illustrates base 24
including energy storage element/s 26, trigger voltage circuitry 28, power circuitry 30, pulse
duration circuitry 32, program instructions 34, processor 36, and optional battery 38. As further
shown in Fig. 1, apparatus 20 may include additional components, such as remote user interface
40, power cord 42, wheels 44 and occupancy sensor 46. It is noted that placement of the noted
components are not restricted to the depiction of Fig. 1, but rather the components may be
disposed at any location to affect the functionality they impart to apparatus 20. As such, the
components shown in base 24 in Fig. 1 need not be disposed within base 24 necessarily.
Furthermore, power cord 42, wheels 44 and occupancy sensor 46 may be disposed at other
locations of apparatus 20. In any case, apparatus 20 may include additional or alternative
components that are not shown in Fig. 1, such as but not limited to a user interface on the
apparatus (in addition or alternative to remote user interface 40), a handle to aid in portability of
the apparatus, a power socket inlet (in addition or alternative to power cord 42) and/or additional
sensors, such as additional occupancy sensors and light sensors.
[109]     Regardless of their location within apparatus 20, the electrical components of apparatus
20 are in general in electrical communication with each other via wired and/or wireless
connections to affect operations of the apparatus. For instance, power circuitry 30 is electrically
coupled to energy storage element/s 26, trigger voltage circuitry 28, and pulse duration circuitry
32 to generate a pulse of light from germicidal pulsed light source 22 and power circuitry 30 is
further electrically coupled to processor 36, remote user interface 40 (and/or a user interface on
the apparatus), and occupancy sensor 46 to affect the commencement and termination of
operations of the apparatus. In addition, processor 36 is electrically coupled to program
instructions 34 such that the program instructions may be executed by the processor and, in
addition, processor 30 is electrically coupled to remote user interface 40 (and/or a user interface
on the apparatus) and/or any sensors of apparatus 20 to affect operations of germicidal pulsed
light source 22 in accordance with program instructions 34. Other electrical connections may be
included in the apparatus 20 between any of the noted components and other components of
apparatus 20 to affect operations thereof.
                                                 22

[110]     As noted above, apparatus 20 includes a number of components in base 24 to affect the
generation pulsed light from pulsed germicidal light source 22 at a frequency greater than
approximately 20 Hz with significantly lower power flux relative to pulses of light generated
from conventional disinfection apparatuses. In particular, base 24 includes trigger voltage
circuitry 28 which is configured to apply a sufficient voltage at a set frequency by which to
activate pulsed germicidal light source 22 to generate recurrent pulses of light. In addition, base
24 includes energy storage element/s 26 and pulse duration circuitry 32 respectively configured
to discharge a set amount of stored energy in a set amount of time to pulsed germicidal light
source 22. The components making up trigger voltage circuitry 28, energy storage element/s 26
and pulse duration circuitry 32 and the operation incurred by such features will generally depend
on design of the germicidal light source. For example, a flashlamp includes one or more
capacitors for energy storage element/s and includes one or more inductors for its pulse duration
circuitry 32. In addition, the trigger voltage in a flashlamp serves to ionize the gas in the
flashlamp and cause the capacitor/s to discharge their accumulated energy thereto for the
duration governed by the inductor/s. In any case, the voltage levels applied to trigger voltage
circuitry 28 and pulse duration circuitry 32 as well as to energy storage element/s 26 to
accumulate charge therein may generally depend on the design specifications (e.g., the desired
pulse frequency, pulse duration, pulse intensity, exterior surface area of pulsed germicidal light
source 22, among other parameters (in the context of pulsed light source design). Example
ranges are described in reference to Fig. 6 regarding the desired power fluxes shown therein.
[111]     As noted above, apparatus 20 configured to generate pulses of ultraviolet light at
frequencies greater than approximately 20 Hz. Such functionality is governed by trigger voltage
circuitry 28. In particular, trigger voltage circuitry 28 may be configured to apply a trigger
voltage at a frequency greater than 20 Hz to germicidal pulsed light source 22 and, in some
applications, frequencies greater than 40 Hz, greater than 50 Hz or even greater than 55 Hz may
be particularly suitable. In other embodiments, trigger voltage circuitry 28 may be configured to
apply a trigger voltage at a frequency greater than 60 Hz and, particularly between
approximately 60 Hz and approximately 100 Hz to germicidal pulsed light source 22. In
particular, it may be advantageous for trigger voltage circuitry 28 to apply a trigger voltage to
germicidal pulsed light source 22 at a frequency above the safety threshold for inducing seizures
                                                  23

(which is generally considered to be about 60 Hz). In yet further embodiments, it may be
advantageous for trigger voltage circuitry 28 to apply a trigger voltage to germicidal pulsed light
source 22 at a frequency slightly above the seizure inducing threshold for safety purposes (e.g.,
in light of variability of voltage draw from a mains alternating current power supply of a
building), such as a frequency of 65 Hz or greater.
[112]     In some cases, it may be advantageous for trigger voltage circuitry 28 to apply a trigger
voltage to germicidal pulsed light source 22 at a frequency at which light appears to be
continuous to the human eye. For example, light pulsed at frequencies of 60 Hz and greater
wherein the pulse durations are approximately 25 microseconds appears to be continuous to the
human eye. It is believed that the minimum frequency level to invoke the appearance of
continuous light to the human eye varies with the duration of the pulses, specifically the
minimum frequency level increases when pulse durations decrease and vice versa. Thus, the
frequency level to set a trigger voltage at to induce the appearance of continuous light to the
human eye may vary among applications, depending on the design specifications of the
germicidal pulsed light source, particularly the pulse duration. In yet further embodiments, a
frequency range of 60 Hz to 90 Hz may be beneficial for maximizing UVC dose from a
germicidal pulsed light source within a given period without causing excessive operational stress
on the discharge lamp. It is noted that for the development of the ideas provided herein, trigger
voltages of 67 Hz were repeatedly tested, but the scope of the ideas disclosed herein should not
be limited to such a frequency. Other exemplary ranges of frequencies greater than 20 Hz may
be considered, including those which exceed 100 Hz.
[113]     As noted above, apparatus 20 may include optional battery 38 connected to the power
supply circuitry, which may be used for supplying power to one or more components of the
apparatus. It is noted, however, given their large power requirements, it is generally
advantageous to power germicidal pulsed light source 22, energy storage elements 26, trigger
voltage circuitry 28 and pulse duration circuitry 32 from a mains alternating current power
supply of a building in which the apparatus is arranged via a power cord comprising the
apparatus or connected to a power socket inlet of the apparatus. In such cases, the power supply
circuitry may include a step-up transformer for increasing alternating current received via the
                                                  24

power cord and/or the power socket inlet and further a rectifier for converting alternating current
received from the step-up transformer into direct current for operation of the germicidal pulsed
light source. It is contemplated, however, that continuous germicidal light sources of some
apparatus may be powered by a battery since they have much lower power requirements. In such
cases, it may be possible for the apparatus to be void of a power cord and/or a power socket inlet
for connecting to a mains alternating current power supply of a building.
[114]      In some cases, pulsed germicidal light sources may generate a lot heat and, thus, may
need to be cooled during operation. The type of cooling system may include convection cooling,
forced air/gas cooling or liquid cooling, the selection of which may generally depend on the
design characteristics of the apparatus, particularly the power flux it is configured to generate.
An example of a forced air system is illustrated in Fig. 2 as an example for pulsed germicidal
light source 22 in Fig. 1. In particular, Fig. 2 illustrates pulsed germicidal light source 22
disposed within circumjacent barrier 50 between air inlet 52 and air outlet 54 with air inlet 52
having an air moving device 56 disposed in proximity thereto, in effect forming plenum 58
around pulsed germicidal light source 22. Circumj acent barrier 50 is made of a material
transparent to the germicidal light such that germicidal light generated by pulsed germicidal light
source 22 may be transmitted exterior to apparatus 20.
[115]      In some embodiments, circumjacent barrier 50 may include a material which attenuates
some or all visible light generated by pulsed germicidal light source 22 and or apparatus may
include additional circumjacent barrier of such material surrounding circumjacent barrier 50.
The inclusion of such a material in either of such cases may be beneficial when the intensity of
visible light generated by pulsed germicidal light source 22 is very high, particularly when it is
causes visual discomfort or distraction upon exposure. In other cases, however, when the
intensity of visible light generated by pulsed germicidal light source 22 is relatively low, it may
be advantageous to omit barrier around pulsed germicidal light source 22 that attenuates visible
light. In particular, a visible light filter could reduce the intensity of light in other ranges, such as
a germicidal range and, thus, reduce the power flux of the germicidal light emitted from
apparatus 20.
                                                     25

[116]      In any case, air moving device 56 draws air into plenum 58 through air inlet 52 and
discharges through air outlet 54. In an alternative embodiment, air moving device 56 may be
arranged in proximity to air outlet 54. In any case, air moving device 56 may be any device
configured to cause air to flow, including but not limited to a fan or a turbine. In cases in which
a turbine is used in the apparatuses described herein, the turbine may be used to supply power to
one or more components of the apparatuses, including any of the components described herein or
a battery of the apparatus. In any case, air inlet 52 may include a filter to remove particular
matter from an incoming air stream.
[117]      In some cases, air outlet 54 may include an ozone reducing device 60, such as a carbon
filter or a device which produces free radicals catalysts that covert ozone to diatomic oxygen. In
particular, ozone may, in some cases, be created as a byproduct from the use of pulsed
germicidal light source 22, specifically if the lamp generates ultraviolet light of wavelengths
shorter than approximately 240 nm since such a spectrum of UV light causes oxygen atoms of
oxygen molecules to dissociate, starting the ozone generation process. Ozone is a health and air
quality hazard and, thus, the release of it by devices is regulated. Also, ozone is an effective
germicidal agent and deodorizer and, thus, if the amount of ozone to be generated by pulsed
germicidal light source 22 is lower than the local/regional exposure limits for ozone, it may be
beneficial to exclude an ozone reducing device 60 from air outlet 56. In yet other cases, air
outlet 56 may have a portion with an ozone reducing device and a portion without an ozone
reducing device and further an air flow regulator to respectively route air through the different
portions depending on operating parameters and/or modes of disinfection processes employed by
apparatus 20. Examples of air outlets having such features are described in more detail in U.S.
Application Serial No. 14/790,827 filed July 2, 2015, which is incorporated herein by reference
as if set forth fully herein.
[118]      Regardless of whether apparatus 20 includes an ozone reducing device, apparatus 20
may, in some cases, include reflector at an elevation above pulsed germicidal light source 22 to
redirect light emitted from pulsed germicidal light source 22 downwardly. In particular, the
methods and apparatuses described herein may be particularly specific to room/area disinfection
and, thus, it may be advantageous to include a reflector for redirecting light from pulsed
                                                  26

germicidal light source 22 to a region exterior to the apparatus 20 and which is between
approximately 2 feet and approximately 4 feet from a floor of a room in which apparatus 20 is
arranged. In general, the region between approximately 2 feet and approximately 4 feet from a
floor of a room is considered a "high touch" region of a room since objects of frequent use are
generally placed in such a region. Examples of objects typically found in a high touch zone of a
room include but are not limited to desktops, keyboards, telephones, chairs, door and cabinet
handles, light switches and sinks. Examples of objects in high touch zones of hospital rooms
additionally or alternatively include beds, bedside tables, tray tables and intravenous stands. Due
to such a region being considered a high touch zone, it is generally considered the area of highest
probability to come in contact with germs and some studies indicate that the high touch zone
may be the area having the highest concentration of germs.
[119]     Fig. 2 illustrates an example of a reflector for apparatus 20 disposed at an elevation
above pulsed germicidal light source 22 for redirecting light emitted from the light source
downwardly to a region which is between approximately 2 feet and approximately 4 feet from a
floor of a room in which apparatus 20 is arranged, specifically annular reflector 62 around air
outlet 54. Other configurations (e.g., size, shape, angle, distance from pulsed germicidal light
source 22) of reflectors may be used and/or reflectors may be arranged at other locations within
apparatus 20 to aid in distributing light to areas of interest in a room, particularly distances 1 to 3
meters away from apparatus 20. Examples of area/room disinfection apparatuses having
reflectors with such function are disclosed in U.S. Application Serial Nos. 13/706,926 filed
December 6, 2012 and 13/708,208 filed December 7, 2012 as well as International Patent
Application No. PCT/US2014/059698 filed October 8, 2014, all of which are incorporated herein
by reference as if set forth fully herein.
[120]     Another configuration which characterizes the apparatuses described herein to
specifically affect room/area disinfection is that the germicidal light source arranged within the
apparatus such that germicidal light generated from the germicidal light source is projected
exterior to the apparatus. In some cases, a germicidal light source may be arranged lengthwise
substantially perpendicular to a horizontal plane of a support structure supporting one end of the
light source. In addition or alternatively, the apparatus may be void of an opaque component
                                                   27

3600 around an elongated portion of the germicidal light source such that light emitted from the
germicidal light source encircles the apparatus, such as shown for pulsed germicidal light source
22 in Figs. 1 and 22. Furthermore, some of apparatuses described herein may include an actuator
for moving its germicidal light source within the apparatus (such as with respect to a support
structure supporting the light source) to aid in the distribution of light in a room or area. In such
regard, the methods described herein may include automatically moving a germicidal light source
within apparatus while the germicidal light source is emitting light and/or in between pulses of
light. Another feature which characterizes the apparatuses described herein to specifically affect
room/area disinfection is have an occupancy sensor, such as a motion sensor, a thermal sensor or
a photo recognition sensor. In such cases, the methods described herein may include inhibiting
and/or terminating the generation of pulses of light from the germicidal light source upon making
a detection which is indicative of occupancy within the area/room in which the apparatus is
arranged.
[121]     Yet other features which may be included in the apparatuses described herein to
specifically affect room/area disinfection are those that affect portability of the apparatus, such as
wheels and/or a handle. In particular, is often preferred for area/room disinfection devices to be
readily portable such that they may be moved to multiple rooms of a building. In some
embodiments, the apparatuses described herein may include processor executable program
instructions for receiving data regarding characteristics of an enclosed space in which the
disinfection apparatus is to be operated. In general, the phrase "characteristics of an enclosed
space" as used herein refers to physical attributes as well as non-physical attributes of an
enclosed space. Non-physical attributes of an enclosed space include but are not necessarily
limited to identifiers used to reference an enclosed space (e.g., room number and/or room name)
and occupancy information regarding an enclosed space (e.g., infection information of a patient
previously occupying the space or a patient scheduled to occupy the space). Physical attributes
of an enclosed space include but are not necessarily limited to size and/or dimensions of the
enclosed space and/or the number, size, distances, locations, reflectivity and/or identification of
surfaces, objects and/or items within the enclosed space. In some cases, a physical attribute of
an enclosed space may be the identification of one or more pathological organisms and,
                                                    28

sometimes further the number or concentration of such organisms in the enclosed space, in a
particular region of the enclosed space, or on a particular surface in the enclosed space.
[122]      In any case, the data received regarding the characteristics of the enclosed space in
which the disinfection apparatus is to be operated may be utilized in a number of manners,
including but not limited to recordation or reporting purposes or setting one or more operational
parameters of the apparatus. In some embodiments, the apparatuses described herein may
include a means for automatically moving the apparatus. In some such cases, the apparatus may
include program instructions to move the apparatus along a predetermined route. In addition or
alternatively the apparatus may include program instructions to move the apparatus in
accordance with room characteristics of a room which have been analyzed via one or more
sensors of the apparatus, including sensors for mapping or modeling an area/room. Examples of
area/room disinfection apparatuses with some of the aforementioned program instructions are
disclosed in U.S. Application Serial No. 13/706,926 filed December 6, 2012, which is
incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein.
[123]      Other configurations which may aid in facilitating the apparatuses for room/area
disinfection may be considered. More specifically, the apparatuses described herein may be
configured (with the configurations noted above or with other configurations) to expose areas
and rooms as well as objects as a whole to germicidal light and, thus, may be specifically
configured to distribute light in a spacious manner to an ambient of a room in which the
disinfection apparatus is arranged. In addition, the apparatuses described herein may be
configured to distribute germicidal light to surfaces within a room or area that are greater than 1
meter or even 2 or 3 meters from a germicidal flashlamp. The apparatuses may be of any shape,
size, or configuration in which to achieve such objectives. Examples of area/room disinfection
apparatuses are disclosed in U.S. Application Serial Nos. 13/706,926 filed December 6, 2012 and
13/708,208 filed December 7, 2012; as well as International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2014/059698 filed October 8, 2014, all of which are incorporated herein by reference as
if set forth fully herein. Other configurations of area/room disinfection apparatuses, however,
may be employed for apparatuses described herein.
                                                  29

[124]      As used herein, the term "room/area disinfection" refers to the cleansing of a space
which is suitable for human occupancy so as to deactivate, destroy or prevent the growth of
disease-carrying microorganisms in the area. The phrase "a space which is suitable for human
occupancy" as used herein refers to a space in which an adult human being of average size may
comfortably occupy for at least a period of time to eat, sleep, work, lounge, partake in an
activity, or complete a task therein. In some cases, spaces suitable for human occupancy may be
bounded and include a door for entering and exiting the room. In other cases, a space suitable
for human occupancy may be an area with indeterminate boundaries. Examples of spaces which
are suitable for human occupancy include but are not limited to single patient rooms, multiple
occupancy patient rooms, bathrooms, walk-in closets, hallways, bedrooms, offices, operating
rooms, patient examination rooms, waiting and/or lounging areas and nursing stations. As used
herein, the term "enclosed space" refers to an area having its boundaries defined by barriers
blocking a vast majority or all germicidal light transmission exterior to the area.
[125]      Examples of enclosed spaces suitable for human occupancy in which the apparatuses
described herein may be used to conduct area/room disinfection processes are shown in Figs. 4
and 5. In particular, Fig. 4 illustrates operating or patient room 80 having door 82 closed and
having disinfection apparatus 84 disposed therein. In such cases, the walls and windows (if
applicable) of room 80 as well as door 82 serve as barriers defining the boundaries of room 80 to
form an enclosed space suitable for human occupancy. Although door 82 is shut to consider the
space enclosed, germicidal light may be transmitted around the periphery of the door if it is not
sealed. In such cases, a vast majority of germicidal light transmission is blocked from being
transmitted exterior to room 80 and, thus, is considered an enclosed space.
[126]      Fig. 5, on the other hand, illustrates multi-occupancy room 86 having door 88 open but
including partitioned area 90 sectioned off by room divider 92, such as a cubicle curtain. As
shown, partitioned area 90 includes one of the plurality of disinfection apparatus 94. In such
cases, the walls and windows (if applicable) of room 86 in partitioned area 90 as well as room
divider 92 serve as barriers defining the boundaries of partitioned area 90 to form an enclosed
space suitable for human occupancy. It is appreciated that room divider 92 may not fully extend
to the walls, ceiling, and/or the floor of room 86 and, thus, germicidal light may be transmitted
                                                   30

around room divider 92. In such cases, a vast majority of germicidal light transmission is
blocked from being transmitted exterior to partitioned area 90 and, thus, is considered an
enclosed space. In general, disinfection apparatuses 84 and 94 shown in Figs. 4 and 5 may
include any of the apparatuses disclosed herein. It is noted that the number, size, placement, and
portability of disinfection apparatuses 84 and 94 are not exclusive to the respective embodiments
of Figs. 4 and 5 showing a room as enclosed space and a partitioned section of a room as an
enclosed space. In particular, any of the apparatuses disclosed herein may be employed in any
enclosed space which is suitable for human occupancy.
[127]     As noted above, apparatus 20 in Fig. 1 is an example of an apparatus which may be
used to generate pulses of ultraviolet light at frequencies greater than approximately 20 Hz with
significantly lower power flux relative to pulses of light generated from conventional
disinfection apparatuses. Several other configurations of apparatuses may be considered for such
functionalities, one of which is depicted in Fig. 3. In particular, Fig. 3 illustrates apparatus 70
including a plurality of germicidal light sources 72 arranged in frame 74. In some cases, the
backside of apparatus 70 may include a backside panel spanning the areal dimension of frame 74
to prevent emission of germicide from the backside of apparatus 70. In other embodiments, the
backside of apparatus 70 may be open such that light may be emitted on either side of the
apparatus. In any case, apparatus 70 may be considered for use for area/room disinfection. In
some embodiments, apparatus 70 may be mountable on a wall or a ceiling. Alternatively,
apparatus 70 may be a standalone device.
[128]     In any case, the dimensions and shape of frame 74 may vary from that depicted in Fig.
3. More specifically, frame 74 is not limited to being rectangular and/or having the relatively
thin sidewalls depicted in Fig. 3. Furthermore, the orientation of apparatus 70 is not limited to its
longitudinal dimension being horizontal. Moreover, apparatus 70 is not limited to having
multiple cylindrical germicidal light sources orientated in the manner shown in Fig. 3. Rather,
apparatus 70 may include any number, size, shape and orientation of germicidal light sources.
Moreover, germicidal light sources 72 may include the same type of germicidal light source or
different types of germicidal light sources. In some cases, apparatus 70 may be configured to
move one or more of germicidal sources 72 to extend out of frame 74 to enhance distribution of
                                                   31

germicide/s generated therefrom into an ambient of the apparatus. An example configuration to
offer such an option may include retractable tracks extending out from frame 74 in alignment
with germicidal sources 72, along which the germicidal sources may be moved manually or by
an actuator.
[129]     In any case, apparatus 70 may include any of the features described in reference to
apparatus 20 of Fig. 1. In particular, apparatus 70 may include one or more of energy storage
element/s 26, trigger voltage circuitry 28, power circuitry 30, pulse duration circuitry 32,
program instructions 34, processor 36, optional battery 38, remote user interface 40, power cord
42, wheels 44, occupancy sensor 46, a user interface on the apparatus (in addition or alternative
to remote user interface 40), a handle to aid in portability of the apparatus, a power socket inlet
(in addition or alternative to power cord 42) and/or additional sensors, such as additional
occupancy sensors and light sensors. Such features are not shown in apparatus 70 to simplify the
drawing in Fig. 3. Furthermore, such features are not described in reference to apparatus 70 for
the sake of brevity.
[130]     Furthermore, apparatus 70 may include any of the cooling system features described in
reference to apparatus 20 of Fig. 1 and the specific embodiment of the forced air cooling system
described in reference to Fig. 2. For example, although not shown, apparatus 70 may include
any number of air moving devices, air inlets, and air outlets. In addition, the front side and
possibly the back side of apparatus 70 may include panels within frame 74 which are transparent
to ultraviolet light and, if desired, also opaque to visible light. In general, the air moving
device/s, air inlet/s, and air outlet/s may be arranged within any side of frame 74. In addition or
alternatively, air moving device/s may be arranged internal to frame 74, particularly but not
necessarily in alignment with air inlet/s or air outlet/s within the frame. In any case, air moving
device/s may be arranged upstream or downstream of an air stream induced through frame 44.
In some cases, apparatus 70 may include an air moving device disposed at one end of at least one
of germicidal sources 72 (and, in some cases, include an air moving device disposed at the end of
each of germicidal sources 72) to induce an air stream which flows substantially parallel with the
longitudinal dimension of the germicidal light sources, such as described for germicidal source
                                                   32

22 in reference to Fig. 2. In other cases, apparatus 70 may have air moving devices arranged to
induce an air stream that traverses germicidal sources 72.
[131]     As noted above, however, the apparatuses described herein may include several
different configurations and, thus, apparatus 70 may, in some cases, include different features
than apparatus 20 of Fig. 1. For example, germicidal light sources 72 may not be pulsed
germicidal light sources, but rather continuous germicidal light sources and, thus, apparatus 70
may not include energy storage element/s 26, trigger voltage circuitry 28, and pulse duration
circuitry 32. Instead, apparatus 70 may include circuitry for turning the continuous germicidal
light sources on and off at a set frequency (e.g., > 20 Hz) such that the continuous germicidal
light sources may generate and emit recurrent pulses of germicidal light.
[132]     As noted above, Figs. 1 and 3 depict examples of apparatuses configured to generate
pulses of ultraviolet light at frequencies greater than approximately 20 Hz with significantly
lower power flux relative to pulses of light generated from conventional disinfection apparatuses.
The term "power flux", as used herein, refers to the transmission rate of radiant energy at a given
surface per unit area. Synonymous terms for power flux include "irradiance", "power density"
and "radiation intensity" and, thus, the terms may be used interchangeably herein. The term
"energy flux", as used herein, refers to the amount of radiant energy at a given surface per unit
area. A synonymous term for energy flux is "radiant energy" and, thus, the terms may be used
interchangeably herein.
[133]     As noted above, many studies suggest germicidal efficacy for microorganism
deactivation is chiefly due to the dose of ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation subtype C (UVC)
light applied, or the dose of energy within the wavelengths of 200 and 320 nanometers. In light
thereof, studies directed to analyzing energy requirements for germicidal efficacy generally focus
on the power flux or energy flux of ultraviolet light and, in some cases, the power flux or energy
flux of UVC. In particular, some studies teach that a minimum power flux of ultraviolet
radiation is needed to achieve sufficient germicidal efficacy. Other studies teach additional
parameters need to be met in addition to power flux, such as particular ratios of peak, average
and root mean square power of ultraviolet radiation and/or a contrived relationship correlating
                                                   33

energy discharged to the lamp, surface area of the lamp and pulse duration. Yet other studies tie
in pulse frequency requirements in addition to power flux, such as specifying a minimum pulse
frequency or a required range of pulse frequency.
[134]     For example, U.S. Patent No. 6,264,802 to Kamrukov et al. teaches applying UV
radiation to liquids, air and surfaces with a radiation intensity of at least 100 KW/m2 , a pulse
duration between 1 and 1000 microseconds and further that the energy discharged to the lamp,
surface area of the lamp and the pulse duration follow a specified relationship. The patent is
silent with regard to what pulse frequencies may be employed. U.S. Patent No. 5,144,146 to
Wekhof teaches different power requirements for purifying wastewater in that an average power
density of UV needs to be maintained at a value of at least 100 W/m 2 within the wastewater
while the UV source is pulsed at frequency of 5 to 100 Hz. It is noted that the teaching of
maintaining an average power density of UV at a value of at least 100 W/m 2 is in reference to the
entire operation cycle of the lamp rather than just when UV radiation is delivered from the lamp,
which differs from the other power requirement parameters disclosed in the patent. In particular,
U.S. Patent No. 5,144,146 to Wekhof further teaches that the ratio of root mean square power to
average power delivered by the UV source needs to be in range of 10:1 to 100:1 and the ratio of
peak power to average power delivered by the UV source needs to be in the range of 1000:1 to
10,000:1.
[135]     As will be described in more detail below, the area/room disinfection processes
described herein do not meet any of these prior art requirements, specifically that processes are
conducted with significantly lower power fluxes at distances 1.0 meter and farther from the
disinfection apparatuses. In particular, it was discovered during the development of the ideas
provided herein that sufficient germicidal efficacy could be obtained with pulses of light
generated at frequencies greater than approximately 50 Hz and with relatively low power flux,
particularly less than 5000 W/m 2 of UV light in the wavelength range of 200 nm to 320 nm at
surfaces at least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatuses. As used herein, sufficient
germicidal efficacy refers to a 2-log or more reduction in bacterial contamination on surfaces.
                                                  34

[136]      More specifically, in development of the ideas provided herein, disinfection efficacies
of five different frequencies ranging between 1.0 Hz and 100 Hz were evaluated at a surface 2.0
meters away from a germicidal pulsed light source, the results of which are depicted in Fig. 7.
The lamps used for each of the frequencies were xenon flashlamps constructed of the same
materials, the same surface area and the same fill pressure. In the interest to evaluate any
variances induced by the differences in frequencies, the cycle times of the disinfection processes
for each of the frequencies was the same (i.e., 5 minutes) and the lamps were conducted at
operational parameters that produced comparable power flux at the lamp surface over that cycle
time (i.e., all light generated at the lamp, not just UV or UVC). To accommodate such a power
flux, the pulse duration and the amount of energy accumulated at the capacitor/s for discharge to
the lamps for the disinfection processes conducted at higher frequencies are generally lower than
disinfection processes conducted at lower frequencies. In making such adjustments, the higher
frequency processes are conducted with a lower power flux per pulse than the lower frequency
processes. In other words, the transmission rate of radiant energy at a given surface per unit area
is less for each pulse.
[137]      As shown in Fig. 7, disinfection efficacy is substantially similar among the five
different trigger voltage frequencies for 5 minute disinfection processes. Based on the data
obtained for the 5 different frequencies tested, it is apparent that a disinfection process may be
modulated by the varying the amount, duration and frequency of UV light applied to a surface at
a given distance without substantially affecting the disinfection efficacy. More specifically, it
has been found that UV light may be applied at a lower intensity and shorter pulse duration but at
a higher frequency at a surface at a given distance for a given cycle time and yield substantially
similar germicidal efficacy as compared to processes applying higher intensity of UV light at
lower doses. Several theories are contemplated to explain such findings. One theory involves
keeping the targeted pathogen in a "shocked state," in which there is a potential for damage. In
particular, it is theorized that the longer the pathogen is in a "shocked state," which is caused by
incident photons, the more likely the cell is to be deactivated. In order to acquire this state, it is
believed that there is a minimum level intensity of UV light needed, which based on the data
obtained was attainable with at least 100 Hz frequencies. In the interest of efficiency, it is
                                                    35

speculated that higher frequencies of pulsing minimize the amount of photons to reach this state,
but simultaneously maximize the number of "shock state" events.
[138]      A second theory involves overwhelming enzymatic cellular repair mechanisms that aid
in photo-repair (i.e., repairing a previously deactivated cell). In particular, more frequent photon
flux induced by higher frequency applications could overwhelm cellular repair mechanisms
before repair can be completed. It is further contemplated that these theories can be interrelated,
specifically that the tested disinfection efficacy of the higher frequencies could involve a
combination of the two. Furthermore, it is conceivable that these theories and/or the results
found in testing the five different aforementioned frequencies could be limited to inanimate
objects and/or nosocomial pathogens.
[139]      Moreover, it is speculated that the comparable disinfection efficacies achieved among
the five different pulse frequencies tested with respect to Fig. 7 may be due to an increase in
power flux at specific wavelengths that potentially have a higher degree of germicidal effect
relative to other wavelengths in the UVC range as pulse frequency is increased. In particular, it
was discovered during the development of the ideas provided herein that a disinfection process
that generates pulsed light between 60 Hz and approximately 70 Hz produces greater power flux
at wavelengths of approximately 230 nm, approximately 248 nm and approximately 261 nm than
a disinfection process that generates pulsed light between 1.0 Hz and 2.0 Hz, despite the overall
power flux in the UVC range of the 60-70 Hz disinfection process being lower than the power
flux generated in the UVC range of the 1.0-2.0 Hz disinfection process. It theorized that the
larger peaks at approximately 230 nm, approximately 248 nm and approximately 261 nm may
compensate for the overall lower power flux in the UVC range relative to the 1.0-2.0 Hz process
lending to comparable disinfection efficacy.
[140]      Moreover, it is speculated that the comparable disinfection efficacies achieved among
the five different pulse frequencies tested with respect to Fig. 7 may be due to larger variations of
power flux in germicidal ranges of light as pulse frequency is increased. In particular, it was
discovered during the development of the ideas provided herein that a disinfection process that
generates pulsed light between 60 Hz and 70 Hz produces a larger variation of power flux in the
                                                   36

UVC range, specifically between 210 nm and 320 nm and, more specifically between
approximately 225 nm and approximately 265 nm, than a disinfection process that generates
pulsed light between 1.0 Hz and 2.0 Hz. It theorized that the larger variation of power flux may
compensate for the overall lower power flux in the UVC range relative to the 1.0-2.0 Hz process
lending to comparable disinfection efficacy. In particular, a larger variation of power flux within
a spectrum of radiation correlates to atomic line radiation, which generally corresponds to
bound-bound energy state transitions of the photons. In contrast, a smaller variation of power
flux within a spectrum of radiation correlates to continuum radiation, which generally
corresponds to free-bound and free-free energy state transitions of the photons. In general,
photons in bound-bound energy state transitions have a higher amount of energy than photons in
free-bound and free-free energy state transitions. It is theorized that the higher energy of photons
induced by a larger power flux variations exhibited in the UVC range for the 60-70 Hz
disinfection process may compensate for the overall lower power flux in the UVC range relative
to the 1.0-2.0 Hz process, lending to comparable disinfection efficacy between the two
processes.
[141]      Some of the variation of power flux in the UVC range for the 60-70 Hz disinfection
process is due to the large peaks centered at approximately 230 nm, approximately 248 nm and
approximately 261 nm. In taking integral of such peaks relative to the integral of the range
between approximately 225 nm and approximately 265 nm, an approximation of the degree of
variation across such a range was quantified. In particular, approximately 60% of the power flux
in that range was due to the peaks for the 60-70 Hz process and approximately 50% of the power
flux in that range is due to the peaks for the 1.0-2.0 Hz process. It is noted that the 60-70 Hz
process exhibited larger power flux variations across other wavelength ranges of the ultraviolet
spectrum and it is contemplated those variations may further contribute to the relatively
comparable disinfection efficacy of the 60-70 Hz process relative to the 1.0-2.0 Hz process
despite the overall lower power flux in the UVC range for the 60-70 Hz process. Moreover, the
60-70 Hz process exhibited a larger variation of power fluxes of visible violet-blue light between
approximately 420 nm and approximately 470 nm than the power flux variation for the 1.0-2.0
Hz process in the same range and it is contemplated those larger power flux variations may
contribute to the relatively comparable disinfection efficacy of the 60-70 Hz process relative to
                                                  37

the 1.0 Hz process. In particular, visible violet-blue light between approximately 400 nm and
approximately 470 nm has been determined to be germicidal and, thus, the higher variation of
power flux in such a region may aid in germicidal efficacy.
[142]      Given the discovery that comparable disinfection efficacies may be obtained at 2.0
meters away from a pulsed light source conducted at pulse frequencies ranging between 1.0 Hz
and 100 Hz, it is contemplated that a room/area disinfection apparatus can be operated at any
pulse frequency if the parameters of the operation are governed to generate a set power flux of
light at the lamp which has been determined to affect sufficient germicidal efficacy at a desired
distance from the disinfection apparatus. It is further contemplated that a room/area disinfection
apparatus can be operated at any pulse frequency if a desired power flux of UVC radiation has
been determined to affect sufficient germicidal efficacy at a desired distance from the
disinfection apparatus. In particular, the operational parameters of the apparatus, such as pulse
duration, energy discharged to the lamp and lamp itself (particularly the exterior surface of the
lamp) may be optimized to achieve the desired power flux of UVC radiation at the desired pulse
frequency.
[143]      The disclosure provided herein focuses on ranges of power fluxes of ultraviolet light
between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm during a given pulse which may be
used for area/room disinfection apparatuses operated at frequencies greater than approximately
20 Hz, particularly for sufficient germicidal efficacy at 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 meters away from the
apparatus. In particular, Fig. 6 illustrates germicidal light source 98 of a room/area disinfection
apparatus with target ranges of energy flux and power flux of ultraviolet light between
approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm specified for the lamp surface and distances
1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 meters away from the apparatus. The entire room/area disinfection apparatus is
not shown in Fig. 6 to simplify the drawing, but the apparatus may generally include any of
apparatus features and configurations described in reference to Figs. 1-3. It is particularly noted
that germicidal light source 98 may be a pulsed germicidal light source or may be a continuous
germicidal light source, wherein the latter embodiment, the room/area disinfection apparatus
includes circuitry to turn the light source on and off to pulse light therefrom.
                                                  38

[144]     As shown in Fig. 6, target ranges of energy flux of ultraviolet light between
approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm at the surface of germicidal light source 98
may be between approximately 20 J/m 2 and approximately 1500 J/m 2. In addition, the target
range of power flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320
nm at the surface of germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately 0.8 MW/m 2 and
approximately 5.0 MW/m 2. In more specific embodiments, the energy flux and power flux of
ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm at the surface of
germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately 20 J/m 2 and approximately 500 J/m 2
and between approximately 0.8 MW/m2 and approximately 1.5 MW/m2 , respectively. As further
shown in Fig. 6, target ranges of energy flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm
and approximately 320 nm approximately 1.0 meter from germicidal light source 98 may be
between approximately 0.02 J/m 2 and approximately 1.5 J/m 2 . In addition, the target range of
power flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm
approximately 1.0 meter away germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately 800
W/m 2 and approximately 5000 W/m 2 . In more specific embodiments, the energy flux and power
flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm
approximately 1.0 meter from germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately 0.02
J/m 2 and approximately 0.5 J/m 2 and between approximately 800 W/m 2 and approximately 1500
W/m 2 , respectively.
[145]     Fig. 6 further shows target ranges of energy flux of ultraviolet light between
approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm approximately 2.0 meter from germicidal light
source 98 may be between approximately 6.0 pJ/m 2 and approximately 370 pJ/m 2. In addition,
the target range of power flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and
approximately 320 nm approximately 2.0 meters from germicidal light source 98 may be
between approximately 200 W/m 2 and approximately 1300 W/m 2. In more specific
embodiments, the energy flux and power flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm
and approximately 320 nm approximately 2.0 meters from germicidal light source 98 may be
between approximately 6.0 pJ/m 2 and approximately 250 pJ/m 2 and between approximately 200
W/m 2 and approximately 800 W/m 2 , respectively. Moreover, Fig. 6 further shows target ranges
of energy flux of ultraviolet light between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm
                                                  39

approximately 3.0 meters from germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately1.5
pJ/m2 and approximately 95 pJ/m2 . In addition, the target range of power flux of ultraviolet light
between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm approximately 3.0 meters from
germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately 50 W/m 2 and approximately 300
W/m 2 . In more specific embodiments, the energy flux and power flux of ultraviolet light
between approximately 200 nm and approximately 320 nm approximately 3.0 meters from
germicidal light source 98 may be between approximately 6.0 pJ/m 2 and approximately 120
                                                                              2
pJ/m2 and between approximately 200 W/m 2 and approximately 600 W/m , respectively.
[146]      As noted above, the area/room disinfection processes described herein do not meet any
of parameters requirements taught in U.S. Patent No. 6,264,802 to Kamrukov et al., U.S. Patent
No. 5,144,146 to Wekhof, U.S. Application No. US 2008/0150443 to Tipton for operation of
germicidal pulsed light sources. In particular, the maximum power flux recited in reference to
Fig. 6 for distances 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 meters from a germicidal light source is 5000 W/m 2, which is
two orders of magnitude lower than the 100 KW/ m 2 minimum power flux requirement taught in
U.S. Patent No. 6,264,802 to Kamrukov et al. Likewise, the average power density of UV light
over a cycle time of a disinfection process that is conducted using any of the target power flux
ranges noted in Fig. 6 is likely at least two orders of magnitude less than the requirement taught
in U.S. Patent No. 5,144,146 to Wekhof. In particular, a disinfection process conducted with a
pulse frequency between 60 Hz and approximately 70 Hzfor the development of the ideas
provided herein was calculated to have an average power flux in the UV range over the operation
of the disinfection process of 2.9 W/m2 , which is two orders of magnitude lower than the 100 W/
m 2 minimum power flux requirement taught in U.S. Patent No. 5,144,146 to Wekhof.
Furthermore, any disinfection process conducted using any of the target power flux ranges noted
in Fig. 6 likely does not meet the ratio of root mean square (RMS) power to average power
requirement or the ratio of peak power to average power requirement. For example, a
disinfection process conducted with a pulse frequency between 60 and 70 Hz for the
development of the ideas herein exhibited a ratio of RMS power to average power of 1.4 and a
ratio of peak power to average power of 4.2 approximately 1.0 meter from the germicidal light
source during a given pulse.
                                                  40

[147]      For some embodiments, frequencies in the range of 55 Hz to 80 Hz and, particularly 67
Hz, were deemed particularly suitable for the disinfection processes described herein. In
particular, frequencies of these values have a higher power per pulse than higher frequencies,
and, thus, overall UVC dose of the noted frequencies is greater and UVC dose is substantially
greater at larger distances due to the inverse square law. Furthermore, conversion of electrical
energy to optical energy at the frequencies of the noted range is more efficient than higher
frequencies. Moreover, there is less overall loss of energy at the frequencies of the noted range
when dealing with relatively large angles of incidence and reflection. For room disinfection
processes, it is desirable to maximize the manipulation of light to reach areas that are not in line
of sight of the disinfection source. Although frequencies in the range of 55 Hz to 80 Hz may be
advantageous for several reasons, it is reasonable to consider frequencies greater than 80 Hz or
lower than 55 Hz for the disinfection processes described herein.
[148]      Furthermore, frequencies of 50 Hz and greater exhibited beneficial characteristics
distinct from the processes conducted at a frequency between 1.0 Hz and 2.0 Hz. In particular,
the noise of the light generated from frequencies of 50 Hz and greater was substantially less than
the noise of light generated from the 1.0-2.0 Hz frequency. Furthermore, the visual intensity of
the light generated from frequencies of 50 Hz and greater was substantially less than the intensity
of light generated from the 1.0-2.0 Hz frequency. Further to such a regard, it was found in
additional testing that the visual intensity of the light generated from frequencies of 50 Hz and
greater was also substantially less than the intensity of light generated from the 1.0-2.0 Hz
frequency when a visible light filter was used to block visible light emitted from the lamp for the
 1.0-2.0 frequency process (and no filter was used on the apparatus for the frequencies of 50 Hz
and greater).
[149]      Additionally in such testing, it was found that the disinfection efficacy of a 5 minute
cycle time for the 1.0-2.0 Hz frequency process employing a visible light filter decreased
substantially, notably over half a log difference, relative to embodiments in which a visible light
filter was not used on the disinfection apparatus during a 1.0-2.0 Hz process. It is believed the
decrease in disinfection efficacy was due to a combination of altered spectra of light radiation
emitted as well as a decrease in the total UVC dose at the targeted surface. Given a visible light
                                                   41

filter is generally needed for 1.0-2.0 frequency disinfection processes due to the extreme of
visible light generated, there is the possibility for shorter disinfection cycles (i.e., shorter than 5
minutes) for disinfection processes using frequencies of 50 Hz and greater since a visible light
filter may not be needed to attenuate visual stimuli. Also, an improvement in bulb life may be
realized for disinfection processes using frequencies of 50 Hz and greater due to the lower power
flux per pulse employed.
[150]      As noted above, it may be advantageous utilize a frequency above the safety threshold
for inducing seizures (which is generally considered to be about 60 Hz) for the methods and
apparatuses described herein, but as further noted above, lower frequencies (i.e., frequencies less
than 60 Hz) may be employed. More specifically, frequencies considered to potentially induce
seizures (the range of which is generally considered to be 3-60 Hz) may be employed within the
methods and apparatuses disclosed herein. In such cases, provisions may be used to shield or
mask the generation of visible light from the germicidal light source. For example, the
disinfection apparatus may include an optical filter configured to attenuate a majority or all
visible light generated from the germicidal light source. In addition or alternatively, the
disinfection apparatus may include a visible light source distinct from the germicidal light source
that is used to either mask the visible light generated by the germicidal light source or is
synchronously pulsed with pulses of light from the germicidal light source such that the
collective projection of visible light from the two light sources is greater than a safety threshold
for inducing seizures (such as greater than 60 Hz).
[151]      Fig. 8 illustrates an example of an apparatus including a germicidal light source and a
separate visible light source which may be used in such a manner. In particular, Fig. 8 illustrates
apparatus 100 including germicidal light source 102 and visible light source 112. Germicidal
light source 102 may include any germicidal light source 102 which is configured to generate
both germicidal light and visible light. For example, germicidal light source 102 may be
configured to generate germicidal ultraviolet light and visible light. In addition or alternatively,
germicidal light source 102 may be configured to generate germicidal visible violet-blue light.
In any case, germicidal light source 102 may be pulsed germicidal light source or may be a
continuous germicidal light source. In the latter case, apparatus 100 may include circuitry for
                                                   42

turning the continuous germicidal light source on and off at a set frequency such that recurrent
pulses of light may be generated from the continuous germicidal light source.
[152]      Visible light source 112 may include any light source 102 which is configured to
generate visible light, including those which can produce continuous light and those which
produced pulsed light. In some cases, visible light source 112 may additionally generate light
which is not visible. In particular embodiments, visible light source 112 may additionally
generate germicidal light, such as germicidal ultraviolet light and germicidal visible violet-blue
light. In some of such cases, visible light source 112 may generate the same type of light as
germicidal light source 102 and, in further embodiments, may be a light source of similar type as
germicidal light source 102 (i.e., the light sources generate light in the same manner). In yet
other cases, however, visible light source 112 may not be configured to generate germicidal
light. Examples of visible light lamps which may be considered include but are not limited to
LED lamps, fluorescent lamps and any type of germicidal light source that produces visible light.
[153]      In any case, the visible light generated by visible light source 112 may have an average
intensity of at least approximately 90% of the average visible light intensity projected from the
germicidal light source 102 or passed through an optical filter surrounding germicidal light
source 102, if applicable. In some embodiments, the visible light generated by visible light
source 112 may have greater intensity than the visible light intensity projected from germicidal
light source 102 or passed through an optical filter surrounding germicidal light source 102, if
applicable. For example, in embodiments in which visible light source 112 emits continuous
light, the intensity of the visible light generated by visible light source 112 may be at least
approximately 150% greater than the intensity of the visible light projected from germicidal light
source 102 or passed through an optical filter surrounding the germicidal light source, if
applicable. Alternatively, in embodiments in which visible light source 112 generates pulses of
visible light, the visible light generated by visible light source 112 may have an average intensity
between approximately 90% and approximately 110% of the average visible light intensity
projected from germicidal light source 102 or passed through an optical filter surrounding the
germicidal light source, if applicable. In general, such intensities may be measured at any given
distance from light sources, but it may be particularly suitable if the noted intensities are
                                                    43

measured at a given distance 1.0 meter or greater from the light sources and, in some cases, at
distances 2.0 meters or greater or even 3.0 meters or greater from the light sources. In this
manner, the projection of visible light from visible light source 112 may be sufficient to mask or
be substantially equivalent (i.e., +/- 10%) to the projection of visible light from germicidal light
source 102.
[154]      In some particular cases, visible light source 112 may include similar dimensional
configurations (i.e., shape and size) as germicidal light source 102. For example, it may be
advantageous to for visible light source 112 and germicidal light source 102 to have exterior
surface areas within approximately 20% of each other. Having such comparable surface areas
may facilitate the light sources to emit a comparable amount of light in addition to the light being
of comparable intensity. In some cases, visible light source 112 and germicidal light source 102
may have exterior surface areas within approximately 10% of each other or less. In particular
embodiments, visible light source 112 and germicidal light source 102 may have approximately
the same exterior surface areas.
[155]      In some cases, visible light lamp 112 may be tinted to match the spectrum of visible
light generated from the germicidal light source 102. In addition or alternatively, it may be
advantageous for visible light source 112 to be a lamp which uses less power than the germicidal
light source 102. In particular, a disinfection process utilizing such a visible light lamp and also
utilizing a germicidal light source pulsed at a frequency which light appears to be pulsed to the
human eye (e.g., at frequencies less than 60 Hz) may require less power consumption as
compared to a disinfection process using a germicidal light source pulsed at a frequency which
light appears to be continuous to the human eye. Such lower power consumption may be an
incentive to use the dual lamp process versus a process only utilizing a germicidal light source.
[156]      Although not necessarily so limited, apparatus 100 may be a room/area disinfection
apparatus and, thus, germicidal light source 102 and visible light source 112 may be configured
to distribute light in a spacious manner to an ambient of an area/room in which apparatus 100 is
arranged. In addition, germicidal light source 102 and visible light source 112 may be
configured within the apparatuses described herein to distribute light to surfaces within a room or
                                                   44

area that are greater than 1.0 meter or even 2.0 or 3.0 meters from apparatus 100. In specific
embodiments, germicidal light source 102 and visible light source 112 may be configured to
have a substantially similar spacial light dispersement patterns. The light sources may be of any
shape, size, or configuration in which to achieve such objectives. In specific embodiments,
germicidal light source 10 and visible light source 112 may each be arranged lengthwise
perpendicular to a horizontal plane of a support structure of an apparatus as shown in Fig. 8.
[157]      Other features which may facilitate or enhance disinfection within a room or area,
particularly at distances 1.0, 2.0 or 3.0 meters from apparatus 100, may be included in apparatus
100. Several examples are described above in regard to Figs. 1-3 and are not reiterated for the
sake of brevity. Furthermore, apparatus 100 may include any of the features described in
reference to apparatuses described in reference to Figs. 1-3, including but not limited to energy
storage element/s 26, trigger voltage circuitry 28, power circuitry 30, pulse duration circuitry 32,
program instructions 34, processor 36, optional battery 38, remote user interface 40, power cord
42, wheels 44, occupancy sensor 46, a user interface on the apparatus (in addition or alternative
to remote user interface 40), a handle to aid in portability of the apparatus, a power socket inlet
(in addition or alternative to power cord 42) and/or additional sensors, such as additional
occupancy sensors and light sensors. Some of such features are not shown in apparatus 100 to
simplify the drawing in Fig. 9. Furthermore, some of such features are not described in reference
to apparatus 100 for the sake of brevity.
[158]      As shown in Fig. 8, apparatus 100 may include power supply circuitry 26, pulse
circuitry 108, program instructions 28, processor 30, battery 32, remote user interface 34, and
occupancy sensor 48. In general, power supply circuitry 26 is configured to supply power to
each of light sources 102 and 112 for operation thereof and pulse circuitry is configured to
facilitate pulses of light at germicidal light source 102 and possibly at visible light source 112,
depending on whether light from visible light source is to be emitted in recurrent pulses or
continuously. In cases in which visible light source 102 is operated to generate visible light
continuously, the visible light may serve to substantially mask the visible light generated by the
germicidal light source. In contrast, in cases in which visible light source 102 is operated to
generate recurrent pulses of visible light, the pulses of visible light from the visible light source
                                                   45

may be projected between projections of light from the germicidal light source such that the
projections of visible light from the two light sources produces a collective stream of visible light
pulsed at a frequency greater than 60 Hz minimizing seizure inducement. In such cases,
germicidal light source and the visible light source are pulsed at the same frequency but with a
phase difference relative to each other. The pulse durations of the germicidal light source and
the visible light source may be the same or different.
[159]      Fig. 9 illustrates a diagram of the two operational options of generating light at each of
light sources 102 and 112 with respect to each other. In particular, Fig. 9 shows block 120
denoting that pulse of light are generated at a germicidal light source. In addition, Fig. 9 shows
block 122 denoting that light generated at a visible light source distinct from the germicidal light
source is generated either continuously or is pulsed. Moreover, Fig. 9 shows block 124 denoting
that the generation of light from the two light sources is governed such that projections of visible
light from the visible light source and projections of visible light from the germicidal light source
produce a continuous stream of visible light or a collective stream of visible light pulsed at a
frequency greater than 60 Hz.
[160]      As noted above, an optical filter configured to attenuate a majority or all visible light
generated from a germicidal light source may be used to mask the generation of visible light
from the germicidal light source. It is noted that the use of such an optical filter is not limited to
embodiments in which the germicidal light source is pulsed at a frequency between 3 Hz and 50
Hz. In particular, any of the apparatuses described herein may include an optical filter
configured to attenuate a majority or all visible light generated from the germicidal light source,
regardless of the pulse frequency of light generated therefrom. It is noted, however, that an
optical filter configured to attenuate visible light generally reduces the germicidal efficacy of
room disinfection apparatuses, particularly at distances at 1, 2 and 3 meters away from a
germicidal light source of an apparatus. Thus, in some cases, it may be advantageous to omit an
optical filter for attenuating visible light in the apparatuses described herein.
[161]      It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that
this invention is believed to provide pulsed light disinfection systems and methods which trigger
                                                     46

a germicidal pulsed light source at a frequency greater than 3 Hz. Further modifications and
alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in
the art in view of this description. Accordingly, this description is to be construed as illustrative
only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the general manner of carrying out
the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of the invention shown and described herein
are to be taken as the presently preferred embodiments. Elements and materials may be
substituted for those illustrated and described herein, parts and processes may be reversed, and
certain features of the invention may be utilized independently, all as would be apparent to one
skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the invention. Changes may be
made in the elements described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention as described in the following claims. The term "approximately" as used herein refers to
variations of up to +/- 5% of the stated number.
[162]      Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
[163]      Furthermore, throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or "including", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
                                                    47

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.     A disinfection apparatus, comprising:
        a germicidal pulsed light source arranged within the disinfection apparatus such that
                germicidal light generated from the germicidal pulsed light source is projected
                exterior to the disinfection apparatus;
        power regulator circuitry for applying a trigger voltage to the germicidal pulsed light
                source at a set frequency greater than approximately 3 Hz;
        power supply circuitry;
        one or more electrical charge storage devices coupled to the power supply circuitry and to
               the germicidal pulsed light source;
        pulse duration circuitry coupled between the one or more electrical charge storage
               devices and the germicidal pulsed light source;
        an occupancy sensor for determining presence of an individual in a region extending at
                least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus;
        a processor; and
        program instructions executable by the processor for inhibiting and terminating the
                generation of light from the germicidal pulsed light source upon the occupancy
                sensor detecting presence of an individual.
2.      The disinfection apparatus of claim 1, further comprising wheels to affect portability of
the disinfection apparatus.
3.      The disinfection apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the program instructions are further
executable by the processor for receiving data regarding the characteristics of a space in which
the disinfection apparatus is to be operated.
4.      A disinfection apparatus, comprising:
        a germicidal pulsed light source arranged within the disinfection apparatus such that
                germicidal light generated from the germicidal pulsed light source is projected
                exterior to the disinfection apparatus;
                                                  48

        power regulator circuitry for applying a trigger voltage to the germicidal pulsed light
                source at a set frequency greater than approximately 3 Hz;
        power supply circuitry;
        one or more electrical charge storage devices coupled to the power supply circuitry and to
               the germicidal pulsed light source;
        pulse duration circuitry coupled between the one or more electrical charge storage
               devices and the germicidal pulsed light source; and
        wheels to affect portability of the disinfection apparatus.
5.      The disinfection apparatus of claim 4, further comprising:
        an occupancy sensor for determining presence of an individual in a region extending at
                least 1.0 meter from the disinfection apparatus;
        a processor; and
        program instructions executable by the processor for inhibiting and terminating the
                generation of light from the germicidal pulsed light source upon the occupancy
                sensor detecting presence of an individual.
6.      The disinfection apparatus of claim 4, further comprising:
        a processor; and
        program instructions executable by the processor for receiving data regarding the
                characteristics of a space in which the disinfection apparatus is to be operated.
7.      The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the one or more electrical
charge storage devices and the pulse duration circuitry are configured to discharge a set amount
of stored energy in a set amount of time such that energy flux of ultraviolet light in the
wavelength range between 200 nm and 320 nm generated at the germicidal pulsed light source is
between approximately 20 J/m 2 and approximately 1500 J/m 2.
8.      The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the one or more electrical
charge storage devices and the pulse duration circuitry are configured to discharge a set amount
of stored energy in a set amount of time such that energy flux of ultraviolet light in the
                                                  49

wavelength range between 200 nm and 320 nm generated at the germicidal pulsed light source is
between approximately 0.8 MW/m 2 and approximately 5.0 MW/m2.
9.       The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the germicidal pulsed light
source is a polychromatic germicidal light source.
 10.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the germicidal pulsed light
source is a xenon discharge lamp.
 11.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the germicidal pulsed light
source has an exterior surface area between approximately 50 cm 2 and approximately 250 cm 2.
 12.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-11, further comprising a housing
surrounding the germicidal pulsed light source, wherein a sidewall of the housing is transparent
to ultraviolet light, and wherein the germicidal pulsed light source and the housing are arranged
in the disinfection apparatus such that ultraviolet light emitted from the germicidal pulsed light
source and transmitted through the housing is projected exterior to the disinfection apparatus.
 13.     The disinfection apparatus of claim 12, further comprising:
                  a gas inlet disposed at a first end of the housing; and
                 a gas outlet disposed at a second end of the housing opposing the first end.
 14.     The disinfection apparatus of claim 13, further comprising an ozone reducing device
disposed in proximity to the gas outlet.
 15.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the germicidal pulsed light
source is arranged lengthwise substantially perpendicular to a horizontal plane of the disinfection
apparatus.
 16.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the disinfection apparatus
is void of an opaque component 360' around an elongated portion of the germicidal pulsed light
                                                     50

source such that light emitted from the germicidal pulsed light source encircles the disinfection
apparatus at least 1 meter from the disinfection apparatus.
17.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the disinfection apparatus
comprises an actuator for moving the germicidal pulsed light source within the disinfection
apparatus.
18.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the germicidal pulsed light
source generates ultraviolet light and visible light, wherein the disinfection apparatus further
comprises a visible light source distinct from the germicidal pulsed light source, and wherein the
visible light source and the germicidal pulsed light source comprise exterior surface areas within
approximately 20% of each other.
19.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency greater than approximately 20 Hz.
20.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency greater than approximately 40 Hz.
21.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency greater than approximately 60 Hz.
22.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency greater than approximately 80 Hz.
23.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency greater than approximately 100 Hz.
24.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency between approximately 55 Hz and approximately 80 Hz.
                                                  51

25.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the set frequency is a
frequency between approximately 3 Hz and approximately 50 Hz.
26.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-25, further comprising a battery
connected to the power supply circuitry.
27.     The disinfection apparatus of any one of claims 1-26, further comprising a power cord
and/or a power socket inlet for connecting the power supply circuitry to a mains alternating
current power supply of a building, wherein the power supply circuitry comprises:
        a step-up transformer for increasing alternating current received via the power cord
                 and/or the power socket inlet; and
        a rectifier for converting alternating current received from the step-up transformer into
                 direct current.
                                                  52

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
