                                               8
  ABSTRACT
           There is provided a writing instrument, including a body being graspable by a
  user, a chamber extending inwardly of a forward end of the body, the chamber
  having an opening, a nib attached in or adjacent said opening, a nib feed held at
5 least partly within said chamber and extending out through the opening such that the
  nib feed is positioned adjacent the nib, wherein the nib and nib feed are dipable into
  a volume of writing ink such that said writing ink is drawn into the chamber, whereby
  the writing ink may be used by the user to undertake writing or drawing.

2/6
       L
    rn

                                                1
                                  HYBRID DIP FOUNTAIN PEN
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to writing instruments and in particular to a
   hybrid dip/fountain pen.
 5 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            There are numerous types of writing instruments currently available on the
   market and suggested in the published prior art. These pens include dip pens which
   were developed to replace the quill pen, and the fountain pens that was developed to
   overcome some of the problems associated with the dip pen.
10          A dip pen typically includes a metal nib with a capillary channel that extends
   between a tapered tip and a breather hole. The metal nib is detachably mounted to a
   handle or holder, and the breather hole acts as an ink reservoir.
            One of the major problems with existing dip pens is that the user must
   frequently recharge the ink from an inkwell to continue with their drawing or writing.
15 The published prior art suggests the use of a narrow tube reservoir that can be
   clipped onto the side of a dip pen, which allows the user to draw or write for several
   minutes without recharging the nib. However, these tubes could become easily
   clogged and are of limited usefulness.
            The dip pen may also be recharged using a syringe or brush, however this
20 adds to the effort required to undertake the writing or drawing activity and may lead
   to spillage of the ink.
            In contrast, a fountain pen includes an internal reservoir of ink and a nib feed,
   which abuts the underside of a metal nib. Ink from the internal reservoir passes
   through the nib feed, and sometimes also an internal tube, to the metal nib to be
25 deposited onto a paper surface by the user. To fill the internal reservoir with ink a
   user may manually use a pipette or syringe to inject the ink into the internal reservoir.
   Some fountain pens include an internal filling mechanism which creates suction by
   way of a piston mechanism to thereby draw the ink directly through the nib into the
   reservoir. Other fountain pens use a replaceable reservoir in the form of a pre-filled
30 cartridge.

                                                2
            Both dip pens and fountain pens have their own advantages. For instance,
   dip pens can be more sensitive to variations of pressure and speed, which makes it
   easier to produce a line that varies in thickness. Furthermore, dip pens can produce
   a finer line compared to conventional fountain pens. In contrast fountain pens
 5 provide longer periods of writing or drawing and do not require frequent refiling.
   However, the use of disposable cartridges has an environmental impact and it may
   be more difficult or impossible to change nibs of a fountain pen if a different colour or
   style of nib is going to be used.
            It should be appreciated that any discussion of the prior art throughout the
10 specification is included solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
   invention and should in no way be considered as an admission that such prior art
   was widely known or formed part of the common general knowledge in the field as it
   existed before the priority date of the application.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15          In one aspect of the invention, but not necessarily the broadest or only
   aspect, there is proposed a writing instrument, including:
   a body being graspable by a user;
   a chamber extending inwardly of a forward end of the body, the chamber having an
   opening;
20 a nib attached in or adjacent said opening;
   a nib feed held at least partly within said chamber and extending out through the
   opening such that the nib feed is positioned adjacent the nib;
   wherein the nib and nib feed are dipable into a volume of writing ink such that said
   writing ink is drawn into the chamber, whereby the writing ink may be used by the
25 user to undertake writing or drawing.
            The writing ink is drawn into the chamber that acts as a temporary reservoir of
   writing ink to permit the user to undertake writing. The configuration of the chamber
   and connection with the nib and nib feed means that the writing ink is drawn into the
   temporary reservoir and then is feed out thereof once the user begins to write or
30 draw.
            In this way, the user does not need to frequently dip the pen into an inkwell to
   replenish the writing ink. The temporary ink reservoir acts in a similar way to the

                                                  3
   reservoir of a fountain pen but without the additional attachments or inserts that are
   required for a fountain pen to operate correctly.
            The nib and nib feed preferably frictionally engage the opening such that they
   are held in position for writing or drawing.
 5          The nib may include a main body portion, opposite shoulders, a tapered end,
   and a slit extending inwardly from the tapered end and leading to a breather or vent
   hole located through the main body portion between the opposite shoulders.
            The nib may alternatively include a body, a tapered end, a breather or vent
   hole and a capillary channel that extends between the tapered end and the breather
10 or vent hole.
            Preferably the nib feed includes a wing that is positionable adjacent said
   tapered end of the nib, a post at an opposite end of the nib feed to said wing, and a
   plurality of fins intermediate of the wing and post. An ink channel or channels may
   also extend through one or more of the plurality of fins.
15          In one form the nib is a fountain pen nib and the nib feed is a correspondingly
   shaped fountain pen nib feed. The fountain pen nib may be a Number 6 nib, with
   corresponding a correspondingly shaped nib feed.
            In still another form the nib is a conventional calligraphy nib with a
   correspondingly shaped nib feed.
20          The writing instrument may therefore include a number of exchangeable nibs
   or be compatible therewith, wherein the nibs may be conventional dip pen nibs
   and/or conventional fountain pen nibs and/or conventional calligraphy nibs. In this
   way, the line weighting, effects and colour of the writing can easily be changed by the
   user.
25          The open end of the chamber also enables rapid cleaning of the chamber
   after use or when colours or ink types are being changed.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part
   of this specification, illustrate an implementation of the invention and, together with

                                                 4
   the description, serve to explain the advantages and principles of the invention. In
   the drawings,
   Figure 1        is a perspective view of the body of the writing instrument illustrating
                   the position of the chamber and opening;
 5 Figure 2        is a side view of the body of the writing instrument of Figure 1;
   Figure 3        is a schematic view of the nib, nib feed, and the body of the writing
                   instrument of Figure 1 illustrating the position of the chamber and
                   opening.
   Figure 4        is a schematic view of the nib, nib feed and body of the writing
10                 instrument of Figure 3, showing one embodiment of the corresponding
                   body and nib feed;
   Figure 5        is a schematic view of the nib, nib feed and body of the writing
                   instrument of Figure 3, showing one embodiment of the corresponding
                   body, nib feed and nib;
15 Figure 6        is a schematic view of the nib, nib feed and body of the writing
                   instrument of Figure 3, showing a top view of the assembled
                   corresponding body, nib feed and nib of Figure 5; and
   Figure 7        is a schematic view of the nib, nib feed and body of the writing
                   instrument of Figure 3, showing an underside view of the assembled
20                 corresponding body, nib feed and nib of Figure 5, illustrating the
                   relative position of the nib feed and nib.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED AND EXEMPLIFIED
   EMBODIMENTS
           Similar reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the
25 drawings. Dimensions of certain parts shown in the drawings may have been
   modified and/or exaggerated for the purposes of clarity or illustration.
           Referring to the drawings for a more detailed description, there is illustrated a
   writing instrument, demonstrating by way of an example, an arrangement in which
   the principles of the present invention may be employed.       Turning to Figures 1 and 2

                                                  5
   there is illustrated one embodiment of a body 1 of the writing instrument, which is
   graspable by a user, the body 1 having an opening 2 leading to a chamber 3.
            The chamber 3 is configured the retain a nib feed 4 and nib 5 that are
   illustrated in Figure 3. The configuration of the chamber 3 means that it can be easily
 5 cleaned after use or when colours or ink types are being changed.
            As illustrated in Figure 4, the nib feed 4 is a conventional fountain pen nib
   feed having a wing, a post at an opposite end of the nib feed 4 and a plurality of fins
   intermediate of the wing and post. The nib feed 4 may be constructed from PVC or
   another plastics material. As further illustrated in Figure 4, the body 1 may be
10 constructed from resin, but may also be constructed from metal or wood.
             Figure 5 illustrates one embodiment of the nib 5 that is constructed from a
   metal material, such as stainless steel. As illustrated in Figure 5, the nib 5 of the
   present embodiment includes a main body portion, opposite shoulders, a tapered
   end, and a slit extending inwardly from the tapered end and leading to a breather or
15 vent hole.
            As illustrated in Figures 6 and 7, the nib 5 and nib feed 4 are inserted in
   through the opening 2 such that they frictionally engage the opening 2 and are held
   in position for writing or drawing. The nib feed 4 is configured to bear against an
   underside of the nib 5 to push it against the edge of the opening 2.
20          As illustrated in Figure 7 the forwardly extending wing of the nib feed 4 is
   positioned adjacent and rearward of the tapered end of the nib 5.
            As further illustrated in Figure 7, the nib feed 4 extends out through the
   opening 2 such that the nib feed 4 is positioned adjacent the underside of the nib 5.
            In this way, the nib 5 and nib feed 4 can be dipped into a volume of writing ink
25 (not shown) such that the writing ink is drawn up into the chamber 3, which acts as a
   temporary reservoir for the ink. The opening 2 therefore provides an inlet through
   which ink can be drawing into the temporary reservoir/chamber 3 and also an outlet
   for the ink when the user begins to write or draw.
            As the reader will appreciate this means that the user is able to dip the pen
30 less frequently into an inkwell in comparison to existing dip pen.

                                                 6
            The writing instrument may include a number of exchangeable nibs or be
   compatible therewith. The nibs may be conventional dip pen nibs or conventional
   fountain pen nibs or conventional calligraphy nibs, or may be provided with, or at
   least compatible with, a combination thereof.
 5          The skilled addressee should now appreciate some of the advantages of the
   illustrated invention over the prior art. In one form the invention provides a writing
   instrument that combines the advantages of the dip pen and a fountain pen. The
    Inventor has found that using the present invention a person is able to write a full A4
   page or more of standard script without having to replenish the temporary reservoir.
10 This is a significant improvement over existing dip pens that may only be able to
   achieve a single line of standard script without requiring refilling.
            Various features of the invention have been particularly shown and described
   in connection with the exemplified embodiments of the invention, however it must be
   understood that these particular arrangements merely illustrate the invention and it is
15 not limited thereto. Accordingly, the invention can include various modifications,
   which fall within the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                               7
   CLAIMS
      1. A writing instrument, including:
         a body being graspable by a user;
         a chamber extending inwardly of a forward end of the body, the chamber
 5       having an opening;
         a nib attached in or adjacent said opening;
         a nib feed held at least partly within said chamber and extending out through
         the opening such that the nib feed is positioned adjacent the nib;
         wherein the nib and nib feed are dipable into a volume of writing ink such that
10       said writing ink is drawn into the chamber, whereby the writing ink may be
         used by the user to undertake writing or drawing.
      2. The writing instrument in accordance with claim 1, wherein writing ink is
         drawn into the chamber that acts as a temporary reservoir of writing ink to
         permit the user to undertake writing.
15    3. The writing instrument in accordance with claim 2, wherein the nib and nib
         feed preferably frictionally engage the opening such that they are held in
         position for writing or drawing.
      4. The writing instrument in accordance with claim 3, wherein the nib includes a
         main body portion, opposite shoulders, a tapered end, and a slit extending
20       inwardly from the tapered end and leading to a breather or vent hole located
         through the main body portion between the opposite shoulders.
      5. The writing instrument in accordance with claim 4, wherein the nib feed
         includes a wing that is positionable adjacent said tapered end of the nib, a
         post at an opposite end of the nib feed to said wing, and a plurality of fins
25       intermediate of the wing and post.

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        3
                           1
    2
            Figure 1
                                                          1/6
                       1
2
        3
            Figure 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      2/6
Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      3/6
Figure 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      4/6
Figure 5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      5/6
Figure 6

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      6/6
Figure 7

