                           Multi-Factor Location Verification
        ABSTRACT
        In one embodiment, a method includes accessing at least two determinations of the
location of a mobile computing device, with each determined location having been determined
without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of the mobile
computing device. At least one first determined location is compared with at least one second
determined location, with comparisons being made between location determinations made based
on different location determination input. A functionality associated with the mobile computing
device is allowed if the first determined location corresponds to at least one of the second
determined locations.

                    1/5
                    100
                          SOCIAL-NETWORKING SYSTEM
                             --------           o 0
                  160-            --
                                                -  162
                                                   SERVER
                                            a)    0    0
                                           \---    164
                                                   DATA STORE
                                      150
   CLIENT SYSTE M
                      150
30 WEB BROWSER                          NETWORK
         132                                   1
                                      150
                          170 T       THIRD-PARTY
                                          SYSTEM
                  FIG. I

                                                   1
                            Multi-Factor Location Verification
RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [1]     This application is related to U.S. Patent Application No. 13/842,767 filed
 15 March 2013, International Patent Application No. PCT/US2014/024701 titled "Multi-factor
location verification" filed 12 March 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent
Application No. 2014235429 filed 12 March 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire
content of each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
        [2]     This disclosure generally relates to electronic location determination.
BACKGROUND
        [3]     A mobile computing device-such as a smartphone, tablet computer, or laptop
computer-may include functionality for determining its location, direction, or orientation, such
as a GPS receiver, compass, or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for
wireless communication, such as BLUETOOTH communication, near-field communication
(NFC), or infrared (IR) communication or communication with a wireless local area networks
(WLANs) or cellular-telephone network. Mobile computing devices may also execute software
applications, such as games, web browsers, or social-networking applications. With social
networking applications, users may connect, communicate, and share information with other
users in their social networks.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
        [4]     Verifying the location of a user of a mobile device can be an important part of
identifying a mobile device or a user of the mobile device. For example, data about events such
as a credit card swipe indicate that a user is performing an economic transaction at the location

                                                   2
of the terminal where the card is swiped. If other location determination methods indicate that
the user is in a different location, that information may call into question whether the user has
actually authorized the credit card swipe, or is instead being scammed or defrauded.
        [5]     The location of a user may be verified by accessing at least two determined
locations of the user or a mobile device associated with the user. For example, a user's location
may be determined by a GPS reading associated with the user's mobile device and by a radio
frequency identification between the mobile device and a kiosk at a known location. The two
determinations may be compared with each other, and a functionality associated with user or a
mobile device may be allowed or prohibited based on whether the compared locations
correspond to each other. For example, a credit card swipe or access to a secure network may be
allowed or denied based on the comparison.
        [6]     A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
        by one or more computing devices, accessing a plurality of determinations of the location
of a user of a mobile computing device, each determined location having been determined
without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of the mobile
computing device,
        by one or more computing devices, comparing a first determined location with at least
one second determined location, the first determined location having been determined based on
first location determination input, each of the second determined locations having been
determined without reference to the first location determination input; and
        by one or more computing devices, allowing a functionality associated with the mobile
computing device or the user of the mobile computing device when the first determined location
corresponds to one or more of the second determined locations.
        [7]     A second aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
        by one or more computing devices, accessing a plurality of determinations of the location
of a user of a mobile computing device, each determined location having been determined
without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of the mobile
computing device,
        by one or more computing devices, comparing a first determined location with at least
one second determined location, the first determined location having been determined based on

                                                 3
first location determination input, each of the second determined locations having been
determined without reference to the first location determination input; and
        by one or more computing devices, preventing a functionality associated with the mobile
computing device or a user of the mobile computing device when the first determined location
does not correspond to one or more of the second determined locations.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [8]     FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
        [9]     FIG. 2 illustrates an example social graph.
        [10]    FIG. 3 illustrates an example method for verifying the location of an individual
using multiple location factors.
        [11]    FIG. 4 illustrates an example method for verifying the location of a mobile
device, using a specific example of comparing two example location determination methods.
        [12]    FIG. 5 illustrates an example computer system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
        [13]    FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a social
networking system. Network environment 100 includes a client system 130, a social-networking
system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each other by a network 110. Although
FIG. 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160,
third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement
of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110. As
an example and not by way of limitation, two or more of client system 130, social-networking
system 160, and third-party system 170 may be connected to each other directly, bypassing
network 110. As another example, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system
 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or logically co-located with each other in
whole or in part. Moreover, although FIG. I illustrates a particular number of client systems 130,

                                                4
social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable number of client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third
party systems 170, and networks 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, network
environment 100 may include multiple client system 130, social-networking systems 160, third
party systems 170, and networks 110.
         [14]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless
LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network 110
may include one or more networks 110.
         [15]   Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and
third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 include
one or more wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable
Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for example Synchronous
Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular
embodiments, one or more links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a
VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the
PSTN, a cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology-based
network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links 150. Links 150 need not
necessarily be the same throughout network environment 100. One or more first links 150 may
differ in one or more respects from one or more second links 150.
         [16]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more
such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or
supported by client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, a client system 130
may include a computer system such as a desktop computer, notebook or laptop computer,

                                                 5
netbook, a tablet computer, e-book reader, GPS device, camera, personal digital assistant (PDA),
handheld electronic device, cellular telephone, smartphone, other suitable electronic device, or
any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems 130.
A client system 130 may enable a network user at client system 130 to access network 110. A
client system 130 may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems
 130.
         [17]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include a web browser 132,
such as MICROSOFT            INTERNET      EXPLORER,      GOOGLE CHROME            or MOZILLA
FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR
or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system 130 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator
(URL) or other address directing the web browser 132 to a particular server (such as server 162,
or a server associated with a third-party system 170), and the web browser 132 may generate a
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The
server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system 130 one or more Hyper
Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system 130 may
render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation,
webpages may render from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML)
files, or Extensible Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages
may also execute scripts such as, for example and without limitation, those written in
JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and
scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference
to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files (which a browser may use
to render the webpage) and vice versa, where appropriate.
         [18]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network
addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social-networking system
 160 may generate, store, receive, and send social-networking data, such as, for example, user
profile data, concept-profile data, social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the
online social network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other components
of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments,

                                                 6
social-networking system 160 may include one or more servers 162. Each server 162 may be a
unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters.
Servers 162 may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server,
news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server,
exchange server, database server, proxy server, another server suitable for performing functions
or processes described herein, or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments, each
server 162 may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of
two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or
supported by server 162. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 164 may include
one or more data stores 164. Data stores 164 may be used to store various types of information.
In particular embodiments, the information stored in data stores 164 may be organized according
to specific data structures. In particular embodiments, each data store 164 may be a relational,
columnar, correlation, or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates
particular types of databases, this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases.
Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system 130, a social
networking system 160, or a third-party system 170 to manage, retrieve, modify, add, or delete,
the information stored in data store 164.
        [19]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one or more
social graphs in one or more data stores 164. In particular embodiments, a social graph may
include multiple nodes-which may include multiple user nodes (each corresponding to a
particular user) or multiple concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept)-and
multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 160 may provide users of the
online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular
embodiments, users may join the online social network via social-networking system 160 and
then add connections (e.g. relationships) to a number of other users of social-networking system
 160 whom they want to be connected to. Herein, the term "friend" may refer to any other user of
social-networking system 160 with whom a user has formed a connection, association, or
relationship via social-networking system 160.
        [20]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide users with
the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects, supported by social-networking

                                                 7
system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, the items and objects may include
groups or social networks to which users of social-networking system 160 may belong, events or
calendar entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based applications that a user may
use, transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service, interactions with
advertisements that a user may perform, or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact
with anything that is capable of being represented in social-networking system 160 or by an
external system of third-party system 170, which is separate from social-networking system 160
and coupled to social-networking system 160 via a network 110.
         [21]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be capable of
linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking
system 160 may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third
party systems 170 or other entities, or to allow users to interact with these entities through an
application programming interfaces (API) or other communication channels.
         [22]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include one or more
types of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces, including but not limited to
APIs, one or more web services, one or more content sources, one or more networks, or any
other suitable components, e.g., that servers may communicate with. A third-party system 170
may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, however, social-networking system 160 and third-party systems 170
may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social-networking services to users of
social-networking system 160 or third-party systems 170. In this sense, social-networking system
 160 may provide a platform, or backbone, which other systems, such as third-party systems 170,
may use to provide social-networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.
         [23]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include a third-party
content object provider. A third-party content object provider may include one or more sources
of content objects, which may be communicated to a client system 130. As an example and not
by way of limitation, content objects may include information regarding things or activities of
interest to the user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie reviews, restaurant reviews,
restaurant menus, product information and reviews, or other suitable information. As another

                                                    8
example and not by way of limitation, content objects may include incentive content objects,
such as coupons, discount tickets, gift certificates, or other suitable incentive objects.
         [24]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 also includes user
generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with social-networking
system 160. User-generated content may include anything a user can add, upload, send, or "post"
to social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user
communicates posts to social-networking system 160 from a client system 130. Posts may
include data such as status updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos,
links, music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social-networking
system 160 by a third-party through a "communication channel," such as a newsfeed or stream.
         [25]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include a variety
of servers, sub-systems, programs, modules, logs, and data stores. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may include one or more of the following: a web server, action
logger, API-request server, relevance-and-ranking engine, content-object classifier, notification
controller,    action      log,   third-party-content-object-exposure     log,   inference    module,
authorization/privacy server, search module, advertisement-targeting module, user-interface
module, user-profile store, connection store, third-party content store, or location store. Social
networking system 160 may also include suitable components such as network interfaces,
security mechanisms, load balancers, failover servers, management-and-network-operations
consoles, other suitable components, or any suitable combination thereof. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or more user-profile stores for
storing user profiles. A user profile may include, for example, biographic information,
demographic      information, behavioral information, social information, or other types of
descriptive information, such as work experience, educational history, hobbies or preferences,
interests, affinities, or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more
categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation, if
a user "likes" an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand, or the general
category of "shoes" or "clothing." A connection store may be used for storing connection
information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or
common work experience, group memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in any way

                                                  9
related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user-defined
connections between different users and content (both internal and external). A web server may
be used for linking social-networking system 160 to one or more client systems 130 or one or
more third-party system 170 via network 110. The web server may include a mail server or other
messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social-networking system
 160 and one or more client systems 130. An API-request server may allow a third-party system
 170 to access information from social-networking system 160 by calling one or more APIs. An
action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user's actions
on or off social-networking system 160. In conjunction with the action log, a third-party-content
object log may be maintained of user exposures to third-party-content objects. A notification
controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system 130. Information
may be pushed to a client system 130 as notifications, or information may be pulled from client
system 130 responsive to a request received from client system 130. Authorization servers may
be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social-networking system 160. A
privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be
shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions
logged by social-networking system 160 or shared with other systems (e.g. third-party system
 170), such as, for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third-party-content-object
stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties, such as a third-party
system 170. Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client
systems 130 associated with users. Advertisement-pricing modules may combine social
information, the current time, location information, or other suitable information to provide
relevant advertisements, in the form of notifications, to a user.
         [26]    FIG. 2 illustrates example social graph 200. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may store one or more social graphs 200 in one or more data stores. In
particular embodiments, social graph 200 may include multiple nodes-which may include
multiple user nodes 202 or multiple concept nodes 204-and multiple edges 206 connecting the
nodes. Example social graph 200 illustrated in FIG. 2 is shown, for didactic purposes, in a two
dimensional visual map representation. In particular embodiments, a social-networking system
 160, client system 130, or third-party system 170 may access social graph 200 and related social-

                                                  10
graph information for suitable applications. The nodes and edges of social graph 200 may be
stored as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph database). Such a data
store may include one or more searchable or queryable indexes of nodes or edges of social graph
200.
        [27]    In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to a user of social
networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user may be an individual
(human user), an entity (e.g. an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g.
of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system
 160. In particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with social-networking
system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node 202 corresponding to the user,
and store the user node 202 in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes 202 described
herein may, where appropriate, refer to registered users and user nodes 202 associated with
registered users. In addition or as an alternative, users and user nodes 202 described herein may,
where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered with social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with information provided by a user
or information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a user may provide his or her name, profile picture,
contact information, birth date, sex, marital status, family status, employment, education
background,     preferences,   interests,  or   other   demographic    information.   In  particular
embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to
information associated with a user. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond
to one or more webpages.
        [28]    In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to a concept. As
an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may correspond to a place (such as, for
example, a movie theater, restaurant, landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example, a
website associated with social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with a
web-application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group, sports team,
or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video file, digital photo, text file,
structured document, or application) which may be located within social-networking system 160
or on an external server, such as a web-application server; real or intellectual property (such as,

                                                 11
for example, a sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or written work); a
game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more such concepts. A
concept node 204 may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or
information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, information of a concept may include a name or a title;
one or more images (e.g. an image of the cover page of a book); a location (e.g. an address or a
geographical location); a website (which may be associated with a URL); contact information
(e.g. a phone number or an email address); other suitable concept information; or any suitable
combination of such information. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may be
associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept
node 204. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to one or more
webpages.
         [29]   In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 200 may represent or be
represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page"). Profile pages may be
hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160. Profile pages may also be hosted on
third-party websites associated with a third-party server 170. As an example and not by way of
limitation, a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular
external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node 204. Profile
pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way
of limitation, a user node 202 may have a corresponding user-profile page in which the
corresponding user may add content, make declarations, or otherwise express himself or herself.
As another example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 may have a corresponding
concept-profile page in which one or more users may add content, make declarations, or express
themselves, particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node 204.
         [30]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may represent a third-party
webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party webpage or resource
may include, among other elements, content, a selectable or other icon, or other inter-actable
object (which may be implemented, for example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes)
representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party
webpage may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat," "recommend," or

                                                  12
another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage may perform an
action by selecting one of the icons (e.g. "eat"), causing a client system 130 to send to social
networking system 160 a message indicating the user's action. In response to the message,
social-networking system 160 may create an edge (e.g. an "eat" edge) between a user node 202
corresponding to the user and a concept node 204 corresponding to the third-party webpage or
resource and store edge 206 in one or more data stores.
         [31]   In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 200 may be connected
to each other by one or more edges 206. An edge 206 connecting a pair of nodes may represent a
relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments, an edge 206 may include or
represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair
of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may indicate that a second user
is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication, social-networking system 160 may
send a "friend request" to the second user. If the second user confirms the "friend request,"
social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 connecting the first user's user node 202
to the second user's user node 202 in social graph 200 and store edge 206 as social-graph
information in one or more of data stores 24. In the example of FIG. 2, social graph 200 includes
an edge 206 indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "A" and user "B" and an
edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "C" and user "B." Although this
disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting
particular user nodes 202, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable
attributes connecting user nodes 202. As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206
may represent a friendship, family relationship, business or employment relationship, fan
relationship,    follower     relationship,    visitor    relationship,   subscriber    relationship,
superior/subordinate relationship, reciprocal relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another
suitable type of relationship, or two or more such relationships. Moreover, although this
disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected, this disclosure also describes users or
concepts as being connected. Herein, references to users or concepts being connected may,
where appropriate, refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected
in social graph 200 by one or more edges 206.

                                                 13
         [32]   In particular embodiments, an edge 206 between a user node 202 and a concept
node 204 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user
node 202 toward a concept associated with a concept node 204. As an example and not by way
of limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 2, a user may "like," "attended," "played," "listened,"
"cooked," "worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to a edge type or
subtype. A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 204 may include, for example,
a selectable "check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check in" icon) or a selectable
"add to favorites" icon. Similarly, after a user clicks these icons, social-networking system 160
may create a "favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response to a user's action corresponding to
a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation, a user (user "C") may
listen to a particular song ("Ramble On") using a particular application (SPOTIFY, which is an
online music application). In this case, social-networking system 160 may create a "listened"
edge 206 and a "used" edge (as illustrated in FIG. 2) between user nodes 202 corresponding to
the user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the
user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover, social-networking system 160 may
create a "played" edge 206 (as illustrated in FIG. 2) between concept nodes 204 corresponding to
the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular
application. In this case, "played" edge 206 corresponds to an action performed by an external
application (SPOTIFY) on an external audio file (the song "Imagine"). Although this disclosure
describes particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting user nodes 202 and concept
nodes 204, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable attributes
connecting user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing a single relationship, this
disclosure contemplates edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing one
or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206 may represent
both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively, another edge 206 may
represent each type of relationship (or multiples of a single relationship) between a user node
202 and a concept node 204 (as illustrated in FIG. 2 between user node 202 for user "E" and
concept node 204 for "SPOTIFY").

                                                  14
         [33]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206
between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 in social graph 200. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile page (such as, for example, by using a web
browser or a special-purpose application hosted by the user's client system 130) may indicate
that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node 204 by clicking or selecting a
"Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to send to social-networking system
 160 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept associated with the concept-profile
page. In response to the message, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 between
user node 202 associated with the user and concept node 204, as illustrated by "like" edge 206
between the user and concept node 204. In particular embodiments, social-networking system
 160 may store an edge 206 in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments, an edge 206
may be automatically formed by social-networking system 160 in response to a particular user
action. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a
movie, or listens to a song, an edge 206 may be formed between user node 202 corresponding to
the first user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure
describes forming particular edges 206 in particular manners, this disclosure contemplates
forming any suitable edges 206 in any suitable manner.
         [34]   Verifying the location of a user of a mobile device can be an important part of
identifying a mobile device or a user of the mobile device. For example, data about events such
as a credit card swipe indicate that a user is performing an economic transaction at the location
of the terminal where the card is swiped. If other location determination methods indicate that
the user is in a different location, that information may call into question whether the user has
actually authorized the credit card swipe, or is instead being scammed or defrauded. If the user's
location can be independently verified, the merchant can be more certain that the transaction is
valid. In addition, the merchant can associate the located device or user with the transaction,
providing the user with an experience tailored to that user. As another example, access to a
wireless network may be limited to devices that are within a particular location, such as a
business. If a device accessing the wireless network appears to be doing so from a location
outside the business, such information may be an indicator that the device is gaining
unauthorized access to the wireless network. As another example, a targeted advertisement may

                                                  15
be displayed to select users at a given location. In order to display the advertisement to the
correct individuals, the locations of the individuals must be accurately confirmed. While this
disclosure describes specific examples of uses for identifying a mobile device, user of the mobile
device, or their locations, this disclosure contemplates any suitable uses for the location or
identify of a mobile device or user.
        [35]    The location of a user of a mobile device may be determined using any suitable
location determination method. In particular embodiments a location determination method may
involve radio-frequency identification (RFID) communication. For example, a mobile device
may have one or more RFID tags on or in the mobile device that communicates with an RFID
reader. A tag may be unique to the mobile device or may be configured to provide multiple
responses to an RFID reader, with each response being associated with one or more users of the
mobile device. In particular embodiments, a location determination method may include
scanning a barcode at a kiosk or other suitable terminal with a known location. For example, a
barcode may be unique to a user or otherwise identify the user, thus identifying the user's
location as that of the terminal used to scan the barcode. In particular embodiments, a location
determination method may include interaction between a user's mobile device and another
device, such as a Bluetooth device, a near-field communication (NFC) system, or another
electronic device in the vicinity of the mobile device. For example, the interaction may include
communicating location information of the mobile device. As another example, the interaction
may identify the mobile device to the other device (or vice versa). If the other device is in a
known location, then the location of the mobile device can be established. In particular
embodiments, a location determination method may include interaction between a user's mobile
device and network device with a known location. The interaction may identify the mobile
device, establishing that the mobile device is in the vicinity of the located network component.
The mobile device may be identified by any suitable method, such as by identifying the device's
media access control (MAC) address or the device's wifi ID. In particular embodiments, a
location determination method may be an interaction between the user and a device, such as a
user's credit card swipe at a terminal with a known location. As another example, an interaction
may establish the identity of the user, such as through biometric readers or voice recognition by a
device with a known location. In particular embodiments, a location determination method may

                                                 16
include locating a mobile device using GPS technology, triangulation of access points such as
cell towers or network devices, etc. In particular embodiments, a location determination method
may include advanced knowledge of the user's intended or estimated location, such as a
reservation for an event at a particular time (e.g. restaurant, theater, concert, etc). As another
example, a statement of a user's intentions such as on a social-networking system may include
information from which the user's actual or intended location may be determined. In particular
embodiments, a location determined method may include verifying the performance of explicit
instructions to the user. For example, a user of a wireless network may be instructed to go to a
specific location, and the user's performance (and thus location) may be validated by measuring
e.g. the wireless signal strength as the user moves towards and arrives at the location. In
particular embodiments, a location determination method may depend in part on information
about the user, such as that associated with a social-networking system. For example, if a user is
logged into a social-networking system, the system may be able to associate information about
the users' devices with the user, validating the user's location. For example, a device's MAC
address communicated with network access point may be associated with the user, and if the user
is logged into the social network on the device, then the social network may automatically
perform the association. As another example, an interaction with an RFID reader may
communicate information to an application on the user's mobile device, and that application may
be associated with the user by information contained in the social networking system. As another
example, a user may be tagged in posts, photos, or other content associated with a social
network, and the user's location may be determined from information associated with that tag,
such as from an explicit statement of the user's location made by another user of the social
network. In particular embodiments, a location determination method may include interaction
between a magnetic field and a user device having a compass or other suitable magnetometer. In
particular embodiments, the user can correlate their location using any other suitable location
determination method, such as the MAC address of the user's device. As an example, a kiosk in
a store can use a magnet stronger than the earth's magnetic field at store locations where a user is
located. If the phone's magnetometer detects the magnetic field, the user's mobile device can
send a message to the store's system correlating the spatially located MAC address and magnetic
detection with an event (such as transferring the an identifier associated with a social network to

                                                   17
a kiosk, making a purchase, etc.). In particular embodiments, instead of or in addition to a
magnet and magnetometer, a location determination method may include a kiosk or other
suitable device with a transducer that interacts with a user's mobile device. For example, the
transducer may create one or more vibrations or vibration patterns (for example, such as those
induced by tapping the device on the kiosk or other suitable device) which may be detected by an
accelerometer in the user's mobile device. As another example, the user's mobile device may
transmit one or more vibrations or vibration patterns to terminal, which are detected by a
transducer in the terminal. In particular embodiments, instead of or in addition to a magnet and
magnetometer, a location determination method may include the user' device having an ambient
light sensor, such as a camera, that detects frequency or intensity of ambient light. As an
example, the light may be created by a terminal or other suitable device,. As another example,
the user may photograph a barcode, such as a barcode produced by a terminal at a known
location, using a camera on a device equipped with a bar code reader. In particular embodiments,
instead of or in addition to a magnet and magnetometer, a location determination method may
include the user's mobile device transmitting light to e.g. a kiosk in a store, which may detect the
light to locate the device. For example, the device may transmit a particular frequency or
intensity of light or a particular pattern of flashes, which are detected by the kiosk. In particular
embodiments, instead of or in addition to a magnet and magnetometer, a location determination
method may include detection of a sound by the mobile device, such as a particular frequency,
duration, or pattern of sounds emitted by a kiosk. In addition or the alternative, the device may
emit the sounds, which are detected by e.g. the kiosk. In particular embodiments, instead of or in
addition to a magnet and magnetometer, a location determination method may include various
RF methods, such as those using an RFID system described above. In particular embodiments,
instead of or in addition to a magnet and magnetometer, a location determination method may
include an interaction of a user with a kiosk or other suitable device at a known location. For
example, the user may touch a particular pattern on a touch screen or particular portions of the
touch screen, which are detected by the touch screen and indicate the use's location. The pattern
may be displayed on e.g. a kiosk at a store for the user to contact. In particular embodiments,
instead of or in addition to a magnet and magnetometer, a location determination method may
include a store employee or other suitable individual indicating the presence of a user, such as by

                                                 18
selecting a photo of the user. In particular embodiments, such indication may not require
corroboration by another location determination method, such as by identifying a device's MAC
address. While this disclosure describes particular examples of location determination methods
or systems, this disclosure contemplates determining the location of a user by any suitable
location determination method or system.
         [36]   FIG. 3 illustrates an example method 300 for verifying the location of a mobile
device or user of the mobile device. The method may begin at step 310, where at least two
determined locations of the mobile device are accessed. The determined locations may be
determined by any suitable method or system, such as those described above. In particular
embodiments, the determined locations have been determined without reference to explicit
location information input by the user of the mobile device, such as geographic coordinates or a
particular place indicating the user's location and input by the user using a computing device, or
an explicit statement of the user's location such as a message or post on a social network stating
"I am at San Francisco airport." This disclosure contemplates that the determined locations may
be stored in and accessed from any suitable data storage structure in any suitable location, such
as on the user's mobile device or on one or more remote servers, hard drives, etc. In particular
embodiments, access to such information may be restricted, for example by a user's privacy
settings.
         [37]   At step 320, at least two determined locations are compared against each other. In
particular embodiments, several determined locations may each be compared against each other.
For example, four determined locations may be accessed and compared to each other, resulting
in six comparisons. In particular embodiments, comparisons are performed between two
determined locations only when the methods used to determine those locations use different
location input. For example, if one location is determined using RFID communication and
another is determined using a WiFi signal then those two determinations may be compared. If
both locations were determined using the same method and using the same location
determination input, then the comparison would not be made. However, it should be noted that a
single location event may generate different location determination input, and locations
determined using that separate input may be compared. For example, a single RFID
communication may communicate information about a RFID tag and also communicate

                                                19
information about the device's MAC address, each of which are separate location determination
inputs.   In particular embodiments, comparisons may be performed between two determined
locations only when both locations have been determined within a predetermined time of the
comparison. For example, stale location determinations may be excluded from comparison. A
predetermined time may be set by the entity executing the method, an entity interested in the
results of comparison (e.g. bank, merchant, advertiser, etc.), by the user, etc. This disclosure
contemplates comparison of location determinations being made by any suitable computing
device using any suitable method or algorithm of comparing sets or items of data. For example,
the comparison may be made by the user's mobile device or by one or more remote computing
devices such as servers, remote desktops, etc.
        [38]    At step 330, one or more functionalities associated with the mobile device or user
of the mobile device are allowed when one or more comparisons of step 320 reveal that the
compared location correspond to each other . In particular embodiments, the precision required
for two determined locations to correspond to each other may be adjustable, for example by an
entity interested in the results of the comparison or by the user of the mobile device. For
example, a bank may require a more precise match than an advertiser. In particular
embodiments, precision information may be determined from information associated with nodes
or edge of a social-network. In particular embodiments, the precision required for two
determined locations to correspond to each other may depend on one or both of the location
determination methods used. A less sensitive location determination method may result in a
lower degree of precision required. For example, if one location determination method is
accurate to 10 meters and second method is accurate to 5 meters, then the determined locations
may agree when the determined locations are within 15 meters of each other. More stringent
requirements may also be used.
        [39]    In particular embodiments, comparisons may be averaged, may be weighted, or
not all comparisons may be used (e.g. only top rated comparisons may be used) to determine
whether determined locations sufficiently correspond. In particular embodiments, functionality
may be allowed when a predetermined number or percentage of comparisons agree with each
other, such as for example when 75% or more comparisons correspond, taking into account
precision requirements discussed above.

                                                20
        [40]   Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 3,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the
method of FIG. 3 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIG. 3 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps
of the method of FIG. 3, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable
components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 3.
        [41]   Fig. 4 illustrates an example method 400 for verifying the location of a mobile
device, using a specific example of comparing two example location determination methods. The
method may begin at step 410, where the location of a mobile device is determined by the mobile
device's interaction with a merchant's RFID reader at a kiosk at a known location. The user of
the mobile device logs onto the merchant's wireless network, and at step 420 one of the
merchant's wireless network access points at a known location determines the mobile device's
MAC address, which is associated with the mobile device. The user of the mobile device decides
to purchase something from the merchant and attempts to check the balance in his bank account
by using his mobile device to access his account information. At step 430, the location
determined by the interaction between the mobile device and the merchant's RFID kiosk is
accessed. At step 440, the location determined by the merchant's wireless network access point
is accessed. At step 450 the two locations are compared to each other. At step 460, if the two
locations correspond to each other (perhaps taking into account the precision associated with
each location determination method), the user is allowed to log in to his banking account.
        [42]   Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 4,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the
method of FIG. 4 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIG. 4 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps
of the method of FIG. 4, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable
components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 4.
        [43]   While the example method described above describes allowing functionality
associated with the mobile device when two or more location determinations sufficiently

                                                 21
correspond, steps 310 and 320 (and of course, steps 430-450) may be performed to determine
when two or more location determinations do not sufficiently correspond, in which case a
functionality associated with the mobile device may be prohibited. In particular embodiments, if
every pair of compared location determinations do not sufficiently correspond, a functionality
may be prohibited. In particular embodiments, when any two compared location determinations
do not sufficiently correspond, a functionality may be prohibited. For example, a functionality
may be prohibited if several location determinations correspond with each other but anther
location determination disagrees with the others, particularly when the disagreement is large,
taking into account precision requirements for the prohibition of a functionality. Such precision
requirements may be the same as or different then the precision requirements to allow a
functionality. In particular embodiments, a functionality may be prohibited when select ones of
the comparisons do not sufficiently correspond, for example when the number of corresponding
comparisons falls below a predetermined threshold, such as 25%.
        [44]    In particular embodiments, a functionality associated with a user or a mobile
device may include access to secure data. Secure data may include settings on the user's mobile
device, a user's settings or preferences related to a software application (such as a social
networking application), information about a user's account (such as a bank account, online store
account, etc), personal information about the user (such as passwords), or any other suitable
secure data. In particular embodiments, a functionally associated with a user or a mobile device
may include accessing a network or device by a secure connection, such as accessing a website
over a https connection, accessing a secured network, etc. In particular embodiments, a
functionality associated with a user or a mobile device may include the ability to engage in
economic transactions, such as the ability to purchase something from an online or physical
store, the ability to deposit or withdraw money from an account, etc. While this disclose
describes specific examples of functionality that may be allowed or prohibited, this disclosure
contemplates allowing or prohibiting any suitable functionality.
        [45]    In particular embodiments, allowing or prohibiting a functionality may be based
on trust factors associated with determined locations. For example, each determined location
may have an associated trust factor indicating the trustworthiness of the determined location,
such as e.g. the ease with which the location can be spoofed, whether the determined location has

                                                   22
been authorized (such as by being associated with the location of a credit card terminal under the
control of a merchant or a network device under control of a trusted network provider), etc. In
particular embodiments, allowing or prohibiting a functionality may be based on the trust factor
of a single determined location. For example, having one determined location with a very high
trust factor and that corresponds to another determined location as described in step 330 may be
sufficient to allow the functionality. In particular embodiments, allowing or prohibiting a
functionality may be based on the trust factors associated with each of two compared determined
locations. For example, a functionality may be allowed if each determined location in a
comparison has a sufficiently high trust factor associated with the determination. As another
example, a functionality may be allowed when a certain number of percentage of the
comparisons include determined locations having a sufficiently high trust factor associated with
the determination. In particular embodiments, allowing or prohibiting a functionality may be
based on a degree of correspondence between comparisons. For example, an overall trust factor
may be determined based on how well two or more comparisons agree with each other. In
particular embodiments, allowing or prohibiting a functionality may be based on an overall trust
factor having a higher (or lower) value than a predetermined trust-factor threshold. For example,
the overall trust factor may be based on the trust factors associated with the trust factors of the
compared determined locations and the results of those comparisons. In particular embodiments,
trust factors may be determined from information associated with a social-networking system
(such as user settings or preferences), information about the reliability of locations determined
using particular methods or from particular places generally, or information associated with
user's having one or more characteristics similar to the user whose location or mobile device
location is being determined.
         [46]    FIG. 5 illustrates an example computer system 500. In particular embodiments,
one or more computer systems 500 perform one or more steps of one or more methods described
or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 500 provide
functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one
or more computer systems 500 performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated   herein  or provides     functionality   described or illustrated herein.   Particular
embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems 500. Herein,

                                                  23
reference to a computer system may encompass a computing device, and vice versa, where
appropriate. Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer
systems, where appropriate.
         [47]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 500. This
disclosure contemplates computer system 500 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may be an embedded computer system, a system
on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on
module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA),        a server, a tablet computer system, or a
combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system 500 may include one
or more computer systems 500; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple
machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud
components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 500
may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more
computer systems 500 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 500 may perform
at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein, where appropriate.
         [48]   In particular embodiments, computer system 500 includes a processor 502,
memory 504, storage 506, an input/output (I/O) interface 508, a communication interface 510,
and a bus 512. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system
having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.
         [49]   In particular embodiments, processor 502 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 502 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an
internal register, an internal cache, memory 504, or storage 506; decode and execute them; and

                                                 24
then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 504, or storage
506. In particular embodiments, processor 502 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 502 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 502 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches,
and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may
be copies of instructions in memory 504 or storage 506, and the instruction caches may speed up
retrieval of those instructions by processor 502. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in
memory 504 or storage 506 for instructions executing at processor 502 to operate on; the results
of previous instructions executed at processor 502 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 502 or for writing to memory 504 or storage 506; or other suitable data.
The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 502. The TLBs may speed
up virtual-address translation for processor 502. In particular embodiments, processor 502 may
include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 502 including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 502 may include one or more arithmetic logic
units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 502. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable processor.
         [50]   In particular embodiments, memory 504 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 502 to execute or data for processor 502 to operate on. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may load instructions from storage 506 or
another source (such as, for example, another computer system 500) to memory 504. Processor
502 may then load the instructions from memory 504 to an internal register or internal cache. To
execute the instructions, processor 502 may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or
internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor 502 may
write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or
internal cache. Processor 502 may then write one or more of those results to memory 504. In
particular embodiments, processor 502 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 504 (as opposed to storage 506 or elsewhere) and

                                                   25
operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 504 (as
opposed to storage 506 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an
address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 502 to memory 504. Bus 512 may include one
or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory
management units (MMUs) reside between processor 502 and memory 504 and facilitate
accesses to memory 504 requested by processor 502. In particular embodiments, memory 504
includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate
Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM).
Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 504 may include one or more memories
504, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
         [51]    In particular embodiments, storage 506 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 506 may include a hard disk
drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these.
Storage 506 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate.
Storage 506 may be internal or external to computer system 500, where appropriate. In particular
embodiments, storage 506 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments,
storage 506 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask
programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically
erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a
combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 506 taking any
suitable physical form. Storage 506 may include one or more storage control units facilitating
communication between processor 502 and storage 506, where appropriate. Where appropriate,
storage 506 may include one or more storages 506. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
         [52]    In particular embodiments, 1/0 interface 508 includes hardware, software, or both,
providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 500 and one or
more 1/0 devices. Computer system 500 may include one or more of these I/O devices, where

                                                 26
appropriate. One or more of these I/O devices may enable communication between a person and
computer system 500. As an example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus,
tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable 1/0 device or a combination of two
or more of these. An I/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable 1/0 devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 508 for them. Where appropriate, 1/0
interface 508 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 502 to
drive one or more of these I/O devices. 1/0 interface 508 may include one or more I/O interfaces
508, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular 1/0
interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O interface.
         [53]    In particular embodiments, communication interface 510 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 500 and one or more other computer
systems 500 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 510 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI
network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
interface 510 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may
communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network
(LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or
more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 500 may
communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a
WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a
Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network
or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 500 may include any suitable
communication interface 510 for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication
interface 510 may include one or more communication interfaces 510, where appropriate.

                                                 27
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.
         [54]   In particular embodiments, bus 512 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
components of computer system 500 to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation,
bus 512 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT
(HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect,
a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced
technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus,
or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 512 may include one or
more buses 512, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular
bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
         [55]   Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may include
one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for example, field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives
(HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical
discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes, solid
state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any other suitable
computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable combination of two or more of
these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile,
non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
Further Embodiments
         [56]   One embodiment provides a method comprising:
                by one or more computing devices, accessing a plurality of determinations of the
        location of a user of a mobile computing device, each determined location having been
        determined without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of
        the mobile computing device,

                                                  28
                 by one or more computing devices, comparing a first determined location with at
        least one second determined location, the first determined location having been
        determined based on first location determination input, each of the second determined
        locations having been determined without reference to the first location determination
        input; and
                 by one or more computing devices, allowing a functionality associated with the
        mobile computing device or the user of the mobile computing device when the first
        determined location corresponds to one or more of the second determined locations.
        [57]     In one arrangement, the first determined location and at least one of the second
determined locations were determined within a predetermined time of the comparison.
        [58]     In one arrangement, the first location determination input comprises one or more
of:
                 communication between the mobile computing device and a radio-frequency
        identification system;
                 communication      between the mobile      computing device      and   a near-field
        communication system;
                 communication between the mobile computing device and a wireless network
        device;
                  a GPS determination; or
                 information associated with an economic transaction associated with the user.
        [59]     In one arrangement, the user is a user of social network comprising a social graph
that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one node in the
social graph corresponding to the user; and
        at least one of the first or second determined location is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
        [60]     In one arrangement, the first determined location corresponds to one of the one or
more second determined locations when the correspondence is within a predetermined precision.
        [61]     In one arrangement, the precision is based on one or both of the method used to
determine the first determined location and the method used to determine one of the one or more
second determined locations.

                                                   29
        [62]    In one arrangement, the functionality comprises one or more of:
                 accessing one or more settings associated with mobile computing device;
                 accessing one or more accounts associated with the user;
                 accessing restricted or secure data;
                 accessing restricted or secure networks;
                 accessing an application on the mobile computing device;
                 communicating, using the mobile computing device, with another computing
        device;
                 providing information relating to the user to a third party;
                 providing information related to the third party to the user or
                 engaging in economic transactions.
        [63]    In one arrangement, allowing the functionality further comprises:
                 by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a first trust factor
        associated with the first determined location;
                 for each of the second determined locations:
                 by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a second trust factor
        associated with the second determined location;
                 by one or more computing devices, determining a value of a third trust factor
        based on the first trust factor, second trust factor, and the comparison; and
                 by one or more computing devices, allowing the functionality when the value of
        one or more of the third trust factors exceed a value of a predetermined trust-factor
        threshold associated with the functionality.
        [64]    In one arrangement, the user is a user of social network comprising a social graph
that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one node in the
social graph corresponding to the user; and
        at least one of the first, second, or third trust factor is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
        [65]    In one arrangement, the user is a user of social network comprising a social graph
that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one node in the
social graph corresponding to the user; and

                                                  30
        the value of the predetermined trust-factor threshold is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
        [66]    Another embodiment provides a method comprising:
                by one or more computing devices, accessing a plurality of determinations of the
       location of a user of a mobile computing device, each determined location having been
       determined without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of
       the mobile computing device,
                by one or more computing devices, comparing a first determined location with at
       least one second determined location, the first determined location having been
       determined based on first location determination input, each of the second determined
       locations having been determined without reference to the first location determination
       input; and
                by one or more computing devices, preventing a functionality associated with the
       mobile computing device or a user of the mobile computing device when the first
        determined location does not correspond to one or more of the second determined
       locations.
        [67]    In one arrangement, the first determined location and at least one of the second
determined locations were determined within a predetermined time of the comparison.
        [68]    In one arrangement, the first location determination input comprises one or more
of:
                communication between the mobile computing device and a radio-frequency
       identification system;
                communication     between the mobile        computing device      and   a near-field
       communication system;
                communication between the mobile computing device and a wireless network
       device;
                 a GPS determination; or
                information associated with an economic transaction associated with the user.

                                                     31
        [69]     In one arrangement, the user is a user of social network comprising a social graph
that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one node in the
social graph corresponding to the user; and
        at least one of the first or second determined location is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
        [70]     In one arrangement, the first determined location corresponds to one of the one or
more second determined locations when the correspondence is within a predetermined precision.
        [71]     In one arrangement, the precision is based on one or both of the method used to
determine the first determined location and the method used to determine one of the one or more
second determined locations.
        [72]     In one arrangement, the functionality comprises one or more of:
                  accessing one or more settings associated with mobile computing device;
                  accessing one or more accounts associated with the user;
                  accessing restricted or secure data;
                 accessing restricted or secure networks;
                 accessing an application on the mobile computing device;
                 communicating, using the mobile computing device, with another computing
        device;
                 providing information relating to the user to a third party;
                 providing information related to the third party to the user; or
                 engaging in economic transactions.
        [73]     In one arrangement, prohibiting the functionality further comprises:
                 by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a first trust factor
        associated with the first determined location;
                 for each of the second determined locations:
                         by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a second trust
                 factor associated with the second determined location;
                         by one or more computing devices, determining a value of a third trust
                 factor based on the first trust factor, second trust factor, and the comparison; and

                                                    32
                        by one or more computing devices, prohibiting the functionality when the
                 value of one or more of the third trust factors falls below a value of a
                 predetermined trust-factor threshold associated with the functionality.
         [74]    In one arrangement, the user is a user of social network comprising a social graph
that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one node in the
social graph corresponding to the user; and
         at least one of the first, second, or third trust factor is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
         [75]    In one arrangement, the user is a user of social network comprising a social graph
that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one node in the
social graph corresponding to the user; and
         the value of the predetermined trust-factor threshold is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
Miscellaneous
         [76]    Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise
or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint
and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,
herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context.
         [77]    The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a
person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not
limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may include
any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, functions, operations, or
steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a

                                                33
component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to,
enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus,
system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or
unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable,
configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                                 34
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1. A method comprising:
        by one or more computing devices, accessing a plurality of determinations of the location
of a user of a mobile computing device, each determined location having been determined
without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of the mobile
computing device,
        by one or more computing devices, comparing a first determined location with at least
one second determined location, the first determined location having been determined based on
first location determination input, each of the second determined locations having been
determined without reference to the first location determination input; and
        by one or more computing devices, allowing a functionality associated with the mobile
computing device or the user of the mobile computing device when the first determined location
corresponds to one or more of the second determined locations.
        2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the first determined location and at least one of the
second determined locations were determined within a predetermined time of the comparison.
         3.  The method of either one of Claim 1 and Claim 2, wherein the first location
determination input comprises one or more of:
        communication    between    the mobile      computing   device   and  a  radio-frequency
identification system;
        communication between the mobile computing device and a near-field communication
system;
        communication between the mobile computing device and a wireless network device;
        a GPS determination; or
        information associated with an economic transaction associated with the user.

                                                   35
         4. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the user is a user of social network
comprising a social graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes,
with at least one node in the social graph corresponding to the user; and
         at least one of the first or second determined location is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
         5. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the first determined location
corresponds to one of the one or more second determined locations when the correspondence is
within a predetermined precision.
         6. The method of Claim 5, wherein the precision is based on one or both of the method
used to determine the first determined location and the method used to determine one of the one
or more second determined locations.
         7. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the functionality comprises one or
more of:
         accessing one or more settings associated with mobile computing device;
         accessing one or more accounts associated with the user;
         accessing restricted or secure data;
         accessing restricted or secure networks;
         accessing an application on the mobile computing device;
         communicating, using the mobile computing device, with another computing device;
         providing information relating to the user to a third party;
         providing information related to the third party to the user; or
         engaging in economic transactions.
         8. The method of any one of Claims I to 7, wherein allowing the functionality further
comprises:
         by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a first trust factor associated with
the first determined location;

                                                   36
        for each of the second determined locations:
                by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a second trust factor
        associated with the second determined location;
                by one or more computing devices, determining a value of a third trust factor
        based on the first trust factor, second trust factor, and the comparison; and
        by one or more computing devices, allowing the functionality when the value of one or
more of the third trust factors exceed a value of a predetermined trust-factor threshold associated
with the functionality.
        9. The method of Claim 8, wherein the user is a user of social network comprising a
social graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one
node in the social graph corresponding to the user; and
        at least one of the first, second, or third trust factor is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
         10. The method of Claim 8, wherein the user is a user of social network comprising a
social graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one
node in the social graph corresponding to the user; and
        the value of the predetermined trust-factor threshold is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
        11. A method comprising:
        by one or more computing devices, accessing a plurality of determinations of the location
of a user of a mobile computing device, each determined location having been determined
without reference to explicit location information manually input by a user of the mobile
computing device,
        by one or more computing devices, comparing a first determined location with at least
one second determined location, the first determined location having been determined based on
first location determination input, each of the second determined locations having been
determined without reference to the first location determination input; and

                                                   37
        by one or more computing devices, preventing a functionality associated with the mobile
computing device or a user of the mobile computing device when the first determined location
does not correspond to one or more of the second determined locations.
         12. The method of Claim 11, wherein the first determined location and at least one of the
second determined locations were determined within a predetermined time of the comparison.
         13.   The method of either one of Claim 11 and Claim 12, wherein the first location
determination input comprises one or more of:
        communication       between     the  mobile   computing    device   and  a  radio-frequency
identification system;
        communication between the mobile computing device and a near-field communication
system;
        communication between the mobile computing device and a wireless network device;
        a GPS determination; or
        information associated with an economic transaction associated with the user.
         14.   The method of any one of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the user is a user of social
network comprising a social graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the
nodes, with at least one node in the social graph corresponding to the user; and
         at least one of the first or second determined location is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
         15. The method of any one of Claims 11 to 14, wherein the first determined location
corresponds to one of the one or more second determined locations when the correspondence is
within a predetermined precision.
         16. The method of Claim 15, wherein the precision is based on one or both of the method
used to determine the first determined location and the method used to determine one of the one
or more second determined locations.

                                                    38
         17. The method of any one of Claims II to 16, wherein the functionality comprises one
or more of:
         accessing one or more settings associated with mobile computing device;
         accessing one or more accounts associated with the user;
         accessing restricted or secure data;
         accessing restricted or secure networks;
         accessing an application on the mobile computing device;
         communicating, using the mobile computing device, with another computing device;
         providing information relating to the user to a third party;
         providing information related to the third party to the user; or
         engaging in economic transactions.
         18. The method of any one of Claims 11 to 17, wherein prohibiting the functionality
further comprises:
         by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a first trust factor associated with
the first determined location;
         for each of the second determined locations:
                 by one or more computing devices, accessing a value of a second trust factor
         associated with the second determined location;
                 by one or more computing devices, determining a value of a third trust factor
         based on the first trust factor, second trust factor, and the comparison; and
         by one or more computing devices, prohibiting the functionality when the value of one or
more of the third trust factors falls below a value of a predetermined trust-factor threshold
associated with the functionality.
         19. The method of Claim 18, wherein the user is a user of social network comprising a
social graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one
node in the social graph corresponding to the user; and

                                                   39
        at least one of the first, second, or third trust factor is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
        20. The method of Claim 18, wherein the user is a user of social network comprising a
social graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, with at least one
node in the social graph corresponding to the user; and
        the value of the predetermined trust-factor threshold is determined based on information
associated with at least one of the plurality of nodes or edges in the social-networking system.
                                        Facebook, Inc.
                                By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                      COTTERS
                                   Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
