                                             1
Scaffold Identification Tag a Clay Composition Ink Panels
                                     ABSTRACT
A Scaffold Identification Tag embedded with a panel of Ink receptive material that is
suitable for use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised
of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment
contained in a binder is constructed into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold
Identification tags construction.

                                     1
FIG.1
      Scaffolddetifictioard
                                       panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for use with a
      Printed Information Boxes        wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be
                                       comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or
                                1'
                                       other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder
                                       is constructed into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the
                                       Scaffold Identification tags construction.
                                  20-3m

1
                                                      2
Scaffold Identification Tag a Clay Composition Ink Panels
                       CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] Not applicable
REFERENCE REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
[0002] Not applicable
                                        SEQUENTIAL LISTING
[0003] Not applicable
                              BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
1. Field of the Disclosure
[0004] the present disclosure relates to a Scaffold Identification Tag with a panel of Ink receptive
material that is suitable for use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be
comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment
contained in a binder. The embedded panel allows the use of Ball point pens to mark permanently
upon the Scaffold Identification Tag. The panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for use with
a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium
dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder is constructed into the
Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold Identification tags construction.
2. Description of the Background of the Disclosure
[0005] Various Scaffold Identification systems are known in the prior art, which comprise a plastic
Tag to be filled in manually using a permanent marker pen. For example, in one type of a well-known
system a plastic Tag that is green on one side and yellow on the other is manufactured with pre
printed sections that are manually filled in with a Permanent marker pen. The design of the tag limits
the type of pen that can be used to mark the Tag.
[0006] the disadvantage to this prior art is the cost of and availability of securing the permanent
markers that are suited to this purpose. As a result, Tags are often filled in with marker pens not
suited for the task, leading to non-legible information.

                                                      3
OBJECTIVE OF THE INVENTION
[0008] It is the objective of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the above disadvantages.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0009] There is disclosed herein a Scaffold Identification Card, comprising:
A Scaffold Identification tag;
Where in a panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for use with a wide variety of inks, typically
(but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light
coloured pigment contained in a binder is constructed into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the
Scaffold Identification tags construction.
The tag can be marked with a ball point pen so someone looking to find information about the
Scaffolders who erected the Scaffold, company who owns the Scaffold, persons to contact regarding
use of the Scaffold, can be easily read from a panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for use
with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium carbonate,
titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder that is constructed
into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold Identification tags construction.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0010] A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of an
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
[0011-0015] (intentionally left blank)
[0016] FIG. 1 is an isometric view of the front of Scaffold Identification tag with a panel of Ink
receptive material that is suitable for use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be
comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment
contained in a binder is constructed into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold Identification
tags construction.
FIG. 2 is an isometric view of the rear of Scaffold Identification tag with a panel of Ink receptive
material that is suitable for use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be
comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment
contained in a binder is constructed into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold Identification
tags construction.

                                                      4
                                      INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0017]            the Scaffold Identification Tag system described herein advantageously allows the
accurate marking and easy reading of accurate information about the Scaffold it is attached to.
[0018]            those skilled in the art of but not limited to Scaffolding, are aware of the problems of
cost, sourcing, securing and using appropriate permanent marker pens suitable for marking existing
Scaffold Information Tags
[0019]            the addition of a panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for use with a wide
variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium
dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder is constructed into the
Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold Identification tags construction will increase the ease of
marking Scaffold Identification Tags. It will decrease the time involved in inspecting Scaffolds. It will
increase the accuracy of Scaffold inspection reporting and decrease the likelihood of an incident
involving a Scaffold that should not have been used or was recorded as dismantled.
[0020]            the combination of a panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for use with a
wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium
dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder is constructed into the
Scaffold Tag at the time of the Scaffold Identification tags construction will increase the accuracy of
Scaffold records, including but not limited to Scaffolds erected, modified, Scaffolds inspected and
dismantled.
[0021]            Scaffold companies will be able to reduce costs and increase the range, type and
availability of marking tools to accurately mark Scaffold Identification Tags as required.

                                                 5
Claims (3)
1) An assembly of a Plastic Scaffolding Identification Tag component and a panel of Ink
receptive material that is suitable for use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited
to) be comprised of clay, calcium carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured
pigment contained in a binder that is constructed into the Scaffold Tag at the time of the
Scaffold Identification tags construction.
2) The Scaffold Identification Tag with a panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for
use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium
carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder.
The Ink receptive layer described enables the use of Ball Point Ink Pens to permanently
mark the Scaffold Identification Tag.
3) The Scaffold Identification Tag with a panel of Ink receptive material that is suitable for
use with a wide variety of inks, typically (but not limited to) be comprised of clay, calcium
carbonate, titanium dioxide or other white or light-coloured pigment contained in a binder.
The Ink receptive layer described enables the use of Permanent Marker Pens to
permanently mark the Scaffold Identification Tag.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
