                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
       Systems and methods for shielding a metal detector head include placement of
conductive shielding around the coils of the head to reduce the effects of capacitance variation
between the coils and their surroundings.

130
420
 4 1 D.........         ....
                 FIG. 4
                4/12

                    SHIELDINGS FOR METAL DETECTOR HEADS AND
                           MANUFACTURING METHODS THEREOF
Related Application
         [001]    This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2014295310, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the disclosure
of that application is included herein. However, reference may be made to the specification of
that application as filed to gain further understanding of the invention claimed herein.
Field
         [002]    The present disclosure is directed to the field of mine and metal detection and,
more particularly, towards systems and methods for shielding a metal detector head.
Background
         [003]    In the field of mine and metal detection, a detector can be sensitive to changes
in capacitive coupling between coils in the detector and the environment.
                                             SUMMARY
         [004]    In one aspect, a metal detector head consistent with the disclosure can include a
transmit-receive coil assembly and shielding positioned between the transmit-receive coil
assembly and an external environment. In an aspect, the transmit-receive coil assembly can
include at least one receive coil and at least one transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in
spaced relation with the receive coil. Further, in an aspect the shielding can be configured to be
flexible, conductive, and non-magnetic, where the shielding is configured to stabilize
capacitance between the shielding and the at least one receive coil and the at least one transmit
coil. Furthermore, the shielding can be configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head
from changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
         [005]    In another aspect, a metal detector head consistent with the disclosure can
include a transmit-receive coil assembly, and shielding including at least one wiring pattern
formed on at least one printed circuit board. In an aspect, the transmit-receive coil assembly can
include at least one receive coil and at least one transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in
spaced relation with the receive coil. Further, in an aspect, the shielding can be positioned
between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an external environment, where the shielding is
configured to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the at least one receive coil and the
                                                 -1 -

at least one transmit coil. Furthermore, the shielding can be configured to reduce effect on the
metal detector head from changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
         [006]    In another aspect, a method for manufacturing a shielded metal detector head
consistent with the disclosure can include assembling a metal detector head including a housing
having a transmit-receive coil assembly, the transmit-receive coil assembly including at least one
receive coil and at least one transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in spaced relation with the
receive coil, and placing shielding between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an external
environment to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the at least one receive coil and
at least one transmit coil. In an aspect, the shielding can be configured to be flexible, conductive,
and non-magnetic, and can further be configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head
from changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
         [007]    In an additional aspect, a method for manufacturing a shielded metal detector
head consistent with the disclosure can include assembling a metal detector head including a
housing having a transmit-receive coil assembly, the transmit-receive coil assembly including at
least one receive coil and at least one transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in spaced relation
with the receive coil, and placing shielding between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an
external environment. In an aspect, the shielding can include wiring patterns formed on at least
one printed circuit board, where the shielding is fixed between the transmit-receive coil
assembly and the external environment to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the at
least one receive coil and at least one transmit coil. Furthermore, in an aspect, the shielding can
be configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head from changing capacitance caused by
objects in the external environment.
         [008]    Additional advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description
which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of
the invention. The objects and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by
means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.
         [009]    It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the
following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the
invention, as claimed.
         [010]    The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of
this specification, illustrate several embodiments of the invention and together with the
description, serve to explain the principles of the invention.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [011]    Fig. 1 is a schematic representation of an exploded perspective view of a metal
detector head according to a disclosed implementation;
                                                  -2-

        [012]    Fig. 2 is a schematic representation of a bottom perspective view of a metal
detector head, with bottom cover removed, according to a disclosed implementation;
        [013]    Fig. 3 is a schematic representation of a side perspective view of a transmit coil
form including coil wire wrapped around the form according to a disclosed implementation;
        [014]    Fig. 4 is a schematic representation of a side elevational view of a receive coil
form including coil wire wrapped around the form and glued to produce the coil according to a
disclosed implementation;
        [015]    Figs. 5A and 5B are a top perspective view, and a close-up perspective view,
respectively, of an assembled metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation;
        [016]    Fig. 6 is a schematic representation illustrating mesh shielding on the bottom
side of a bottom cover of a metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation;
        [017]    Fig. 7 is a schematic representation of a view of an assembled metal detector
head from the bottom with shielding that is substantially covered by planar elements according
to a disclosed implementation;
        [018]    Fig. 8 is a schematic representation of a close up view of the bottom cover
shown in Fig. 7, showing an exposed portion of mesh shielding and bonding material, according
to a disclosed implementation;
        [019]    Fig. 9 is a schematic representation illustrating shielding comprised of printed
wiring patterns on a bottom cover of a metal detector head according to a disclosed
implementation;
        [020]    Fig. 10 is a schematic representation of exemplary wiring patterns of shielding
comprised of printed wiring according to a disclosed implementation; and
        [021]    Fig. 11 is a schematic representation illustrating shielding on a rectangular
cuboid metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation.
                          DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
        [022]    Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments (exemplary
embodiments) consistent with the disclosure, examples of which are illustrated in the
accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used
throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.
        [023]    Embodiments of exemplary metal detection ("MD") heads will now be
discussed with reference to Figs. 1 - 8. Fig. 1 illustrates a schematic representation of an
exploded perspective view of a metal detector head 102 according to a disclosed
implementation. The metal detector head 102 can include a top cover 110, a bottom cover 140,
and a transmit-receive coil assembly 104. The coil assembly can be formed of a first transmit
coil form 120 and one or more receive coil forms 130 (two are shown in the drawings), which
                                                  -3-

can also include receive coil form stiffeners 134 inserted within the receive coil forms 130 to
provide a more rigid structure. The coil forms are shown in Fig. 1 as being substantially box
shaped (square or rectangular), though they may be "D"-shaped, or take other forms known to
those of skill in the art. The exemplary receive coil assembly is shown formed as two box
shaped halves. The receive coil can extend around the inside or the outside of the outer
circumference of both of the receive coil forms 130. The receive coil can be arranged such that
current in the receive coil flows in a figure eight pattern through multiple turns of the receive
coil, with current flowing through the portions of the coil between the receive coil forms 130 in
the same direction. The transmit coil can extend around the outer circumference of both of the
receive coil forms 130 on the outside or inside of the transmit coil form 120. The coil forms and
wiring can be as thin as possible consistent with structural and electrical requirements in order to
minimize weight and extraneous electromagnetic effects.
        [024]     With the exception of the coils and other electrical/working components, the
structural components of the head 102 can be formed of any suitable materials that provide
thermal and mechanical stability. For example, the structural components can be formed of
fiberglass, plastics including thermoplastics such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC), ABS plastic, etc.,
and other known materials.
        [025]     Referring now to Fig. 2, a schematic representation of a bottom perspective
view of a metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation is shown. Illustrated is a
bottom view down into the top cover 110 of the assembly or housing 102, with the bottom cover
removed. According to the exemplary implementation of Fig. 2, two receive coil form stiffeners
134, and the corresponding receive coil forms, can be used, though those of skill in the art will
recognize that more or less such elements can be used. Receive coil form stiffeners and
corresponding forms can include a cavity (shown here on the bottom) or otherwise be hollow to
provide for a lightweight head assembly. As set forth above, the receive coil form stiffeners 134
can be inserted within the receive coil forms 130 to provide a more rigid structure. The receive
coil forms 130 and the receive coil form stiffeners 134 can be formed of any suitable materials
that support the coils, provide rigidity/mechanical stability, and enable the inductance to be
maintained constant or fixed. These elements can be made of any non-magnetic and non
conductive materials, as set forth elsewhere herein.
        [026]     Fig. 3 is a schematic representation of a side perspective view of a transmit coil
form 120 including wire 310 wrapped around the form according to a disclosed implementation.
A bonding agent such as glue can be employed to bond wire 310 to transmit coil form 120. The
wires or traces 310 can be formed of conductive, metallic material such as copper in accordance
with existing technology. If the wiring is to be achieved by patterning, known technologies such
as chemical etching can be used.
                                                 -4-

        [027]     Fig. 4 is a schematic representation of a side elevation view of a receive coil
form 130 including wire 410 wrapped around the form 130 and which can be bonded with a
bonding agent 420 such as glue to produce the coil according to a disclosed implementation. In
the disclosed implementation, two such receive coils can be used in the MD head, providing a
receive coil assembly formed from two box- or D-shaped halves. Connectors (not shown) can
connect the wires or traces on the two receive coils such that an induced current flows in
opposite directions in the two coils. Alternatively, the receive coil can be wrapped in a figure
eight pattern through multiple turns of the coil assembly around the two receive coil forms 130.
Both of these arrangements are referred to in the art as quadrupole configurations. The wires or
traces 410 can be formed of conducting, metallic material such as copper, in accordance with
existing technology. If the wiring is to be achieved by patterning, known techniques such as
chemical etching may be used.
        [028]     Additional implementations of transmit and receive coil structures can be used,
including but not limited to receive quadrupole coil(s) made using multilayer printed circuit
board technology inside a transmit dipole coil constructed of wire wound or wrapped on a rigid
form. In general, other coil configurations, such as two or more receive quadrupole coils inside a
single transmit dipole coil, are all examples within the scope of the present disclosure, each
exhibiting advantages and disadvantages for application in specified circumstances. In one
alternative implementation, for example, the transmit coil can be formed in a simple box-shaped,
circular, or other pattern on a separate substrate surrounding a single receive coil such that the
receive coil is aligned with an axis of symmetry of the transmit coil.
        [029]      In implementations discussed herein, the receive coil can be in a quadrupole
configuration, with the transmit coil in a dipole configuration. Further details of the designs and
implementations of a MD sensor in a quadrupole configuration are discussed in at least the
following papers, all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety in this
application: "Broadband Electromagnetic Induction Sensor for Detecting Buried Landmine,"
Waymond R. Scott, Jr.; "New Cancellation Technique for Electromagnetic Induction Sensors,"
Waymond R. Scott, Jr., and Michael Malluck; "Broadband Array of Electromagnetic Induction
Sensors for Detecting Buried Landmines," Waymond R. Scott, Jr.; "Location Estimation Using
A Broadband Electromagnetic Induction Array," Ali C. Gurbuz, Waymond R. Scott, Jr., and
James H. McClellan; "Beamforming Array for Detecting Buried Land Mines," Seung-Ho Lee
and Waymond R. Scott, Jr.; "Combined Seismic, Radar, and Induction Sensor for Landmine
Detection," Waymond R. Scott, Jr.; Kangwook Kim, Gregg D. Larson, Ali C. Gurbuz, and
James H. McClellan; and "Performance Comparison of Frequency Domain Quadrupole and
Dipole Electromagnetic Induction Sensors in a Landmine Detection Application," Eric B. Fails,
Peter A. Torrione. Waymond R. Scott, Jr., and Leslie M. Collins.
                                                  -5-

         [030]    Figs. 5A and 5B are a top perspective view, and a close up perspective view,
respectively, of an assembled metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation.
Referring to Figs. 5A and 5B, a head assembly is shown, illustrating a top cover 110, the top of
the transmit coil form 120, as well as external wiring components 504 to electrically connect the
MD head to metal detecting circuitry and/or processing components. Such wiring components
504 are, in turn, coupled to the head assembly at coupling points 508, which can be
external/visible connections, as shown, or formed in-line with the various MD head elements.
Regardless of the various head or housing structure(s) employed, the transmit and receive coils
of the head will be electrically and/or mechanically connected, either directly to each other or to
another component or the housing, e.g., via the electrical connections 504/508, mechanical
connections (not shown), etc.
         [031]    The assembled metal detector head can also include non-magnetic shielding
positioned between the transmit/receive coils and the external environment to stabilize and
provide a fixed capacitance between the shielding and the coils, such that changes in capacitance
caused by objects in the surrounding environment are reduced.
         [032]    The close up view of Fig. 5B also illustrates and assembled MD head with a top
cover 110 having shielding 512 applied to an inner surface of the top cover 110. Therefore, only
an edge of shielding 512 can be seen in Fig. 5B.
         [033]    Fig. 6 is a perspective view showing mesh shielding on the bottom side of a
bottom cover 140 of a metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation. Referring to
Fig. 6, shielding 620 on the bottom side of the bottom cover 140 of a MD head is shown. In
general, the shielding 512 and 620 comprise a non-magnetic metal. The shielding can also be
fabricated and/or configured in such a way to reduce eddy and loop currents, which generate
magnetic fields opposing and therefore reducing the desired field. In one implementation,
discussed throughout this disclosure, such shielding may be a woven metal mesh, such as screen
materials, formed of non-magnetic metal, such as copper or brass. The shielding can also
comprises other nonmagnetic metal materials, such as metal films deposited on flexible
substrates, metal wiring patterns formed on thin substrates such as printed circuit boards, or
other thin film materials known in the art, some of which are discussed elsewhere herein. For
shielding comprised of metal film deposited on substrates, such substrates can be flexible
substrates such as polyester or polyimide. For shielding comprised of wiring patterns, the wiring
can be formed/etched/fabricated in manners consistent with existing printed circuit board (PCB)
construction. All such metal films would be some non-magnetic metal, such as aluminum or
copper. Further, such metal screens or films can be fabricated or placed to prevent current loops
from forming in the shielding. For example, for shielding comprised of metal mesh or screen,
the shielding can be configured with one or more gaps to prevent such loop or eddy currents
                                                 -6-

from forming within the mesh. In one exemplary implementation, such gaps may be between
about 1/16 to about 1/4 inch wide, about 1/8 inch wide, or of other width determined as small as
practical, with no conduction occurring across the gap, but not so large the capacitance
stabilizing goal is not met. In the implementation shown in Fig. 6, for example, gaps 628 in the
shielding on the bottom cover can be located on one edge of the bottom cover where a central
strip 626 abuts the strip that encircles the outer periphery of the bottom cover, and another gap
624 may be located at or near corners of the bottom cover, between the strips running along the
outer periphery and regions of shielding located at the comers. The gaps can be located in such a
way that all areas of the shield are connected electrically to all other areas, but without
introducing any closed loops. The complete, flexible shielded structure 512 and 620 can be made
physically stable with stable internal capacitance, by embedding the flexible shield 512 and 620
in a glue, resin or other bonding material. For example, the glue, resin or bonding material can
bond the shield to the coils and structure. When it hardens or cures, the final structure can be
physically stable. In some exemplary implementations, the bonding material can be a resin, such
as a thermoset plastic, a thermoplastic softened sufficiently with solvent, etc.
         [034]    Fig. 7 is a schematic representation of an assembled metal detector head from
the bottom with shielding that is substantially covered by planar elements according to a
disclosed implementation. Fig. 7 illustrates, for example, an assembled MD head showing the
shielded bottom cover 140 shown in Fig. 6 wherein the shielding 620 has been bonded to the
bottom cover 140 and further with planar protective elements 810 bonded over the top of most of
the shielding 620. An outside, bottom edge of the top cover 110 is shown extended down around
the edges of the assemble MD head. Additionally, a portion of exposed shielding 512 can be
seen sandwiched between the edge of the top cover 110 and the abutting portion of the bottom
cover.
         [035]    Fig. 8 is a schematic representation of a close up view of the bottom cover 140
shown in Fig. 7, showing an exposed portion 830 of mesh shielding 620 and bonding material
840, according to a disclosed implementation. Here, the exposed portion 830 is shown
embedded in a glue, resin or other bonding material 840. The same approach can be employed
for shielding 512. In other implementations, the shielding 512 and/or 620 can be bonded to
surfaces of the apparatus to which it is applied using a solvent that at least partially dissolves an
outer layer of the surfaces to embed the shielding in a unitary structural relationship with the
surfaces of the apparatus as the solvent evaporates. Additionally, the shielding 512 and/or 620
can be perforated such that resin etc. used to bond the shielding to the apparatus structure may
flow through and around the shielding to improve adhesion between the resin, apparatus and
shielding. Here, for example, in implementations where non-metal portions of the apparatus are
constructed of fiberglass, the shielding can be bonded to the fiberglass via a resin that is an
                                                  -7-

epoxy compatible with the fiberglass' structural resin. In like manner, in implementations where
non-metal portions of the apparatus are formed of a thermoplastic material, the shielding can be
bonded to the thermoplastic via a resin that is a thermoplastic resin compatible with the
thermoplastic material. Here, for example, the thermoplastic material can be or can include
acrylic-butadiene-styrene (ABS) plastic or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and the resin can be
acrylic-butadiene-styrene (ABS). Further, the PVC material and the ABS resin may be solvent
welded together with chloromethane or a hydrofuran. Implementations include ABS
thermoplastic softened with solvent, allowing the metal shield to be embedded within. When the
solvent evaporates, the shield can be securely held in place by the rigid ABS plastic. Such
innovations provide devices of critical lightweight nature, with unexpectedly good capacitance
characteristics. Finally, a layer of planar elements can also be applied over areas of the shielding
while the resin/solvent is active, wherein the planar elements are formed of a material reactive to
the resin/solvent such that at least an outer layer of the planar elements dissolves and the planar
elements solidify into unitary structural relation with the shielding.
        [036]     A method for manufacturing a shielded metal detector head can comprise
placing non-magnetic shielding on at least one cover or housing associated with the head, in
strips positioned to lie adjacent to wiring of one or more coils, bonding the shielding to the cover
using a resin that, upon curing, secures the shielding together with the at least one cover, and
assembling the head elements within the housing. In one implementation, assembly of the head
elements can include: positioning one or more receive coil forms, upon which receive coil
wiring is wound, on top of the bottom cover, with the receive coil wiring being aligned directly
above the strips of shielding on the bottom cover; positioning a transmit coil form, upon which
transmit coil wiring is wound, on top of the one or more receive coil forms; and securing the
receive coils forms and the transmit coil form, which can be made of non-magnetic, non
conductive materials, within the housing; wherein the transmit coil is positioned in spaced
relation with respect to the receive coils and the shielding is configured/positioned to provide a
fixed capacitance between the shielding and the coils, such that the metal detector head is
insulated from changes in capacitance caused by objects in the surrounding environment.
        [037]     Fig. 9 is a schematic representation illustrating shielding comprised of printed
wiring patterns on a bottom cover of a metal detector head according to a disclosed
implementation. Fig. 9 illustrates a bottom cover 140 with regions of shielding thereon similar to
Fig. 6, wherein the shielding is comprised of metal wiring patterns 908 formed on thin substrates
such as printed circuit boards, metal films deposited on flexible substrates, or other thin film
materials known in the art. When the shielding comprises metal film deposited on substrates,
such substrates can be flexible substrates such as polyester or polyimide. For shielding
comprised of wiring patterns, the wiring can be formed/etched/fabricated in manners consistent
                                                  -8-

with existing printed circuit board (PCB) construction. The wiring patterns can include fingers
and/or interdigitated traces. Further, such wiring patterns can be placed in a geometric
arrangement configured to provide a fixed electric field (capacitance) between the coils and the
shielding. As such, the wiring patterns can electromagnetically shield the electric fields
associated with the coils from undesired capacitive effects caused by external conductive
objects. Such metal traces or films can also be fabricated or placed to prevent current loops from
forming in the shielding, which would generate opposing magnetic fields, reducing the desired
field. Here, for example, circuit wiring can be printed in geometric arrangement wherein no
current eddies/loops will form. A similar shielding structure may be applied to the inside of the
top cover 110 adjacent transmit coil 310.
         [038]    Fig. 10 is a schematic representation of wiring patterns of shielding comprised
of printed wiring 908 according to a disclosed implementation. Referring to Fig. 10, shielding
including wiring and/or areas of conductive traces 908 can be placed around the coils to achieve
the capacitive benefits consistent with aspects of the innovations herein. This shielding can
include regions of parallel wiring or traces 908 and open or gap regions 1040, that work together
to set a constant or fixed capacitance between the shielding and the coils, such that changes in
capacitance caused by objects in the surrounding environment are reduced. End areas 1044 are
for the convenience of electrically connecting adjacent tiles together, such as with solder and
connectors (e.g., jumper wires, etc.).
         [039]    In some embodiments, to minimize eddy current formation, the parallel traces
908 can be fabricated having widths 1048 as narrow as possible for the materials used. To
minimize the effects of objects in the surrounding environment, the spacing 1046 between the
traces 1040 can also be fabricated with widths that are as small as possible for the materials
used. By way of example, trace and space size may be 0.015 inch for certain embodiments, and
current PCB technology may allow the trace and space size to be as small as 0.01 inch (0.254
mm) for an appropriate copper foil thickness. In some implementations, such spacing may be in
the range of 0.005 - 0.015 inches, 0.01 - 0.02 inches, 0.005 - 0.025 inches, or in ranges of about
such values. Additionally, to be flexible enough to conform to any unevenness of the MD and to
ensure good adhesion of the bonding glue, the PCB substrate may also be formed as a thin layer.
Here, e.g., for typical fiberglass substrate materials, such thicknesses may be about 0.01 - 0.1
inch or about 0.01 - 0.04 inch, with one illustrative thickness being on the order of 0.02 inch
(0.508 mm). Furthermore, trace/space patterns may be printed in a variety of other patterns
beyond the simple set of straight, orthogonal parallel lines shown by way of illustration in Fig.
10. As such, devices herein may be implemented using other patterns, as long as there are no
loops. For example, patterns of straight lines like branches of a tree may be used, or the branches
may be patterns of parallel curved lines.
                                                 -9-

         [040]    Fig. 11 is a schematic representation illustrating shielding on a rectangular
cuboid metal detector head according to a disclosed implementation. In contrast, Figs. 1-9 show
aspects of illustrative devices having complex, curved shapes. However, if the outer head
structure is more straightforward, e.g. a simple rectangular cuboid shape, simple tiles such as flat
rectangular tiles can be used to cover the structure and form the shield. One such representative
head structure 1110 is shown in Fig. 11 by way of illustration. Here, for example, these tiles can
be one-sided PCBs constructed consistent with the disclosure of Fig. 10, above. Referring to Fig.
 11, a metal detector head element 1110 is shown, in which such tiles 1000 can be applied and
electrically coupled via end areas 1044.
         [041]     Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art
from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is
intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true scope
and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
         [042]     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
         [043]     It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                    - 10 -

 CLAIM:
         1.      A metal detector head comprising:
         a transmit-receive coil assembly; and
         shielding positioned between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an external
environment;
         wherein the transmit-receive coil assembly comprises at least one receive coil and at least
one transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in spaced relation with the receive coil;
         wherein the shielding is configured to be flexible, conductive, and non-magnetic;
         wherein the shielding is configured to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the
at least one receive coil and the at least one transmit coil; and
         wherein the shielding is configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head from
changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
         2.      The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one coil form of the coil form
set: a receive coil form and a transmit coil form;
         wherein the transmit coil form is configured such that transmit coil wire can be wound
around the transmit coil form;
         wherein the receive coil form is configured such that receive coil wire can be wound
around the receive coil form; and
         wherein the at least one form of the form set consists of material that is non-magnetic and
non-conductive.
         3.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shielding comprises a woven metal mesh.
         4.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shielding is bonded to a surface of the
metal detector head using a glue.
         5.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shielding is bonded to a surface of the
metal detector head using a solvent, wherein the solvent is configured to at least partially
dissolve an outer layer of the surface, and wherein the solvent is configured to solidify so as to
bond the shielding and the surface into a unitary structure.
         6.      The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a plurality of planar elements
arranged in a layer, wherein the plurality of planar elements are configured to be applied over
areas of the shielding while the solvent is active, wherein each planar element of the plurality of
planar elements comprise material reactive to the solvent such that at least an outer layer of each
of the plurality of planar elements dissolves, and wherein the plurality of planar elements are
configured to bond with the solidified solvent and the shielding in the unitary structure.
         7.      The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shielding is configured with a plurality of
gaps to eliminate closed loops in the shielding.
                                                  - 11 -

         8.     The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the metallic mesh is configured with at least
one gap to eliminate closed loops in the mesh.
         9.     The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a bottom cover;
         wherein the shielding is positioned on the bottom cover underneath the transmit-receive
coil assembly such that the shielding is positioned along the outer periphery of the bottom cover;
and
         wherein the shielding comprises a central strip running down a central portion of the
bottom cover, underneath the at least one receive coil.
         10.    The apparatus of claim 7 wherein each gap in the plurality of gaps is configured
to exhibit a width in a range between about 1/16 inch to about 1/4 inch.
         11.    The apparatus of claim 8,
         wherein the shielding is positioned around an outer periphery of the metal detector head
and along a central portion of the metal detector head; and
         wherein the at least one gap is located in the central portion and in the outer periphery.
         12.    The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of planar elements, the
plurality of planar elements arranged in a layer and configured to be applied over areas of the
shielding.
         13.    The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shielding comprises a metal film deposited
on a substrate.
         14.    The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the substrate comprises at least one of the set
of: a flexible material, a polyester, and a polyimide.
         15.    The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shielding comprises a metalized plastic
film.
         16.    The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shielding is perforated such that resin used
to bond the shielding to the metal detector head can flow through and around the shielding to
facilitate adhesion between the resin, the metal detector head, and the shielding.
         17.    The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the shielding is perforated such that resin used
to bond the shielding to the metal detector head can flow through and around the shielding to
facilitate adhesion between the resin, the metal detector head, and the shielding.
         18.    The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one non-metal portion of the metal
detector head comprises fiberglass, wherein the shielding is bonded to the fiberglass using a
resin, and wherein the resin comprises an epoxy compatible with structural resin of the
fiberglass.
         19.    The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one non-metal portion of the metal
detector head comprises a thermoplastic material, wherein the shielding is bonded to the
                                                 - 12 -

thermoplastic using a resin, and wherein the resin comprises a thermoplastic resin compatible
with the thermoplastic material.
         20.     The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the thermoplastic material comprises a
polyvinyl chloride material, and wherein the resin comprises an acrylic-butadiene-styrene resin.
         21.     The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the polyvinyl chloride material and the
acrylic-butadiene-styrene resin are solvent-welded together with at least one of: chloromethane
and hydro-furan.
         22.     The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one non-metal portion of the metal
detector head comprises plastic.
         23.     The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the plastic comprises acrylic-butadiene
styrene plastic.
         24.     The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising at least one receive coil form
stiffener configured to be placed inside the at least one receive coil form to provide a rigid,
lightweight receive coil.
         25.     The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the at least one receive coil form stiffener
comprises portions to provide stiffness, and wherein the portions to provide stiffness comprises
at least a portion of the set of: a ribbed portion and a corrugated portion.
         26.     The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one receive coil comprises at least
two loops wound in opposite directions.
         27.     The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising at least one transmit coil form
stiffener configured to be placed inside the at least one transmit coil form to provide a rigid,
lightweight transmit coil.
         28.     The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the at least one transmit coil form stiffener
comprises portions to provide stiffness, and wherein the portions to provide stiffness comprises
at least a portion of the set of: a ribbed portion and a corrugated portion.
         29.     The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one receive coil is in a quadrupole
configuration, and the at least one transmit coil is in a dipole configuration.
         30.     The apparatus of claim 7 wherein each gap of the plurality of gaps is configured
to exhibit a width greater than a first distance at which conduction occurs across the gap, and
less than a second distance above which stabilization of capacitance associated with the transmit
coil and the receive coil is not achieved.
         31.     The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the plurality of gaps are configured such that all
areas of the shielding are connected electrically to all other areas, without introducing any closed
loops.
         32.     A metal detector head comprising:
         a transmit-receive coil assembly; and
                                                  - 13 -

         shielding comprising at least one wiring pattern formed on at least one printed circuit
board;
         wherein the transmit-receive coil assembly comprises at least one receive coil and at least
one transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in spaced relation with the receive coil;
         wherein the shielding is positioned between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an
external environment;
         wherein the shielding is configured to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the
at least one receive coil and the at least one transmit coil; and
         wherein the shielding is configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head from
changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
         33.     The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the at least one wiring pattern comprises at
least one of: fingers and interdigitated traces.
         34.     The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the at least one wiring pattern is placed in a
geometric arrangement, the geometric arrangement configured to provide a fixed electric field
between the at least one wiring pattern and the at least one receive coil and the at least one
transmit coil.
         35.     The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the at least one wiring pattern is placed in a
geometric arrangement wherein no current eddies and no current loops form in the shielding.
         36.     The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the wiring pattern includes tracings with
spacing therebetween, wherein a width size of at least one of the tracings and the spacing
therebetween is one of: between about 0.005 inch and 0.015 inch, between about 0.01 inch and
0.02 inch, between about 0.005 inch and 0.025 inch, about 0.01 inch, and about 0.015 inch.
         37.     The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the printed circuit board has a thickness, the
thickness being one of: between about 0.01 inch and 0.1 inch, between about 0.01 inch and 0.04
inch, and about 0.02 inch.
         38.     The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the wiring pattern is arranged in parallel
curved lines.
         39.     A method for manufacturing a shielded metal detector head, the method
comprising:
         assembling a metal detector head including a housing having a transmit-receive coil
assembly, the transmit-receive coil assembly comprising at least one receive coil and at least one
transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in spaced relation with the receive coil; and
         placing shielding between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an external
environment to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the at least one receive coil and
at least one transmit coil;
         wherein the shielding is configured to be flexible, conductive, and non-magnetic; and
                                                  - 14 -

         wherein the shielding is configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head from
changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
         40.     The method of claim 39 further comprising placing the shielding on at least one
cover of the housing configured to hold elements of the metal detector head, wherein the
shielding comprises strips, the strips positioned to lie between the transmit-receive coil assembly
and the external environment.
         41.     The method of claim 39 further comprising bonding the shielding to at least one
metal detector head component using a resin that, upon curing, is configured to secure the
shielding together with the component.
         42.     The method of claim 39 wherein the assembling of the metal detector head
comprises:
         positioning at least one receive coil form, upon which receive coil wiring is wound, on
top of a bottom cover, with the receive coil configured to be aligned directly above the strips of
shielding;
         positioning a transmit coil form, upon which transmit coil wiring is wound, on top of the
at least one receive coil form; and
         securing the at least one receive coil form and the transmit coil form within the housing;
         wherein the at least one receive coil form and the transmit coil form comprise
nonmagnetic material and non-conductive material.
         43.     The method of claim 42 wherein the assembling comprises:
         placing at least one receive coil form stiffener inside the at least one receive coil form to
provide support and to provide stiffness for the at least one receive coil.
         44.     The method of claim 41 further comprising:
         placing a plurality of planar elements over areas of the shielding while the resin is
uncured;
         wherein the plurality of planar elements are arranged in a layer; and
         wherein the planar elements are formed of a material reactive to the resin such that at
least one planar element of the plurality of planar elements bonds with the shielding and the
bottom cover.
         45.     The method of claim 39 wherein the placing comprises placing the shielding
around an outer periphery of a bottom cover.
         46.     The method of claim 39 wherein the placing comprises reducing capacitance
changes between the a transmit-receive coil assembly and the external environment by placing
shielding in regions above and in regions around the at least one transmit coil, wherein the
shielding is configured to surround the at least one transmit coil at a top cover and beneath the at
least one receive coil on a bottom cover.
                                                  - 15 -

         47.    The method of claim 39 wherein the shielding is configured with a plurality of
gaps to eliminate closed loops in the shielding.
         48.    The method of claim 47 wherein each gap in the plurality of gaps is configured to
exhibit a width in a range between about 1/16 inch to about 1/4 inch.
         49.    The method of claim 47 wherein:
         wherein the shielding is positioned around an outer periphery of the metal detector head
and along a central portion of the metal detector head; and
         wherein the at least one gap is located in the central portion and in the outer periphery.
         50.    The method of claim 39 further comprising applying a plurality of planar
elements in a layer over areas of the shielding.
         51.    The method of claim 39 wherein the shielding comprises a metal film deposited
on a substrate.
         52.    The method of claim 51 wherein the substrate comprises at least one of the set of:
a flexible material, a polyester, and a polyimide.
         53.    The method of claim 39 wherein the shielding comprises a metalized plastic film.
         54.    The method of claim 39 wherein the shielding is perforated such that resin used
to bond the shielding to the metal detector head can flow through and around the shielding to
facilitate adhesion between the resin, the metal detector head, and the shielding.
         55.    The method of claim 39 wherein at least one non-metal portion of the metal
detector head comprises fiberglass, wherein the shielding is bonded to the fiberglass using a
resin, and wherein the resin comprises an epoxy compatible with structural resin of the
fiberglass.
         56.    The method of claim 39 wherein at least one non-metal portion of the metal
detector head comprises a thermoplastic material, wherein the shielding is bonded to the
thermoplastic using a resin, and wherein the resin comprises a thermoplastic resin compatible
with the thermoplastic material.
         57.    The method of claim 56 wherein the thermoplastic material comprises a polyvinyl
chloride material and the resin comprises an acrylic-butadiene-styrene resin.
         58.    The method of claim 57 wherein the polyvinyl chloride material and the acrylic
butadiene-styrene resin are solvent-welded together with at least one of chloromethane and
hydro-furan.
         59.    The method of claim 39 wherein at least one non-metal portion of the metal
detector head comprises plastic.
         60.    The method of claim 59 wherein the plastic comprises acrylic-butadiene-styrene
plastic.
                                                 - 16 -

        61.     The method of claim 39 further comprising placing at least one receive coil form
stiffener inside the at least one receive coil form to provide a rigid, lightweight receive coil.
         62.     The method of claim 61 wherein the at least one receive coil form stiffener
includes ribbed or corrugated portions to provide additional stiffness.
         63.     The method of claim 39 wherein the at least one receive coil includes at least two
loops wound in opposite directions.
         64.     The method of claim 39 further comprising at least one transmit coil form
stiffener placed inside the at least one transmit coil form to provide a rigid, lightweight transmit
coil.
         65.     The method of claim 64 wherein the at least one receive coil form stiffener
comprises portions to provide additional stiffness, and wherein the portions to provide additional
stiffness comprises at least a portion of the set of: a ribbed portion and a corrugated portion.
         66.     The method of claim 39 wherein the at least one receive coil is in a quadrupole
configuration, and the at least one transmit coil is in a dipole configuration.
         67.     The method of claim 47 wherein each gap of the plurality of gaps is configured to
exhibit a width greater than a first distance at which conduction occurs across the gap, and less
than a second distance above which stabilization of capacitance associated with the transmit coil
and the receive coil is not achieved.
         68.     The method of claim 47 wherein the plurality of gaps are configured such that all
areas of the shielding are connected electrically to all other areas, without introducing any closed
loops.
         69.    A method for manufacturing a shielded metal detector head, the method
comprising:
         assembling a metal detector head including a housing having a transmit-receive coil
assembly, the transmit-receive coil assembly comprising at least one receive coil and at least one
transmit coil, the transmit coil positioned in spaced relation with the receive coil; and
        placing shielding between the transmit-receive coil assembly and an external
environment;
        wherein the shielding comprises wiring patterns formed on at least one printed circuit
board;
        wherein the shielding is fixed between the transmit-receive coil assembly and the
external environment to stabilize capacitance between the shielding and the at least one receive
coil and at least one transmit coil;
        wherein the shielding is configured to reduce effect on the metal detector head from
changing capacitance caused by objects in the external environment.
                                                  - 17 -

        70.     The method of claim 69 wherein the at least one wiring pattern comprises at least
one of the set of: fingers and interdigitated traces.
        71.     The method of claim 69 wherein the at least one wiring pattern is placed in a
geometric arrangement, the geometric arrangement configured to provide a fixed electric field
between the at least one wiring pattern and the at least one receive coil and the at least one
transmit coil.
        72.     The method of claim 69 wherein the at least one wiring pattern is placed in a
geometric arrangement wherein no current eddies and no current loops form in the shielding.
        73.     The method of claim 69 wherein the wiring pattern includes tracings with spacing
therebetween, wherein a width size of at least one of the tracings and the spacing therebetween is
one of: between about 0.005 inch and 0.015 inch, between about 0.01 inch and 0.02 inch,
between about 0.005 inch and 0.025 inch, about 0.01 inch, and about 0.015 inch.
        74.     The method of claim 69 wherein the printed circuit board has a thickness, the
thickness being one of: between about 0.01 inch and 0.1 inch, between about 0.01 inch and 0.04
inch, and about 0.02 inch.
        75.     The method of claim 69 wherein the wiring pattern is arranged in parallel curved
lines.
                                                 - 18 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
